

1 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Upscale Neighborhoods 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
John Tierney (Big City column, March 26) downplays a fundamental point made by a report on gentrification recently released by the Citizens Housing and Planning Council. The report says "the data indicate that rent stabilization is quite effective in restraining rent increases in gentrifying neighborhoods, thus weakening the link between gentrification and secondary displacement." 
 The report goes on to say that the re-urbanization of the middle class harms the interests of the poor by "gradually shrinking the pool of low-rent housing." 
 Is this not precisely what opponents of gentrification claim? Rather than suggesting that a rising tide lifts all residents, Mr. Tierney should have credited rent stabilization for moderating gentrification-induced displacement of the poor.

OLIVER COOKE
New York, March 27, 2002

The writer is research associate, Fiscal Policy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); URBANIZATION (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) HOUSING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; RENTING AND LEASING 

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (88%) COOKE, OLIVER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



2 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: A Novelist Who Writes For Himself 

BYLINE:  By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
 For 14 years before he became a successful novelist, Jasper Fforde worked in the movies, not as a writer but as an assistant cameraman. On films like "Quills," "Goldeneye" and "The Mask of Zorro," he was a focus puller, standing behind -- or rather to the side of -- the camera, setting the distance between lens and star. But when he was not on the set, he would write. 
 "I would work on a film for six months, and then take as long as I could off, conserving my money and writing," Mr. Fforde, 41, said recently. "I started with short stories, to try to teach myself how to do it better. The stories got longer and longer and became a novel. And one novel became four. But no one wanted to publish them. I didn't know whether I was ever going to get any of my books published." 
His fifth novel, though, was "The Eyre Affair," and it was his breakthrough. A combination of fantasy, comedy, science fiction, Douglas Adams, Kurt Vonnegut, Lewis Carroll, Monty Python and even "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," it is set in England in 1985 in an alternate universe where the Crimean War has been raging for more than 130 years, dodos are pets, there are no jets, people can travel into and out of famous novels, high literature is mass culture, devotees of John Milton change their names to his, and the public is obsessed with the question of who wrote Shakespeare's plays.
The prime character is a female literary detective called Thursday Next -- so named because Mr. Fforde's mother would always describe the Thursday to come as "Thursday Next" -- who with her partner, Bowden Cable, pursues an arch villain, Acheron Hades, who has kidnapped Jane Eyre from the pages of the Charlotte Bronte novel. Without its first-person narrator, all pages in all copies of "Jane Eyre" turn blank.
A critical and popular success in Mr. Fforde's native Britain, "The Eyre Affair" was recently published in the United States by Viking and was on the New York Times best-seller list on March 10. Michiko Kakutani in The Times said that after a slow beginning, Mr. Fforde finds "his own exuberant voice" and immerses the reader in "a distinctive and entertaining fictional world."
Sitting in a conference room in his publisher's office in downtown Manhattan in work shirt and jeans, Mr. Fforde, blue-eyed and youthful, still has the appearance of a jovial assistant cameraman rather than a successful author. It's as if his best-sellerdom is too new to have become part of him. 
His sudden change in fortune, he said, can be attributed directly to his experience of failure. "After those first books I really felt I could write whatever I wanted, because it wasn't going to be published anyway," he said. "So I wrote 'The Eyre Affair' basically for myself."
He began, he said, with the premise that there would be two literary detectives and that Jane Eyre would be kidnapped. 
"I used 'Jane Eyre' not only because it's been a firm favorite of mine for a long time but because she is such a wonderful heroine," he said. "She broke the mold of female heroines. I of course immediately realized that this story couldn't exist in our world, so rather than change the plot to fit our world, I thought I would change the world to fit the plot." 
To create that world, Mr. Fforde said, he relied on his great interest in "stuff." 
"I love facts, and whenever I see something interesting I like to use it," he said. "I take little bits from here and there and mix them together, make them interlock like a jigsaw puzzle, try to weave the strands together in a logic that could be understood. 
"I had been reading a book about the Crimean War, and I thought, why not use it? Why not say that it's this long, attritional war and weave that into a political theme involving England, and see where that takes me. And then I had to make the war fit in with the kidnapping of Jane Eyre. I like to start with a small idea and build on it. It's ideas begetting ideas."
The character of Thursday Next came about, Mr. Fforde said, in part "because I think it's more fun to write about girls than it is to write about boys." 
Critics have called his female detective a mix of Bridget Jones, Nancy Drew and Dirty Harry. "She's a feisty heroine like Jane Eyre, who is very strong at times but also a bit weak romantically," Mr. Fforde said. "Where does she come from? I suppose we writers make up characters we would like to know or be in love with or have love us."
Mr. Fforde was born in London in an upper-middle-class family, his father an economist, his mother a voracious reader who did charity work. "There were always tons of books around the house," he said. "My mother still gets through three books a week."
The first book he remembers borrowing from the library was, appropriately, "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland." "I still have a copy," he said. At 11 he was packed off to boarding school in Devon in southwest England, and at 18 he left school to try to get a job in the film industry. 
"From the time I was 10 or 11 I wanted to be in films," he said. "So going on to higher education didn't hold any interest for me at all. It was slowing me down."
After two years of trying, he got his first film job, in the early 80's on the set of "The Pirates of Penzance" with Kevin Kline, Angela Lansbury and Linda Ronstadt. "I made tea and coffee," he said. He slowly moved into camera work. And then between films in the mid-80's, he decided to learn to fly.
"Perhaps that's what led to my writing," he said. "Flying was something I had always wanted to do, even before I wanted to work in films. It's a great achievement. You are thousands of feet above the earth in command on your own in an aircraft. Maybe that's what made me realize that you can really do whatever you set your heart on. When you're 18 or 20 you don't always have a huge amount of confidence. You think that writing might be too difficult a career to pursue. I think the writing started because I finally realized I could do it."
Mr. Fforde lives in Wales with his companion, Mari Roberts, and when he's not writing, he spends his time flying above the Welsh countryside in his 1937 DeHavilland biplane. He maintains a Web site for "Eyre Affair" fans, JasperFforde.com. But writing is his focus. The second Thursday Next novel, "Lost in a Good Book," is to be published in Britain in July, and he is under contract for two more. 
Naturally, he said, there is pressure now from his publisher and from within to keep up the success and to write more quickly. 
"I have deadlines, which I didn't have before," he said. " 'The Eyre Affair' took six years to write. 'Lost in a Good Book' took a year. I used to have the leisure to rewrite again and again. Now I can't do that. And I know I will ultimately be annoyed that I couldn't write for another year before the next book was ready. But I'm just going to have to plug that into the equation and get on with it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jasper Fforde, a cameraman's aide turned best-selling writer. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (95%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (74%); BESTSELLERS (73%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: FFORDE, JASPER; ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (75%)

TITLE: EYRE AFFAIR, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



3 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Russia Pledges to Lift Ban On U.S. Poultry by April 10
Russia agreed to lift its ban on American poultry products by April 10, to end a three-week trade dispute that has cramped relations between the two countries.
 The Agriculture Ministry halted imports of American poultry on March 10, citing concerns over the use of chemicals and antibiotics by farmers. Russia imposed the ban at the same time as the Bush administration adopted punitive steel duties that hurt some Russian steel exports. Page C2. 

Game-Design Courses Gain Favor
The Rochester Institute of Technology has just started the first master's-level program in computer game design. Andrew M. Phelps, left, an instructor at the institute conducts a game-programming class. The institute estimates that the $20 billion computer game industry will grow to a $100 billion-a-year business within a decade. C4.

Swiss Airline Takes Its First Flight
Switzerland's new airline, Swiss, took to the skies, replacing Swissair, the 71-year-old flag carrier that went bankrupt. The new entity is a a merger of the remnants of Swissair and its former regional subsidiary, Crossair. C3.

Trademark Applications Drop 23%
After rising steadily for a decade, the number of trademark applications fell 23 percent last year and appears to be declining so far this year, according to the publishers of a closely watched report on trademark trends. C2.

Magazines Push Images Over Words
As more magazines default to a visual rather than literary palette, the 4,000-word article has become a relic, first replaced by the 800-word quick take, then further boiled down to a 400-word blurb that is little more than a caption on steroids. In most magazines today, words are increasingly beside the point, mere graphic elements that are generally used to frame pictures. Magazines. C8.

Mexico Fights Pirating of Music
Mexican authorities are staging more raids in Tepito, a poor and dangerous neighborhood in Mexico City, which has one of the world's highest concentrations of illegal merchandise. Mexico has become the third-largest market for copied music, after China and Russia. C5.

Mars Revamps Ads for Milky Way
Mars, the confectionery giant that makes Milky Way, is revamping the brand's advertising in most markets around the world to promote the candy bar as one of life's small delights. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C9.

A Power Shift in Technology
The humbling fall to earth of the high-technology industry over the last year and a half has shifted the balance of power from sellers to buyers. In the industry, the notion of "putting the customer first," given cynical lip service in the past, is now regarded as deep wisdom. Chief information officers of old-line companies are now the ones in control. New Economy. C4.

U.S. Financial Markets Reopen
Financial markets in the United States, which were closed for Good Friday, will reopen today. Most European markets will be closed.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,403.94 DOWN 23.73Nasdaq composite -- 1,845.35 DOWN 6.0410-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.39% -- Unch.The euro -- $0.8708 DOWN 0.0059The dollar -- 132.68 yen DOWN 0.10 Graph: "TODAY" shows the percentage change in construction spending since August 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (91%); TRADEMARKS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MEATS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); STEROIDS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (77%); COMPUTER GAMES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TRADEMARK LAW (71%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MARS INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (75%) MILKY WAY GALAXY (85%); MARS (66%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



4 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 666 words

PERSON: R. V. Cassill 

HEADLINE: R.V. Cassill, Novelist and Writing Teacher, Dies at 82 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:
R. V. Cassill, the man of letters who was a novelist, short-story writer, editor, book reviewer and teacher of creative writing, died last Monday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 82 and lived in Providence and Truro, Mass.
 The author of 24 novels and 7 collections of short stories, Mr. Cassill began writing in his teens and published his first story, "To the Clear Mountains," in a little magazine in 1939, when he was 19. Among his novels were "Eagle on the Coin" (1950), about racial equality; "Clem Anderson" (1961), about a failed writer; "Dr. Cobb's Game" (1970), about the Profumo sex scandals that rocked Britain in the early 1960's; and "After Goliath" (1985), about King David of the the Old Testament. 
 Reviewing "Dr. Cobb's Game" in The New York Times, John Leonard wrote, "R. V. Cassill's fiction has always been unclassifiable, as omnivorous and idiosyncratic as Mailer's, examining the relations between public life and private obsession, between the institution and the individual, between -- in this instance -- power and sex."
After 1985, Mr. Cassill gave up writing fiction because, as he told James White, one of his publishers, in an interview for the American Center for Artists Web site, "I think it's a gift I've used up."
Mr. Cassill was equally respected as a short-story writer. Reviewing his 650-page "Collected Stories" for The Times Book Review in 1989, Frank Wilson wrote, "Just about every story in this collection is a textbook example of what a piece of short fiction ought to be: immediately engaging, swiftly paced, economical." For his skill in this medium, Mr. Cassill was chosen to edit two widely used college textbooks, the Norton Anthology of Short Fiction (1977) and the Norton Anthology of Contemporary Fiction (2nd edition, 1989).
But it was as a writing teacher that Mr. Cassill won some of his most devoted followers, many of whom were subsequently published. His textbook "On Writing" was widely used. In it he wrote: "Writing is a way of coming to terms with the world and with oneself. The whole spirit of writing is to overcome narrowness and fear by giving order, measure, and significance to the flux of experience constantly dinning into our lives."
Ronald Verlin Cassill, known as Verlin by his friends, was born in Cedar Falls, Iowa, on May 17, 1919, one of four children of Howard, a school superintendent and principal, and Mary E. (Glosser) Cassill, a teacher. After graduating with a B.A. from the University of Iowa in 1939, he was in the United States Army from 1942 to 1946, serving in the South Pacific with the rank of first lieutenant.
In 1946 he studied at the Art Institute of Chicago, and the following year he received an M.A. at Iowa. He taught at the university's Writers Workshop from 1948 to 1952 and then again from 1960 to 1966.
In the interval he lived in Paris, where he studied art at the Sorbonne, and in New York City, where he mixed with writers like Norman Mailer and Vance Bourjaily, who were associated with the early days of The Village Voice. In 1956 he married Karilyn Kay Adams, a writer. (A previous marriage, to Kathleen Rosecranz, an artist, ended in divorce.) In 1966 he moved to Providence to become a professor at Brown University, where he stayed for the remainder of his career, being named professor emeritus in 1983.
Over the years he also taught writing at Purdue, Columbia, the New School for Social Research and Harvard. His reviews and articles appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Chicago Sun Times, Book World, Esquire, The Atlantic and The Saturday Evening Post. He received a Guggenheim grant, a Rockefeller grant, a Fulbright Fellowship in Paris and an honorary masters degree from Brown University.
In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Orin E., of New York, and Jesse B., of San Diego, and a daughter, Erica Cassill Wood of Saline, Mich.; a brother, H. Carroll, of Cleveland; a sister, LaJean Holstein of Ellsworth, Me.; and seven grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: R. V. Cassill in 1950. (Joseph A. Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CREATIVE WRITING (90%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (76%); SCANDALS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (73%); SEX SCANDALS (69%); ARMIES (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

CASSILL, R V; LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



5 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: In the Northwest, a Fight To Deepen a Ship Channel 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: ASTORIA, Ore., March 27 

 BODY:
Here where the 1,264-mile-long Columbia River comes to a roaring end and empties into the Pacific Ocean, all kinds of vessels navigate the difficult passage, which a local history once aptly described as sometimes "a treacherous barrier" and sometimes "an open gateway" to the sea. 
 At any moment these days, an 800-foot-long ship may pass Astoria loaded with wheat bound for Asia or cars and computers headed toward Portland. At the mouth of the river, a 40-foot-long fishing boat might be headed toward the rich Dungeness crab grounds nearby. 
 But as this tableau of waterborne commerce emerges from the mist and fog here, operators of these vessels are engaged in an increasingly rancorous debate over a simple question: should the mighty river be three feet deeper? 
Yes, say many major shippers and officials at the Port of Portland, who are promoting a $100 million project to dredge 19 million cubic yards of sand and rock from parts of the river from Astoria to Portland, deepening the main shipping channel to 43 feet from 40 feet. That would allow bigger loads to be carried more cheaply along the river, the proponents say, bringing critical economic benefits to one of the most trade-dependent parts of the nation.
"It's a slam-dunk for this region," said Bill Wyatt, executive director of the Port of Portland, the nation's leading wheat port, handling grain exports from as far east as Kansas. "Every day, 40,000 people get up and go to work because the Columbia River is an international seaport, and the deepening project is a very important part of retaining that."
But the plan has opponents, chiefly coastal fishermen, who fear the dredging could harm their fishing grounds, and environmentalists, who say the plan could harm endangered salmon and lead to wider ecological devastation in the delicate tidelands.
"This plan, perhaps, will enrich the Portland metropolitan area and a bunch of shippers," said Peter Huhtala, executive director of the Astoria-based Columbia Deepening Opposition Group, a coalition fighting the project. "But it could demolish some very sensitive habitat, and it could wipe out some fisheries."
Several public reviews of the dredging plan are under way. Proponents insist that the dredged material could be put to beneficial use, perhaps to fill in beaches along the Washington coast that have been subject to erosion over the years.
But that would be more expensive than other options under consideration, including dumping the material along the riverbanks or at sea. Critics say some material may be contaminated and unsuitable for such uses.
Other questions have been raised, perhaps most significantly in an investigative series titled "Digging Deeper" in The Oregonian, the state's largest newspaper.
The newspaper reported that federal studies had erred in concluding that the project would be a net gain for taxpayers. Proponents vigorously dispute the newspaper's finding.
The Army Corps of Engineers issued a study in 1999 estimating that the project would produce about $2.10 in economic benefits for every $1 it cost. But the newspaper said its analysis suggested it would return only about 88 cents on the dollar.
The corps says it has been updating its analysis. The results have not been released, but Col. Randall J. Butler, the Portland district engineer for the agency, said the benefits of deepening still outweighed the costs. 
The plan has the support of legislatures in Oregon and Washington, the states along the parts of the river that would be affected. Each has agreed to contribute $27.7 million to the project, while the federal government would pay the rest. Some smaller port cities along the river also favor the deepening.
The river is routinely dredged to maintain its depth, and the navigation channel, which runs a little more than 100 miles from Portland to the Pacific, has been deepened several times in the last century -- to 25 feet, then 30, then 35, and finally to the current depth of 40 feet.
Each time the argument was that deepening would allow bigger ships to come to port, and shipping did increase. The same reasoning is being used today, though with a twist: in many cases, the issue is not so much the size of the cargo ships. It is that those ships cannot be fully loaded because their draft -- how much of a ship falls below the water line -- would be too deep for the channel.
Jonathan Schlueter, executive vice president of the Pacific Northwest Grain and Feed Association, a trade group in Portland, said the channel deepening could reduce shipping costs by as much as 5.5 cents per bushel (60 pounds are in a bushel of wheat), a critical amount in a business with thin profit margins.
"American farmers and shippers can meet and beat any nation in the world when it comes to supplying high quality grain," he said. "But if we are forced to use smaller ships and antiquated delivery systems, we won't be able to give our competitors a fair fight."
But crabbers and fishermen say the dredging could disrupt their resource enough to drive them out of business -- and perhaps endanger their lives by aggravating ocean swells with the dumping.
"Personally, I think it's criminal what they want to do," said Troy Blix, 32, skipper of the Ida W. II, who has spent all his working years taking Dungeness crab, salmon and tuna out of the waters around Astoria.
A few Astorians have developed a plan to avoid dredging: transform their small town by the sea into a big international port, to let the big ships dock there and to move goods inland or out of the interior via an expanded network of highways, rail lines and river barges.
But with the network of Interstate highways and railways so tied to Portland, 100 miles upriver, the plan seems unlikely.
"Astoria might have been the big port if you were going back, say, 100 years ago, and designing things all over again," said Katy Brooks, a spokeswoman for the Port of Portland. "But that's just not a very feasible idea today." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); FISHES (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); BEACHES (78%); HISTORY (77%); FISHERIES (75%); AGRICULTURE (71%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (71%); TRENDS (71%); EROSION (71%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; DREDGES AND DREDGING; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (95%) OREGON, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) COLUMBIA RIVER (PACIFIC NORTHWEST); NORTHWESTERN STATES (US); PORT OF PORTLAND (ORE)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



6 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Opening Day 2002: Time for Reading Box Scores and Tea Leaves

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The 2002 baseball season started last night. Where it will stop, nobody knows.
 Will it run all the way to its scheduled conclusion, with a possible seventh game of the World Series on Oct. 27, or will it come to a halt prematurely, say, in August, a victim of Major League Baseball's ninth work stoppage in 31 years? Yes, it is that time again. 
 The last time a season began without a labor agreement between the players and the owners, in 1994, it ended Aug. 12, the day the eighth work stoppage began. That one, the fifth strike in 23 years, prompted Bud Selig, then the acting commissioner, to cancel the World Series and ignited a celebration among the owners because they had finally held together. 
The sides are no closer to an agreement today than they were on Aug. 12, 1994. That bit of reality does not bode well for the season.
Selig, now the commissioner, has said the owners will not lock out the players or unilaterally put a new economic system into effect during the season or the postseason. But they could begin that two-pronged labor attack the day after the World Series, and the players, faced with that prospect, could strike pre-emptively and strike, as in 1994.
Talk of revenue sharing and payroll taxes will be as prevalent in the coming months as home runs and saves, not as interesting, perhaps, but as critical to the outcome of the season.
What if the events of 1994 had converged with last season's developments? After games of Aug. 11 last season, Barry Bonds had 50 home runs with 45 games to play. A strike would have ended his pursuit of Mark McGwire's record. Could another pursuit, by Bonds or perhaps Sammy Sosa, be interrupted this season?
While fans await the answer to that question, they may want to focus on more palatable matters. They may want to celebrate the presence of the Minnesota Twins and the Montreal Expos, two teams the owners wanted to kill but that have lived to fight another day.
The Twins, who spent more time in first place last season than the Cleveland Indians (103 days to 84), actually have a chance to rise from the ashes of contraction and win the American League Central. Anyone thinking that the Expos have a similar chance in the National League East is engaging in fantasy.
The Expos were part of an unprecedented ownership shuffle during the winter, when they were sold to Major League Baseball by Jeffrey Loria, who bought the Florida Marlins from John Henry, who was the leader of a group that purchased the Boston Red Sox from the Jean R. Yawkey Trust.
Those transactions were responsible for most of the off-season changes in the positions of general manager and manager. Omar Minaya (Montreal), Larry Beinfest (Florida), Mike Port (Boston), Mark Shapiro (Cleveland), John Hart (Texas) and J. P. Ricciardi (Toronto) are the new general managers. Frank Robinson (Montreal), Jeff Torborg (Florida), Grady Little (Boston), Jimy Williams (Houston) and Ron Gardenhire (Minnesota) are the new managers.
New players are everywhere. That is, players are with new teams. One-fifth of the 150 starting pitchers on the 30 teams have come from other teams.
The Texas Rangers are the epitome of newness. They took 36 pitchers to spring training and have emerged with a season-opening staff of 13, 11 of them new to the team. The only holdovers are two starters, Kenny Rogers and Doug Davis. Newcomers make up the rest of the rotation and the entire relief corps. The Rangers had a major league-high 5.71 earned run average last season.
Besides the Rangers, teams with three new starters are the Mets, Los Angeles, Pittsburgh and Boston. It is a never-ending shuffle in the quest to find pitchers who can give their teams a chance to win. The Atlanta Braves, who have lived on their starting pitchers for a decade, may face that problem one day. Greg Maddux and Tom Glavine, their one-two tandem, can be free agents at the end of this season.
A sizable corps of well-known hitters has changed teams, too. Jason Giambi and Johnny Damon left Oakland, Giambi for the Yankees, Damon for the Red Sox. Robin Ventura has moved from Queens to the Bronx, and Rickey Henderson has taken his newly achieved runs scored and walks records to Boston.
The Mets acquired Mo Vaughn (Anaheim), Roberto Alomar (Cleveland) and Jeromy Burnitz (Milwaukee) in trades. Atlanta acquired Gary Sheffield from Los Angeles to bolster its offense, which was not quite as anemic as the Mets' attack last season.
Moises Alou has joined Sosa in the Chicago Cubs' outfield, and St. Louis has replaced McGwire at first base with Tino Martinez, who is used to replacing icons. He replaced Don Mattingly as the Yankees' first baseman in 1996.
"Donnie was New York," Martinez said, comparing the two tasks. "I was relatively unknown coming to New York. It was a lot tougher back then. Coming into this situation, having had all the experience I've had playing in New York and winning championships, I think I'm coming here to help this team win, not so much worry about what Mark McGwire did here."
McGwire was a home run hitter. Martinez is more the kind of hitter Mattingly was.
"That makes it a lot easier coming in because nobody expects me to do what McGwire did," Martinez said. "They just expect me to be consistent and put up numbers I'm capable of putting up. I don't have to come in and be the man and be the R.B.I. guy. There are so many guys on this team who can drive in 100 runs."
The Cardinals will be one of the teams contending for an N.L. division championship.
The Seattle Mariners will be one of the A.L. contenders. They will also be the first team since the 1906 Cubs to begin a season six months after completing a 116-victory season. The 1907 Cubs won 107 games and the World Series. The Mariners will settle for that.
So will a lot of other teams, even if they themselves do not win. Those developments would at least mean they got to finish the season.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Finishing touches at Fenway Park in Boston. Top right, Cincinnati's Ken Griffey Jr., left, and Adam Dunn. Above right, Yanks' Orlando Hernandez bowling a baseball in Baltimore. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); STRIKES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%) BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%)

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (84%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (67%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (67%) OHIO, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (84%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



7 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: DRUG TRAFFICKING; 
U.S. Fears a Glut of Heroin From a Volatile Afghanistan

BYLINE:  By TIM GOLDEN 

 BODY:
American officials have quietly abandoned their hopes to reduce Afghanistan's opium production substantially this year and are now bracing for a harvest large enough to inundate the world's heroin and opium markets with cheap drugs.
 While American and European officials have debated such measures as paying Afghan opium farmers to plow under their fields, they have concluded that continuing lawlessness and political instability will make eradication all but impossible. 
 Instead, United States officials will pursue a less ambitious strategy: They have begun trying to persuade Afghan leaders to carry out a modest destruction program as opium poppies are harvested over the next two months, if only to show they were serious last January in declaring a ban on production.
The Americans will also encourage destruction of opium-processing laboratories and a crackdown on brokers, while providing funds to strengthen antisumggling activities by neighboring countries. The campaign is being strongly backed and even to some extent led by Britain, which traces nearly all heroin on its streets to Afghanistan. 
But the continuing upheaval in and around Afghanistan will limit the effectiveness of those strategies, American and British officials admit, making it likely that Afghanistan will produce enough opium to dominate the world supply again.
"The fact is, there are no institutions in large parts of the country," the Bush administration's drug policy director, John P. Walters, said in an interview. "What we can do will be extremely limited."
Until leaders of the Taliban banned opium in their last year in power, Afghanistan produced as much as three-fourths of the world's supply, and taxes on the drug trade were an important source of revenue for the Taliban. Now, the profits that flowed to the Taliban's allies are expected to enrich tribal leaders whose support is vital to the American-backed government.
So long as the drug trade flourishes, law-enforcement officials said, it will fuel political rivalries, foster corruption and undermine the authority of the central government. But because opium farming remains one of the few viable economic activities, officials added, any intense eradication effort could imperil the stability of the government and thus hamper the military campaign against the Taliban and Al Qaeda.
"The fight against terrorism takes priority," one British law enforcement official said. "The fight against narcotics comes in second."
The challenge that American and European officials face is compounded by the surprising success the Taliban achieved in banning poppy cultivation two years ago.
That prohibition, which came after several years in which the Taliban quietly encouraged poppy farming, cut opium output from an estimated 4,042 tons in 2000, about 71 percent of the world's supply, to just 82 tons last year, according to the Central Intelligence Agency. What little opium Afghanistan produced in 2001 came almost entirely from the 10 percent of its territory then controlled by the Northern Alliance, the backbone of the new government.
But the decline left many small landowners and sharecroppers deep in debt. In the absence of a credit system, larger landholders customarily loan smaller farmers and laborers food, cooking oil or money for the winter, to be paid back after the harvest of opium gum. The landholders also offer fertilizer and seed in return for a portion of the crop.
Diplomats and relief officials say a considerable number of refugees fleeing into Pakistan were opium farmers who could not pay their debts. But as soon as the Taliban's military resistance began to crumble last fall, many other farmers rushed to plant opium again. 
On Jan. 17, with strong encouragement from the United States and the United Nations, the chairman of the Afghan Interim Administration, Hamid Karzai, announced a new ban on opium cultivation. His prohibition went beyond the Taliban's decree, to include processing and trafficking, which the Taliban had tolerated and, to some extent, profited from.
While foreign officials have applauded Mr. Karzai's ban, it was issued only after the poppies had been planted and without any viable means of implementation. 
"Chairman Karzai can put out a decree not to grow poppy, but it takes a law-enforcement component to enforce that decree," the administrator of the Drug Enforcement Agency, Asa Hutchinson, has told Congress.
Now, even though the opium was planted relatively late in the season and the fields will be affected by a continuing drought, drug-control officials say the conditions are good enough to produce a bumper crop.
"We had a brief opportunity to significantly impact their potential to produce opium," one senior American official involved in the effort said. "We have lost that opportunity. What is going to occur is that this crop is going to get out of the ground."
In a preliminary survey in February, the United Nations International Drug Control Program estimated that Afghanistan's poppy fields could reach between 111,000 acres and 161,000 acres, an area about the size of that cultivated in the mid-1990's but much less than its peak of 224,918 acres, which was planted in the fall of 1999 and harvested the next year.
While it will be impossible to determine the size of the crop until the poppies bloom and are harvested over the next two months, some United States estimates are of a crop even larger than that projected by the United Nations.
"What is scary about this is that it really could give them enough opium to stockpile for two or two and a half more years," the senior American official said.
Afghanistan's record harvest in 2000 was so large that opium dealers and traffickers were able to set aside huge amounts of the drug, keeping heroin prices remarkably stable in countries like Britain and Germany even when the world supply plummeted the next year because of the Afghans' ban. Even now, United Nations officials say, those stockpiles hold enough opium to supply customers in Europe, Central Asia and other countries of the former Soviet Union for perhaps another year.
Initially, United States and European officials considered trying to buy up this year's harvest and then destroying it. That proposal was quickly abandoned, however, after objections from Germany, Italy and Scandinavian countries that it would only encourage the farmers to plant poppies again next year.
A second proposal was to pay opium farmers to plow under their fields. While that strategy has also drawn objections from some European countries, American officials said they would readily try it if they could find people who could move safely around the countryside, make deals with opium farmers and then assure that pledges to eradicate are fulfilled. 
The possibilities included using relief workers to negotiate with the farmers and American soldiers to provide security, but officials said those ideas had been rejected.
Germany has taken responsibility for helping to train and equip a new Afghan police force, but officials expect that it will take five years or more before such a force can operate effectively across the country. A drug-enforcement unit in the Afghan Interior Ministry could be up and running much sooner, officials said, but not soon enough to act against this year's harvest.
In the meantime, American and especially British officials are pushing the government to negotiate some modest eradication plans with Pashtun tribal leaders and other local authorities in the important growing areas. Two officials said intelligence officers from both countries would support those efforts with cash and other incentives for local leaders who could persuade farmers to plow under their opium fields.
Ultimately, their success will depend on the Afghan governent, which is already struggling to win the loyalties of tribal leaders before the loya jirga, or national congress, convenes in June to choose a new government.
"Do they have the control to do this?" asked Alex L. Jones, the program director in Afghanistan for Mercy Corps, a private relief group that has worked there for years, in a telephone interview from Kandahar. "They depend on the various commanders, and the commanders depend on poppy growing -- whether because they get revenue from it directly or because they need the good will of the people who grow it."
Foreign relief workers and development experts are already focused on the enormous task of establishing sustainable alternatives for poppy farmers before the next planting season begins in October.
Such efforts, which must fit into wider plans to revitalize the agricultural base, will require everything from seeds for fruit, cumin and other high-value crops to credit systems and new irrigation works and roads.
Bernard Frahi, the head of the United Nations control program for the region, said in a telephone interview from Pakistan, "Things need to be done very, very soon in order for farmers not to plan opium next year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abdul Wadood tending his poppy field near Kandahar last month. There are fears the government cannot enforce a ban on cultivation. (Associated Press)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPIUM (95%); HEROIN (94%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); TALIBAN (89%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TERRORISM (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POLITICS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; HEROIN; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OPIUM; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



8 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Grand Plans For a Mall That's Heard It All Before 

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
Yesterday, there was the Albee Square Mall, the glass-enclosed retail future of Downtown Brooklyn. Today, after two decades spent either treading water or sinking, the mall, now the Gallery at MetroTech, stands drab and a bit forlorn.
 But tomorrow, the mall's new owner says, a golden castle will rise above the honky-tonk bustle of the Fulton Street shopping strip. 
 "It's going to be a la the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas," the owner, Joseph J. Sitt, said the other day as he stood in front of his new possession. "Sconces. Finials! It's going to be gorgeous, the theme being a palatial Italian villa. Very, very upscale." 
Inside, Mr. Sitt said, a gleaming granite floor will connect a revamped lineup of stores, including national retailers like, he hopes, the Gap or Victoria's Secret, which would displace at least a few of the independently owned shops that have defined the mall from the start.
So far, in the eight months since he bought the mall for $25 million, Mr. Sitt, founder of the Ashley Stewart chain of plus-size women's clothing stores, has little to show for his efforts beyond a patched-up roof and some new skylights.
He has been to court with no fewer than 17 of his 70-odd tenants in battles over back rent and eviction. 
But whether Mr. Sitt ultimately succeeds in transforming the mall or, indeed, whether Fulton Street's discount-driven masses are ready to embrace even an ersatz-Vegas version of upscale, winds of change are blowing through the Gallery.
When the three-story mall opened in 1980, expectations were high. "Not in recent memory has any new building been started in Downtown Brooklyn that will provide as much shopping space," The New York Times observed. "Beneath a translucent roof 60 feet high, which will rise still higher at its four peaks, shoppers will meander through stores occupying 155,000 square feet of net leasable space."
The mall became a magnet for many young black Brooklynites. In a song about the mall, the goofball rapper Biz Markie named his favorite stores and rhymed, "When I come in the mall, and then I start to roam / You wouldn't think it's a store, you would think it's my home."
But as a business, the mall was a mess, with problems including rent strikes by store owners over what they said was slipshod security and maintenance. 
In the early 90's, the MetroTech Center opened nearby, bringing 20,000 office workers within an easy stroll. A Toys "R" Us opened in 1993, the mall's first and, to date, only big national retailer. But still the Gallery struggled, in part under the weight of trying to compete with its neighbors on the open-air Fulton Street Mall, a seven-block strip jammed with more than 200 electronics stores, hair and nail establishments, and multilevel bargain basements.
Forest City Ratner bought the mall in 1990 and promised to make it more upscale, then seemed to lose interest. Last year, when a huge balloon payment came due on the mortgage, Forest City walked away.
Then, last summer, enter Mr. Sitt, 38, a son of Brooklyn, eager and youthful, accompanied by a new manager, a former military police officer and homicide detective named Peter Lockhart. Mr. Lockhart set about aggressively evicting longtime tenants who had weak leases or large rent arrears and putting everyone else on notice.
"People had to understand that the mall needed discipline," Mr. Lockhart said with a smile in the mall's basement office. 
"Some people didn't show up for days," he said. "If we don't get the retailers open at 10, the customers become frustrated." 
The shopkeepers, who hail from at least a dozen countries in every corner of the world, complained that the new management was ruining the mall's unique character.
Indeed, in an inversion of the usual situation, it is out on Main Street -- Fulton, in this case -- that shoppers can find the Modell's, the Wiz, the Macy's. The Gallery consists mostly of clothing and shoe stores with names like Flavour, Below the Belt and Atmosphere Shoes.
Mr. Sitt said he was simply doing what he had to to turn the mall around. "If the local and national stores here don't do better," he said, "I've failed."
He wants the mall to draw crowds from every market niche in the area -- office and court workers, college students, even what Mr. Sitt called "the Boerum Hill crowd," referring to the neighborhood a few blocks but a socioeconomic world away from Fulton Street.
He will do this, he said, by flooring the customer with class. "When you get greeted in front of the store," he said, "it's not going to be a security guard. It's going to be a guy in a tuxedo."
Mr. Sitt wants to take down the five-story parking garage behind the mall, put up a huge building and extend the mall into it. He also plans to rename the mall, again, the Gallery at Fulton Street.
Local business leaders said he may be on the right track. Lou Carbonetti, president of the Fulton Mall Improvement Association, which includes the Gallery, said the building certainly "needs a face-lift." 
Mike Weiss, executive director of the MetroTech Business Improvement District, which abuts the mall, said he was "optimistic" about the mall's prospects.
The Gallery today looks to be in transition. Recently, the big sign saying "Mall remodeling -- prime retail space available" was surrounded by smaller ones: "Just Name It. We moved to downstairs (next to the GNC)"; "Watch Gallery moved to upstairs next to Foot Locker." 
At the front door stood a man not in a tuxedo but in a parka, handing out fliers for a podiatric clinic inside run by Drs. Lawrence Klein and Michael Brumer, whose licenses were suspended once in the late 1980's for negligence and incompetence and whose multimillion-dollar Medicaid fraud trial is about to start. "Ladies," the pitchman called out, "anybody with bunions? Corns?"
Some shoppers said they liked the mall fine without the big-name stores. "The best thing about the mall is that it's not the Gap," said a 39-year-old college student from Crown Heights, who gave her name only as Ms. Taylor, as she eyed a pair of Calvin Klein jeans for $20 and a black DKNY sweater for $27 in the window of Tamara's.
A couple in their early 20's, Thelma Wooten and Aaron Webb, said they had been coming to the mall several times a week for years. "Half the time it's to buy things, the other half just to get something to eat or to meet people here and go somewhere else," said Ms. Wooten, a security guard.
Cynthia Stevens, a purchasing agent from Crown Heights, said she seldom came to the mall because she preferred a bigger variety of stores. But there she was, poking her head into Miracle, where a $10 Boot Riot was under way.
The riot was quiet. Ms. Stevens, 45, had the store to herself at 5:30 p.m. on a Wednesday except for the manager, Lisa Singh, and a security guard, Marc Davis. The lights had been turned down because the heat was up too high.
Ms. Singh said the store had moved recently from down the street because it had been held up at gunpoint. Mr. Davis, 21, said, "If I didn't have to work in here, I wouldn't be here at all."
But soon Ms. Stevens emerged from the dressing room and brought two pairs of pants and a skirt up to the register. "I only tried one on because it's too hot," she said. "If this one doesn't fit can I exchange it?" Yes, Ms. Singh replied. 
Ms. Stevens left happy. "I'd come back here," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Sitt, left, the owner of the Gallery at MetroTech on Fulton Street in Brooklyn, with the mall's manager, Peter Lockhart. Mr. Sitt hopes to bring in national retailers, which would displace some of the current tenants. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); TRENDS (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); EVICTION (70%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); RAP MUSIC (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (56%); TOYS 'R' US INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%)

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY; SITT, JOSEPH J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



9 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Sharon Speaks of War; Ramallah Made Off Limits
Calling Yasir Arafat "the enemy of the free world," Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared Israel to be in a war. Mr. Sharon has made similarly bellicose statements about Mr. Arafat in the past. A1

A suicide bomber from the Islamic group Hamas killed himself, 14 others and wounded more than 40 in an attack on a restaurant frequented by Arabs and Jews in the coastal city Hafia. Two hours later, another suicide bomber exploded in a station for paramedics in a settlement south of Bethlehem, killing himself and wounding at least four medics, one of them seriously. A1

The Israeli government declared Ramallah a "closed military zone" after 40 international protesters, including journalists, entered Yasir Arafat's besieged compound. The government said the reporters were there illegally and that any who remained could lose their accreditation and have their offices closed. A8

Pope Calls for Mideast Peace
Pope John Paul II presided over Easter services appealing to Christian communities to work to end the spiral of attacks between Israelis and Palestinians. A4

Little Work for Japanese Youth
The Japanese recession's most invisible victims are young people entering a radically changed job market. While headlines lament the layoffs of 50-year-old workers who receive generous severance packages, the press pays little attention to hiring restrictions that are freezing out a generation. A3

NATION CHALLENGED A12-13

Bomb Attack Puts Chill On Churchgoers in Pakistan
Armed police officers guarded the gates at St. Thomas Church of Pakistan in Islamabad as a sermon spoke of terror and the fear of death. Two Sundays ago, a man with a bomb walked into a service at the city's other Protestant church and killed five worshipers, including an employee of the American Embassy and her daughter. A12

NATIONAL A14-17

Prescription Drug Issue Moves to Center Stage
Evidence that prescription drugs are taking center stage on the campaign trail is plentiful, including action by more than 30 state legislatures to pass bills to curb drug costs. A1

Trash Train Slows
Tullytown, Pa., is working to find a replacement for the $2 million to $4 million it has received annually for letting New York City and Long Island dump trash in its landfill. A14

A Debate Over Dredging
The Port of Portland is promoting a plan to dredge millions of tons of sand from the bottom of the Columbia River to allow ever-bigger ships to navigate the river. But fishermen, tribes and environmentalists are opposed, saying the activity could wreak ecological havoc in crab and fishing grounds. A14

Appealing to the Faithful
Cardinal Bernard Law called on the faithful at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross in Boston to maintain their belief despite the scandal over sexual abuse of children by priests that has rocked the Roman Catholic Church this year. He did not apologize to victims of abuse by priests. Instead, he urged Catholics to focus their gaze on the "unseen mystery of Easter," the holiest day of the year for Christians. A15

A Development or a Refuge?
The endangered desert lizard is at the heart of a battle between its protectors and a developer with visions of a 9,000-acre desert town between the southeast boundary of Joshua Tree National Park and the northern edge of the Coachella Valley Preserve in California, the last refuge for the lizards and dozens of other species. A15

H.I.V. Fears
Hundreds of patients of a hospital in Jourdanton, Tex., have been tested for the H.I.V. virus after an H.I.V.-positive nurse admitted stealing doses of the painkilling drug Demerol and replacing it with a saline solution. The hospital fears the nurse may have used infected needles while making the switch. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Family of Shooting Victim Disputes the Authorities
A man who was shot to death on Saturday night by a plainclothes police officer after breaking into a van has been identified as a Lower East Side resident with more than 30 arrests on larceny and drug charges, the authorities said. B3

Ban on New York Lead Sinkers
The Legislature is on the brink of passing a bill that will ban the sale of lead sinkers used to weight fishing lines. The switch to sinkers made from nontoxic material could protect anglers and waterfowl. To the chagrin of some, it should not have taken at least a decade for such a bill to make it this far. B5

Celebration and Solemnity
The celebration of the holiest day in the Christian calendar was an unusual blend of joy and solemnity -- a remembrance not only of Christ's Resurrection but of the thousands lost in terrorist attacks, of the perils of war and of the violence devastating the Middle East. B1

ARTS E1-8

Museum on the Move
The Museum of Modern Art will try to lure visitors across the East River to Long Island City with new shows and a sampling of the Modern's best works until its Manhattan site reopens in 2005. The Modern's directors are nervous about bowing off the Manhattan stage. E1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Perfection for UConn
The University of Connecticut women's basketball team won their third title in seven years, defeating Oklahoma, 82-70, to finish the season with a 39-0 record. A1

OBITUARIES B7

R.V. Cassill
A teacher of creative writing, a book reviewer, and an editor who wrote 24 novels and 7 collections of short stories, he was 82. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Sharpening Focus on Enron
Prosecutors have opened a new phase in their investigation of the collapse of Enron, advancing beyond the indictment of Arthur Andersen to focus on executives of Enron, according to people involved in the case. As part of that effort, prosecutors convened a special grand jury. In federal courts, such grand juries are reserved for only the most complex and significant cases. A1

A Journal Makeover
The Wall Street Journal will introduce a redesign next week, including the addition of color. The paper's executives say their goal is to expand beyond the paper's aging core of current subscribers. C1

Internet Manager Criticized
The organization responsible for managing the Internet's address system has embarked on a reform effort that has ignited a contentious debate about its own future and the very notion of Internet governance. C1

Fewer Trademark Applications
The number of applications for trademarks fell 23 percent last year. Some experts suggest the trend indicates less optimism about the economy. C2

End of Poultry Ban
Russia agreed to lift a ban on American poultry, ending a three-week dispute. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: McCain-Feingold goes to court; improving aviation security; the state of the southern ice.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather B4
Crossword E6

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HAMAS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SCANDALS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); WRITERS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (67%); EASTER SEASON (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (66%); SEVERANCE PAY (65%); LANDFILLS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); PARAMEDICS (55%); ACCREDITATION (53%); CHILD ABUSE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PORT OF PORTLAND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC9621 REGULATION & ADMINISTRATION OF TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



10 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; 
Players Are Cars, Coaches Are Drivers

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
Somewhere between pit road and the pep rally I began to lose my way. Is there really that much of a difference, I wondered, between a university that pours Pepsi and wears Nike and a stock car racing team that pumps Bud Lite and wears Drakkar Noir cologne? Is it April foolish to worry about the comparative graduation rates of the Indiana and Maryland basketball teams when I never asked Jeff Gordon if he was graduated from high school? Is the numb shade of Bob Knight as powerful as the vibrant ghost of Dale Earnhardt? Is a perimeter offense as effective as bumping in the turns?
 Beats me. So far. But that's why I left Nascar for the N.C.A.A., two of the great misunderstood governments of our time, and why I am here as the Final Four became the Terminal Two. The answers will reveal themselves. I hope. 
 For starters, I do not think that rooting for Coach Mike Davis's Indiana team tonight is a clear vote against Coach Knight, whose 29 years as General Hoosier have clearly not been erased by his firing two seasons ago. Knight is being rehabilitated these days by the talk-show circuit as he promotes his mostly unreadable new autobiography. He told Tim Russert on MSNBC the other night that he called it "My Story" to distinguish it from all the analysis of him written by people who had never even come to a practice. 
Of course, the best book on Knight, "A Season on the Brink," was written by John Feinstein, who went to many practices and in a remarkably fair-minded way described a brilliant, intense, demanding teacher whose success cosmeticized his flaws. Knight claims to have stopped reading the Feinstein book after six pages because of the obscene language coming out of the protagonist's mouth. That was Feinstein's fault, implies Knight, whose gifts for intimidation and denial have been the keys to his defense. In Feinstein, he briefly met a match; imagine Knight calling a writer an arrogant know-it-all.
Knight's spirit is here, channeled as a kind of Conradian secret sharer that Coach Davis must exorcise to take control of the Indiana program (a key word I've learned in this year at school, it includes all the moral, economic, historical, administrative and community elements that help produce a team).
Davis is no kid coach -- he's 41 and was Knight's assistant for three years -- and in his second season as head coach he has gone further than Knight (or any Indiana coach in more than a century) did during his first two seasons. Knight took over in the 1971-72 season and the next year lost in the semifinals.
But even winning tonight may not be enough for Davis, whose slow, overarticulated speech is a hard-won victory over a debilitating stutter. Meanwhile, jabbering smoothly, Knight is on the airwaves trying to interrupt. Incredibly, he is getting credit for having reached the N.C.A.A. tournament with a mercenary Texas Tech team of junior college transfers. Since even a bad movie couldn't stop him, we may need garlic, sunlight and wooden (not John Wooden) stakes to end the Knight.
Now, see, there was nothing in Nascar that ever got me that exercised. Maybe I'm having a withdrawal episode. The engines had hardly cooled on my Year at Speed when Nascar zoomed into pop culture. First, drivers started scuffling with one another after races in which the usual "rubbin' and bangin' " had caused damage. Fans love this almost as much as wrecks; an old stock car sideshow, pit road punchouts had disappeared with corporate sponsorship, but they must be back now for TV ratings. 
Then Jeff and Brooke Gordon, a fixture at the evangelical Christian services that Nascar institutionalized, the couple that put the fun back in fundamentalism, broke up. It was hot news for "Entertainment Tonight" and People magazine, proof of the cross-over. 
Finally, Dale Earnhardt Jr., the 27-year-old son of the late Intimidator, became the spokesmodel for Drakkar Noir. Sales increased dramatically. For Nascar's young male core demographic, a men's cologne must be a fluid that mixes well with hormones and beer. Junior is an MTV driver and a man of his times; why shouldn't hustling perfume be as honorable as hustling delivery services, sexual performance drugs, candy or soap, all of which adorn rival racing cars. 
That's when I began to adjust to my transition from speed to school. Everything falls into place if you can imagine that here in college basketball the players are the cars and the coaches are the drivers. 
Nascar's rule book, written in motor oil on a banked track, is as intentionally bewildering as the N.C.A.A.'s quarry of commandments chipped into stone. Be it the spoilers on cars or the eligibility of student-athletes, the governing body controls through inconsistent enforcement. 
Racing teams are constantly buying, rebuilding, adjusting, switching cars the same way programs are buying, recruiting, teaching, switching players. The racing media's fascination with engines and body fabrication matches the college sports media's fascination with the back-stories of poor young men. The driver/coach manages to seem magnanimous when he says he couldn't have won without his car/team. 
But my parallel breaks down. How can you compare the blatant signs on cars and drivers' uniforms with the discreet logos on players' shoes and uniforms? Dare you compare the mindless cheering of race goers in their caps and T-shirts with the energy of collegiate fans, the lunatic joy on innocent faces painted red.

The Series So Far
 This is the ninth article in a series on the role of college sports in American culture. Previous articles explored gambling on the N.C.A.A. tournament, the disparate views of a university president and a fan and examined a college's desire to reinstate its women's basketball program after a 15-year absence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); AUTO RACING (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATION RATES (76%); SPORTS CARS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WRITERS (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%) BASKETBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS; AUTOMOBILE RACING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (83%) NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSN; NORTH AMERICAN SPORTS CAR RACING ASSN 

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (57%); TIM RUSSERT (50%) LIPSYTE, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



11 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Improving Aviation Security 

 BODY:
Six months after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, public confidence in the nation's aviation system is rebounding. With the economy recovering as well, air travel is picking up and airlines are reinstating flights and furloughed workers. It's just the sort of moment when a sense of complacency could take hold. That would be a grievous mistake. Federal authorities have just begun to consolidate their control over airport security and a staggering amount of work remains to be done. 
 Just how much was shown by a security audit conducted by government inspectors last fall, before the federal takeover. USA Today reported last week that in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks, it remained disturbingly easy to carry knives, guns and simulated explosives past security screeners. The audit, conducted by the office of Kenneth Mead, the Department of Transportation's inspector general, took place before formal control over airport security passed from the airlines to the new Transportation Security Administration on Feb. 17. Mr. Mead plans more audits to gauge the new agency's initial performance. 
 The difficulty in making a clean break with the past is highlighted by the rash of terminal shutdowns triggered by security lapses in recent weeks. Though highly disruptive to travelers, these incidents rightly signal the T.S.A.'s determination that security take precedence over convenience. 
The T.S.A. was created by the aviation security law passed last November and is run by John Magaw, a former Secret Service director. By Nov. 19, the anniversary of the law's signing, he must have between 30,000 and 40,000 federal security agents in place at 429 airports. In May, they will start replacing the notoriously low-paid private guards hired by the airlines, who are working under federal supervisors during the transition. The law enforcement agency just started training 1,200 screening supervisors in Oklahoma, and will be steadily deploying them nationwide. 
The year-end deadline for all baggage to be checked by sophisticated bomb-detection machines poses the most daunting challenge for the Transportation Security Administration. Only 10 percent of the 2,000 or so costly machines that will be needed are in place. The T.S.A. says it will meet the deadline. It has ordered several hundred more of the machines that use CT-scan technology from the two licensed manufacturers, and has arranged to have larger industrial conglomerates bid as subcontractors to build many more. The T.S.A. plans to meet the deadline by deploying a mix of the machines and more flexible explosive-trace-detection equipment. 
By law, the T.S.A. must tell Congress in May exactly how it plans to meet the year-end deadline. Congress must ensure that the T.S.A. is taking no dangerous shortcuts. The performance of Mr. Magaw and his new agency ought to rank among the Bush administration's highest priorities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AVIATION SECURITY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AUDITS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (93%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%) TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION 

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (93%)

PERSON: MAGAW, JOHN W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



12 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
In a shift in the technology business, customers are now the kingmakers.

BYLINE:  By Steve Lohr 

 BODY:
THE humbling fall to earth of the high-technology industry the last 18 months has brought a series of changes, from the reduced value that the stock market places on many companies to a more sober view of information technology's power to transform the economy and the culture.
 One byproduct has been a significant shift in the balance of power for buyers and sellers in the technology sector. In the bygone era of a few years ago, when established companies in every industry were said to be threatened with extinction by an upstart dot-com, computer hardware and software was bought with abandon, motivated by fear and fashion. Many corporate executives have a lingering sense of being duped a bit by the grand promises of the industry's "visionaries," who, after the party, look more like mere salesmen. 
 Today it is the corporate buyers of information technology who hold the whip. Evidence of the shift in power to buyers, and away from vendors, is everywhere. In the industry, the notion of "putting the customer first," given cynical lip service in the past, is now regarded as deep wisdom.
The new ethos was amply on display last week at the annual PC Forum in Scottsdale, Ariz. Esther Dyson, an influential industry analyst and publisher whose newsletter Release 1.0 is determinedly focused on the intersection of the present and the future, is host of the conference. PC Forum, in its 25th year, takes the same approach, mixing executives of industry stalwarts like Microsoft and Intel with aspiring start-ups, venture capitalists and others.
A striking feature of the gathering this year was the prominence of chief information officers of old-line companies like American Airlines and General Motors. They were the stars of the show, and the discussion topics included "The Politics of Enterprise Software." These days, a promising start-up needs a few big corporate customers to attract the venture capital needed to survive.
Monte E. Ford, the chief information officer at American Airlines, spoke with the weary wisdom of experience of the software industry's penchant for promoting a "new savior product" every few years -- enterprise resource planning software, better known as E.R.P., customer relationship management software, or C.R.M., and the industry's current darling, Web services.
Because corporations account for so much of the investment in information technology, their buying decisions are crucial to establishing industry standards. "We end up being kingmakers," Mr. Ford observed. Yet the vendor kings -- like SAP, Oracle, Microsoft and Sun Microsystems -- have emerged with more market power in their hands than have the corporate customers, even the largest. The customers' power to play the kingmaker, Mr. Ford said, has often turned out to be "a sort of self-defeating proposition."
Yet the big customers have been flexing their power lately. A good example is the Liberty Alliance, a consortium of technology companies, led by Sun, and many large corporate customers like United Airlines, American Express and General Motors. 
The Liberty consortium, announced last fall, was formed to develop online identification technology for Internet commerce. Liberty was established at a time when a pair of online identification technologies were under development -- one from AOL, with an initiative called Magic Carpet, and another from Microsoft, with its Passport sign-on system well along.
The airline, auto and credit-card companies feared that AOL and Microsoft might use their ID offerings -- which allow consumers to fill out a single form to shop on the Web, instead of having to fill out separate forms at many Web sites -- as a leverage point to lock in consumers and dominate Internet commerce. 
Another big technology company, Sun, was also known to be working on online ID technology. Three weeks before the Liberty Alliance was announced in September, Sun and about three dozen other companies met in San Jose, Calif. The fear among the nontechnology companies, Tony Scott, the chief information officer of General Motors, said in an interview, was that "we saw this really ugly scenario with the potential for erosion of consumer confidence in the Web."
"This was not a good area," Mr. Scott said, "to have a big technology battle," by offering a service that would exclude rival products.
So as soon as the San Jose meeting began, Mr. Scott said, the assembled companies had a simple message for Scott G. McNealy, the chief executive of Sun. "We told McNealy," Mr. Scott said, "that if you want to use this as a stick to beat up on Microsoft and AOL, forget it. We're out of here."
Indeed, Sun has stepped a bit to the side in the Liberty group. It will be technology supplier, but the alliance is led by others, with Eric C. Dean, the chief information officer at United Airlines, serving as president. Liberty has pledged to take a "federated" approach, meaning it will work with other online ID technologies, or interoperate. Since the Liberty announcement last fall, Microsoft has pledged to adopt the federated model with its Passport service.
Yet the shift in power toward the corporate buyers, it seems, is more a corrective swing of the pendulum than a permanent transition to making technology companies mere order-takers. The reason: the high-tech industry still does have the capacity, as it always has, to come up with innovations that change the way people work and play.
Customers often help new innovations find their best and most practical uses. Technology is a tool to help solve a problem that customers know they have. But a singular focus on the customer can be a rearview mirror, a lesson recalled at PC Forum by veterans of many a technology cycle. 
There was no great customer demand, for example, for Internet browsing software. It was developed by a couple of students at the supercomputing center at the University of Illinois, who went on with others and founded what became Netscape Communications.
"Netscape brought to the world a whole new way to look for information," observed Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google. "It shows that sometimes the technologists are right."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kapolnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (86%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (69%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (67%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (62%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



13 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Lift the Cuba Embargo 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 You report that the Bush administration is expected to approve the request by former President Jimmy Carter to visit Cuba this year (news article, March 26). My wife and I recently visited Cuba under a program licensed by the Treasury Department. 
The shortages caused by the embargo were apparent throughout the island, from lack of replacements for machinery to the limited pharmaceuticals available. 
 While the freedoms found in democratic societies are treasured, it is difficult to ignore the question raised by a leading Cuban dissident: How do you explain to a Cuban mother who cannot find medication for her child that the purpose of the embargo is the democratization of Cuba?

WILLIAM COHEN
Cold Spring, N.Y., March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPROVALS (88%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOMS FOUNDATION AT VALLEY FORGE (57%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (88%) COHEN, WILLIAM; CARTER, JIMMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



14 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Russia Agrees to End Ban on U.S. Poultry 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 31 

 BODY:
Russia agreed today to lift its ban on American poultry products by April 10 to end a three-week trade dispute that has cramped the two countries relations.
 In a briefing, the American ambassador, Alexander R. Vershbow, said that he and Russia's chief veterinary inspector, Mikhail Kravchuk, had signed a protocol today that contained a "clear commitment" by Russia to end the poultry ban before April 10. 
 The United States will take steps before that date, Mr. Vershbow said, to "reassure the Russian side about our inspection system and also to remedy some problems that have arisen with respect to veterinary certificates." 
Russia's Agriculture Ministry halted imports of American poultry on March 10, citing concerns over the use of chemicals and antibiotics by farmers. The ban was a blow to American poultry exporters. Russia is the biggest foreign market for American poultry, with annual sales topping $600 million.
Russia imposed the ban at the same time the Bush administration adopted punitive steel duties that hurt some Russian steel exports. Officials here have denied that the ban was adopted to retaliate against the steel tariffs, which they say will cost Russian industry $400 million a year. 
Today's protocol cites salmonella as the central problem, although it was not cited as the main concern at the time the ban began. In early March, Russian television reported that salmonella had been detected in American chicken shipments stored in St. Petersburg. Under the protocol, Russia will not buy from the 14 companies it says sent contaminated shipments.
But Mr. Vershbow said today that American officials "did not hear any convincing evidence" that the quality of the American meat was below required standards. He accused Russian negotiators of frequently changing the reasons for the ban and raising some problems only after the ban was imposed. 
"The rationale for the ban seemed to shift from one day to the next," he said. "We believe that, in many respects, they've exaggerated the health risks. We have heard of no cases where American poultry products have caused any harm to the Russian consumer."
Agriculture Ministry officials were not available for comment today.
Mr. Vershbow said the ban had been "the No. 1 problem in U.S.-Russian relations over the past month" and had involved five United States cabinet ministers. He added that President Bush had raised the issue with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Its resolution comes less than two months before a scheduled meeting of the two presidents in Russia.
Russia is seeking membership in the World Trade Organization so it can take its trade complaints, like the one about American steel duties, to the international courts available to members. 
Mr. Vershbow said today that the handling of the poultry ban would "raise some questions about whether the agricultural sector in Russia is prepared to play by W.T.O. rules." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (95%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); MEATS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); BACTERIA (90%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EVIDENCE (69%); AGRICULTURE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (54%) FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POULTRY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; VERSHBOW, ALEXANDER R (AMB) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



15 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Is This Europe's Hour To Lead on Free Trade? 

BYLINE:  By Stephan Richter; Stephan Richter is publisher of The Globalist, a daily online magazine about the global economy.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With its heated rhetoric and threats of retaliation, the trans-Atlantic fight over President Bush's decision to raise tariffs against imported steel may look like just another trade dispute. But Pascal Lamy, trade commissioner for the European Union, is using the steel spat to make the E.U. the new rule maker for international trade.
 His effort marks a role reversal of historic proportions in world politics. Fifty years ago, there was a country that, when it came to international trade, put the welfare of the world economy ahead of its own. That country was the leading economic power of its day, and its ideas about economics and finance determined the direction global policy would take; it was, of course, the United States. 
 The United States is still the world's leading economic power. But what happens when the hegemon's chief loses sight of the global picture and becomes distracted by internal matters -- like securing the votes of steel states? Someone else, with different ideas on how the global economy should be organized, might fill the vacuum. Mr. Lamy, one of Europe's most strategy-minded politicians, is hoping to do just that.
The Europeans are taking great care to play by the rules in the steel dispute. The E.U. is keen to ensure that even stiff European retaliation is fully justified under World Trade Organization rules. It hopes that American action, by contrast, looks as much as possible like a temper tantrum.
Not that the Europeans are above street-level politics. The E.U. has already prepared an attack plan in the form of a carefully chosen set of countervailing tariffs -- covering 316 products, from motorcycles to orange juice, worth more than $2 billion -- designed with the American electoral map in mind. If, as many people believe, President Bush adopted the steel tariff in large part to secure steel-state votes in 2004, the Europeans are ready to try to show that the steel tariff can also result in lost votes in states where people are hurt by Europe's targeted retaliation. The E.U. plan will not go into effect until other tactics have failed, in particular anti-tariff cases brought before the W.T.O. by the E.U. and others against the United States. But Mr. Lamy has his plan ready just in case.
Clearly Mr. Lamy is hoping that, one way or another, the administration will find that the steel tariffs are all pain and no gain. If it does so, he will be ready with an ingenious, and very European, proposal that would go far beyond safeguarding metal-working jobs. Mr. Lamy well knows that trade discussions can rapidly get bogged down in detailed discussions that, while they may provide arcane entertainment for industry experts, leave little room for sweeping strategy. He is interested, however, in leveraging the steel quarrel into a different kind of opportunity, as can be glimpsed in a letter he sent to his American counterpart, Robert Zoellick, in mid-February. 
As Mr. Lamy notes in his letter, the root problem is the global overcapacity of steel production and resulting stiff competition. President Bush is raising tariffs to shield the American industry temporarily from competitive pressures so that it can restructure. The big steel companies face heavy "legacy costs" -- promises of pension and health-care payments.
In his letter to Mr. Zoellick, Mr. Lamy proposes a fund that "could meet legacy costs associated with the definitive closure of production facilities, help steel workers retrain and promote economic development in regions where steel plants were cutting capacity or closing." 
This fund, Mr. Lamy noted, could be financed by a 2 percent levy on steel sold in the United States, whether domestic or imported. Mr. Lamy emphasized that Europe wants to assist the American steel industry in restructuring to avoid collapse. But at the same time, Europe wants the steel tariff removed. American acceptance of this approach would show that there are other ways for government to affect industrial policy beyond throwing up occasional tariffs. 
Most experts agree that the American steel tariff probably violated W.T.O. rules. The Bush administration is already facing a high-profile loss in the W.T.O.'s decision that corporate tax breaks for American exporters were against the rules. (It is now up to Congress to adjust the tax code to pass muster with the W.T.O. and thereby avoid sanctions.) Another loss would be embarrassing for a country that has placed the Doha round of trade negotiations at the center of its international economic policy.
More important, American actions seem to betray America's free-trade legacy. In the formative years of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -- precursor to the W.T.O. -- the United States was willing to make significant sacrifices to strengthen the free-trade system. But the United States was also the rule maker because the system was, after all, its creation. The Europeans, on the other hand, were the source of major violations and tensions in the system.
Now the tables are turned. Europe is far from being the poster boy of international trade, as witnessed by its attempts to keep out Latin American bananas a few years ago. But what is different now is that the United States is willing to be a violator of trade rules -- and that Europe is willing to seize the opportunity to become rule maker itself.
How? Europe, by the way it frames its complaints to the W.T.O., will get to structure the nature of the case. That, in turn, will play a huge role in determining the nature of the implementing rules. In an area like world trade, where much of the "case law" remains to be determined, this amounts to substantial power.
In the weeks to come, it is important to remember that the bottom line for Mr. Lamy and the E.U. is not steel. It is nothing less than wresting the leadership of world economic regulation from the United States. American violations of W.T.O. rules are the route by which Europeans can assert their interpretation of those rules. By playing the good global citizen, Europe aims to become the world's pacesetter. That is one goal that all the 15 E.U. countries can agree on.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Sloan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) STEEL AND IRON; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); PASCAL LAMY (90%) RICHTER, STEPHAN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LAMY, PASCAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



16 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OUTLOOK; 
Pakistan's Bold Alliance: U.S. Ties Holding Firm

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, March 31 

 BODY:
President Bush has said repeatedly that in waging war on terrorism, the United States will work with countries that want to cooperate, but is prepared to act on its own.
 The Pakistani government has demonstrated how firmly it is in the camp of cooperation, most lately in allowing the F.B.I. and C.I.A. to conduct a raid with Pakistani police here last week that rounded up more than 30 men with suspected links to Al Qaeda. The raid also demonstrated how valuable that cooperation can be: one of those apprehended, Abu Zubaydah, is suspected of being a top lieutenant of Osama bin Laden. 
 Today, Pakistani officials said the men had been turned over to the United States. 
That action will surely bring some protest from nationalists and Islamists. But defying predictions that there would be huge street protests like those that roiled tribal areas in the days after the United States began bombing Afghanistan, most protests have been moderate, suggesting that the Pakistani leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, has some political space to carry out his pro-American, antiterrorism policies.
"In general, his policies of supporting the campaign against terrorism have not been challenged, except by religious groups," said a senior Western diplomat. The mainstream political parties "recognize he has handled the situation well," he said, "but there are limits to this support."
Perhaps recognizing those limits, General Musharraf has not given the Bush administration everything it wants. On Saturday evening, he made that clear once again. 
In spite of pressure from Washington, he told a meeting of Pakistani newspaper editors that he would not hand over Ahmed Omar Sheikh, the chief suspect in the murder of the American journalist Daniel Pearl. Mr. Sheikh has been indicted in the United States, which fervently wants his extradition. But the case is sensitive to Pakistan. 
"I am going to hold his trial inside the country and punish him for the crime he has committed in the country," General Musharraf said. 
Few countries have done as much for Washington in the war. Pakistan's willingness to take on strident nationalists and Islamic extremists is in marked contrast to Indonesia, for instance, also a Muslim country, but one whose president, Megawati Sukarnoputri, would be most unlikely to ever permit the F.B.I. to carry out a joint raid like the one here. Today, senior officials in Indonesia were again quoted as saying they had no evidence that a radical cleric, Abu Bakar Bashir, had been involved in terrorist activities, a conclusion at odds with that reached by other countries in the region, notably Singapore.
The Bush administration has recognized the contributions of General Musharraf, inviting him to Washington and commending his courage. 
But the administration has been slow to deliver on promises of police assistance, and has not removed duties and quotas on Pakistani textiles, a move that would give a vital lift to the economy of this impoverished country. 
Without some tangible benefits like those, there is a question of how long the Musharraf government can continue to mobilize public opinion behind its antiterrorism policies.
Washington has also at times taken actions that seem to undercut General Musharraf. Ten days ago, for example, it ordered all dependents of embassy employees to leave the country, out of concerns about security. "This is certainly not a good sign," said the interior minister, Moinhuddin Haider. "If everybody starts packing up and going home, it doesn't make a very good impression," he added. "We have to show some courage."
That General Musharraf has survived this close alliance is a lesson that Washington hopes other leaders can learn, particularly President Megawati in Indonesia. 
Most recently there has been a noticeable absence of protest in Pakistan over the role of agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the raid. No major newspapers have editorialized against it, and General Musharraf's mainstream political opponents have not criticized it.
There is certainly a radical element opposed to General Musharraf's policies. It is loud and violent and it has allies among Pakistan's military and intelligence corps. But for the moment the key military officers have stayed in line, and the Islamic political parties and radical leaders have failed to turn out anything but paltry crowds for anti-Musharraf or anti-American rallies.
This is not to deny the existence of a deep current of anti-Americanism in this Muslim country of 140 million. The hostile sentiment arises not only because of America's policy in Israel, but much closer to home because of American policies in the region.
After the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, the United States arrived in force, training, arming and equipping guerrilla groups, including the mujahedeen. When that war was over, the United States basically abandoned the region. "Pakistan was left with drugs and Kalashnikovs," a Western diplomat said here. "Pakistan felt betrayed."
In now siding with the United States, General Musharraf and his advisers have not erased this resentment, but in the main, Pakistanis appear to put national interest over past grudges. Religious extremism and sectarian violence have rent this nation.
"We have taken a very strong stand, because we believe that to have security in Pakistan we cannot have extremism here," said Mr. Haider, the interior minister.
It is not a risk-free policy, as Mr. Haider knows personally. His older brother was assassinated in Karachi last December. That attack was widely seen here as a retaliation against the government's policy of siding with the United States and cracking down on extremist groups in Pakistan. 
But the government vows to carry on. "Our resolve to continue this policy remains firm and strong, because it is good for Pakistan," Mr. Haider said.
Still, he would like to see a little more cooperation from the United States. The Musharraf government has given Washington a list of what it needs for its war against terrorists, starting with simple things like computers and printers for the provincial police, who are in the front line. 
The government has also asked the United States to install a computer system for the immigration service at the country's 18 land, air and sea ports of entry. Mr. Haider said that only the airport in Islamabad had a computerized system. He said he thought the new equipment would arrive within two to three months, but American officials are now saying that it would be at least a year before everything was delivered. 
Ticking off the other help that Pakistan would like from its more powerful partner in the war on terrorism, Mr. Haider referred to lifting the duties on textiles, but also called for foreign investment and relief from the country's $38 billion debt. "We need help quickly," he said. "These are very critical times." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WRITERS (69%); JOURNALISM (69%); INDICTMENTS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MURDER (58%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%) MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BONNER, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (92%) PAKISTAN; AFGHANISTAN; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



17 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Ambitious New Swiss Airline Makes First Flight 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, March 31 

 BODY:
Switzerland's new airline, called Swiss, took to the skies today. It replaced Swissair, the 71-year-old flag carrier that went bankrupt because of an ill-fated business plan and a dearth of passengers after Sept. 11 crippled long-distance travel.
 Swiss's first flight was a 15-minute hop from its home base of Basel to Zurich, the former hub of Swissair, carrying its chief executive, Andre Dose, and other top managers. 
 Hours earlier, Swissair had its final flight from New York, arriving in Geneva this morning. The new airline bears the familiar, but streamlined, white-cross, red-background logo.
While Swissair officially bowed out, the new Swiss is a merger of the remnants of Swissair and its former regional subsidiary, Crossair.
Aided by huge financial aid from the federal government and major Swiss businesses, the new airline has added two-thirds of Swissair's medium- and long-haul routes to its regional operations for a schedule serving 59 countries.
In addition to the routes, the new Swiss has taken on many Swissair employees, including pilots with whom it has negotiated a new salary deal in keeping with its pledge to trim costs.
Analysts, however, are concerned that the new enterprise is so ambitious that it may trip over many of the same hurdles that downed its predecessor.
Chief among them is Switzerland's small passenger base. The population of Switzerland is only 7.2 million, and Swiss, like its predecessor, must look outward to expand its business.
It announced its first move last week when it formed a partnership with American Airlines.
It also said it hoped to join the OneWorld alliance with American and British Airways and their partners to take advantage of the lucrative trans-Atlantic passenger market. Any such combination could well face challenges from some of the budget airlines, like Ryannair of Ireland.
That could crimp predictions that Swiss will break even in 2003. Mr. Dose said last week that he expected Swiss to run a loss of more than $1 billion this year.
The new airline could also be hamstrung by Swissair's debts if creditors try to disrupt its activities.
Swissair has been operating under protection from creditors and has sold off assets to pay debts, but some of its planes have been seized by French creditors.
While Swiss is hoping to rekindle Swissair's longstanding reputation for quality, its predecessor's checkered legacy will also cast a shadow. The meltdown of Swissair last year helped stir a national crisis of confidence.
The airline -- heavily owned by Swiss investors, both large and small -- had symbolized the country's image of quality, reliability and punctuality.
Swissair's ignominious grounding, when it ran out of cash to pay for fuel and landing fees for two days last fall, brought recriminations that are continuing with a Swiss parliament-mandated investigation.
To spare the loss of thousands of jobs, the government was forced to underwrite Swissair's continued operations until the new entity could take over operations.
Swiss says it will aim for passengers who want high-end service. It will serve meals with regular cutlery, avoiding and use glasses for passengers in all classes, from first to economy. 
It also announced the acquisition of Airbuses to increase comfort and upgrade amenities, including individual movie screens for passengers in each class. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MERGERS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR 

COMPANY: SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SWISS (CO); SWISSAIR; CROSSAIR 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (92%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); ZURICH (90%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) SWITZERLAND

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002 



18 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Farms and Growth Threaten a Sea and Its Creatures 

BYLINE:  By JIM ROBBINS 

DATELINE: BOMBAY BEACH, Calif. 

 BODY:
In this harsh brown moonscape of a desert 80 miles east of San Diego, the vast shimmering waters that stretch out at the base of the Santa Rosa Mountains make the Salton Sea look like a mirage -- miles of water too good to be true.
 And in a way it is a mirage. The Salton Sea, California's largest lake, is extremely salty, 25 percent saltier than the ocean and getting more so each day. It often smells bad. Outbreaks of botulism and very low oxygen levels have killed thousands of birds and fish. 
 The sea's increasing inhospitality, in fact, has turned Bombay Beach and other small resort communities on its shore into near ghost towns. By 2030, scientists say, the 360-square-mile sea -- America's second-largest saltwater lake, a third the size of Rhode Island -- will probably be dead, no longer able to support even the hardy species that inhabit it now.
Yet the sea, as strange as it is, plays a vital ecological role, and an intense, complicated fight over its future is under way.
While few people come here anymore, the sea is an avian metropolis, with some 400 species of birds. Among regions of the United States, its total bird population is second only to the Gulf Coast of Texas.
The reason for this abundance is agricultural runoff rich in nitrogen and phosphorus that has turned the Salton Sea into a briny soup oozing with algae and other life. As more than 90 percent of California's coastal wetlands have disappeared beneath bulldozers and asphalt, migrating birds have found the Salton Sea an alternative. The brown pelican and Yuma clapper rail (both endangered) and large numbers of white pelicans, cormorants, great blue herons, snowy egrets and other birds thrive on the fish here.
The paradox is not lost on Tom Kirk, director of the Salton Sea Authority in La Quinta, Calif., a regional agency established to save the sea from extinction. "This artificial place that relies on agricultural drain water," he said, "is the crown jewel of avian biodiversity."
But the Salton Sea is caught in the cross-fire of a water war.
The sea was originally created by accident, in 1905, when the Colorado River burst through a levee and flowed into a vast depression then called the Salton Sink. The river has long since been diverted, and now it provides water to the sea only indirectly -- through irrigation runoff from the farms of the huge Imperial Valley. 
For many years, California has used far more water from the Colorado River than its share under a compact with the other states along the river, and it is under a federal mandate to reduce the amount it draws by the end of 2002 -- to 4.4 million acre-feet a year from 5.2 million acre-feet. San Diego will have to find an alternative source for 200,000 acre-feet. (An acre-foot, enough water to cover an acre one foot deep, is about 326,000 gallons.) But proposals to make up the deficit -- largely by conserving water and transferring water rights from the Imperial Valley to San Diego -- would sharply decrease runoff from the valley, virtually drying up the Salton Sea's major source of water.
The sea would become "smaller, shallower and denser with salt very quickly," Mr. Kirk said. In as little as five years, he said, it could become too salty to sustain life.
Mr. Kirk's agency has proposed that 50,000 acres of farmland -- about 10 percent of the total in the Imperial Valley -- be allowed to lie fallow. That would make more water available to the sea and still provide San Diego with the water it wants.
But fallow fields reduce jobs and income in the poverty-stricken valley. Officials estimate that the measure would cost the region $171 million a year.
And that, says Mayor Larry Grogan of El Centro, would be a deal breaker. "Everybody in the world wants to save the sea," he said. "But I don't think it's possible. You're saving a dead-end system."
If no agreement on the Imperial Valley water is reached, California may be forced to yield 700,000 acre-feet of Colorado River water by 2003. That could sharply limit economic activity and curtail plans for development in and around San Diego.
Alarmed by this prospect, some Republican lawmakers, state and federal, have sought to change the Endangered Species Act so the threat to several species that depend on the Salton Sea, including the brown pelican, would not jeopardize a water-transfer plan.
"California is going to have to make some hard choices," said Larry Purcell, a water resources manager for the San Diego County Water Authority. Even if the Salton Sea loses irrigation runoff, he said, "There will always be areas of the sea amenable to these species; it's not like it will be totally useless."
In addition to destroying critical bird habitat, drying up most of the sea would expose vast salt flats to wind erosion and would create a serious air pollution problem, similar to one in the Owens Valley, where the need for water for Los Angeles dried up Owens Lake in the early 20th century. Officials say a significant water loss could also increase the levels of selenium, a toxic metal.
No matter what happens, if the Salton Sea wants to keep attracting birds it also needs to attract federal money. Because of evaporation the salt load in the lake increases each year by more than four million tons -- the equivalent of a mile-long freight train filled with salt.
Officials say that if no water is diverted from the Salton Sea, it can last 30 to 40 years before becoming too salty to support life. If water is diverted, the process would take just five years. Various options to reduce salinity, perhaps by pumping out water and allowing salt to settle out, are estimated to cost $300 million, which officials hope the federal government will provide. With the water diversion, the cost would rise to $1.4 billion.
While some lawmakers think the sea is the problem, Dr. Stuart Hurlbert, a biology professor at San Diego State and director of the Center for Inland Waters, a group of Salton Sea researchers, says the real problem is trying to maintain San Diego's high growth rate.
"Ecologically, the best idea is to shut down the idea of transferring water," he said. "As a San Diegan, the worst thing that could happen is to have the water come here to add a million more people."
Andy Horne, an El Centro real estate agent and a board member of the irrigation district that serves the Imperial Valley, says the matter is very much unresolved, with the prospect that California's water supply will be thrown into doubt.
"If you like train wrecks," he said, "stay tuned."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the Salton Sea drops, dead fish beach up on its margins, along with debris like rusted mufflers. (Associated Press) Chart: "Growth By the Sea" shows the population of San Diego County. (Source: Census Bureau) Map of California highlights the Salton Sea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (90%); LAKES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); RIVERS (78%); WETLANDS (78%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); ORNITHOLOGY (75%); WATER RIGHTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); AGRICULTURE (65%) WATER; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: ROBBINS, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) CALIFORNIA; SALTON SEA (CALIF); COLORADO RIVER

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



19 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Business Confidence Is Steady, Survey Finds 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 1 

 BODY:
Corporate managers expect conditions in Japan, the world's second largest economy, to improve by midyear as a recovery overseas and revamping efforts at home take hold, according to a widely followed survey by the Bank of Japan.
 The central bank's quarterly Tankan survey of business conditions found manufacturers' sentiment about current conditions unchanged from three months ago. Economists had forecast a small gain in the index, which subtracts the number of pessimists from optimists and registered a minus-38 reading. 
 But executives in almost every industry expect sales and profits to increase three months from now, suggesting the index will rise sharply next quarter.
The global downturn that started in late 2000, coupled with persistent deflation in Japan over the last four years, has forced Japanese manufacturers to slash inventories, close factories and lay off hundreds of thousands of workers. Companies like NEC and Fujitsu are also cutting back plans for capital investment for the new fiscal year, which began today. The latest gloomy headline came today from Toray Industries, the country's largest maker of synthetic fibers, which said it would shed one-tenth of its work force.
Wages are falling and the unemployment rate is near a postwar high, undermining consumer confidence and spending. 
But as always, Japan's economy is led by its biggest manufacturers, which stand to gain rapidly from economic recovery in the United States and in Asia.
"There's a big chance that the restructuring efforts will lead to a recovery in profits," said Yasuo Goto, an economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute. "Exporters will also benefit from a turnaround in the U.S. and the weaker yen."
The country's largest manufacturers expect pretax profits to increase 36.8 percent in the new fiscal year, retracing most of their decline last year, though revenue is seen rising only 0.6 percent, the survey found.
Mr. Goto and others warned that Japan's own rebound would probably be stunted somewhat by persistent weakness in Japan's banks, which still have trillions of yen in bad loans on their books despite huge write-offs in recent months. Bankruptcies and credit costs are expected to rise in 2002, despite the Bank of Japan's very loose monetary policy, as the banks move to deal with more problem borrowers. As a result, the Tankan survey found that managers expect a 7.6 percent decline in capital investment this year.
The bright side, analysts say, is that ultimately companies will make their investments more judiciously and seek better rates of return. "Higher interest rates will delay a full recovery in the economy," said Mamoru Yamazaki, an economist at Barclays Capital in Tokyo. "But Japanese companies still have too many workers and factories." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); JAPANESE YEN (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SALES 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); FUJITSU LTD (56%); MITSUBISHI RESEARCH INSTITUTE INC (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); FUJ (LSE) (56%); 6702 (TSE) (56%); 3636 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541690 OTHER SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (54%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



20 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Pace of New Factory Orders Is Reported asFastest in 14 Years 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1 

 BODY:
Manufacturing expanded in March as new orders flooded in at the fastest pace in more than 14 years, according to a survey of purchasing managers released today.
 The Institute for Supply Management said its factory index rose to 55.6 last month from 54.7 in February. Any number higher than 50 represents growth, and the back-to-back readings above that level are the first since June-July 2000. The gauge of new orders rose to the highest level since October 1987, driven by increased demand for transportation equipment, furniture, metals and clothing. 
 "It's another sign that the recession is behind us and points to vigorous, broad-based economic growth," said Mark Vitner, an economist at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C.
Manufacturers cut inventories at a record pace during the recession, only to find that consumer spending stayed strong, accelerating in February after surging in the final months of last year. 
Prices paid by manufacturers also rose for the first time in more than a year, the group reported, adding to speculation that Federal Reserve will raise interest rates by midyear in efforts to keep inflation in check.
Separately, the Commerce Department said construction spending rose in February at the fastest pace in a year. The 1.1 percent increase in spending, to $879.4 billion at an annual rate, was led by new homes and came after a rise of 0.8 percent in January. Analysts had expected a climb of 0.6 percent. Home improvement spending rose 5.7 percent after declining 1.3 percent.
The new-orders index, which accounts for about a third of the total manufacturing index, rose to 65.3 last month from 62.8 in February. The index on the backlog of orders rose to 62.5 from 53.
"For the next few months, manufacturers have enough new orders that they are going to have to increase production by hiring new people and using more capacity," said Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers in New York. "This is good for manufacturing and, in the long run, good for the economy."
Manufacturing began to decline in August 2000, preceding the recession that started in March 2001. Manufacturing accounts for about one-sixth of the economy.
The production index fell to 57.8 last month from 61.2. March was nonetheless the fourth consecutive month the index was above 50, the level that signifies production is growing.
Economists had expected a reading of 54.8 in the factory index, based on the median of 53 forecasts in a survey by Bloomberg News. The supply management group, based in Tempe, Ariz., polls more than 400 companies in 20 industries.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Construction Spending"Total construction spending in billions of dollars at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Graph tracks monthly change from Sept. 2000 through Feb. 2002Feb.: +1.1%Jan.: +0.8Dec.: +0.8 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



21 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Corporate FliersAre at Point of Near Revolt Over Airline Fare Policies

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
A snapshot from the business travel trenches:
 William Harvey, a manager at Eastman Kodak, flew from Rochester to Chicago last October. Had he followed the standard business itinerary, leaving on Sunday and returning the following day, he would have paid $798 for the round trip. Instead, he flew to Seattle on Saturday, saw a Mariners game, spent the night, flew back to Chicago, attended his meeting, and flew home. Total fare: $212. 
 "The airline's own rules and fares encourage you to do that," Mr. Harvey said, even though he took up space on several flights.
After years of rising complaints, business travelers' frustration over the inequities of airline pricing has reached a point of near revolt. Fare sales introduced after Sept. 11 to woo back nervous Americans have widened the already yawning gap between the cost of buying a ticket in advance and showing up at the gate at the last minute. Special deals available on the Internet have only added to business fliers' anger.
They are fighting back by any means they can. Some, like Mr. Harvey, are working the system. Others are driving. In perhaps the most common form of retaliation, many are simply staying home. Business travel fell sharply last March as the economy slowed, and then dropped off a ledge after Sept. 11.
And it can be little comfort to airlines that the road warriors who kept flying through the fall now feel betrayed -- repaid for their loyalty with higher costs, greater restrictions and fewer amenities. The latest slap was a decision by the largest carriers to cut most commissions for travel agents, prompting many to raise their service fees and thereby increase the cost to customers.
"I would like to see the airlines act like they want our business," said Steve Kaye, a software company manager in Atlanta. "Between security and no meals on long flights, it ends up being a pretty long day."
Some airlines have responded with lower-cost business fares that do not require a Saturday night stay. But these are Band-Aids on a system that even many industry executives admit is broken. "There is an overriding need to move to a simpler fare structure," said Rono Dutta, the president of UAL, the parent of United Airlines. "People have a hard time making the purchase and feeling good about it."
Even so, airlines have trouble seeing beyond their buckets of red ink. The domestic industry lost a record $7 billion in 2001 and is forecast to lose $3 billion to $4 billion this year. Any experimentation with fares risks widening those losses. 
Though business fares have not actually risen since Sept. 11, they have not come down, either, as leisure fares have. The airlines say lowering last-minute fares only costs them money because it does not stimulate more last-minute purchases, while reducing leisure fares fills more seats.
That may make financial sense, but it makes business travelers see red. "They keep telling me fares are coming down, but I don't see it," said Dean Burri, owner of a South Carolina insurance company who logs 300 flights a year.
Many businesspeople are protesting the stubbornly high rates by spending extra time on the road or booking in advance to cut their travel costs. Research by United showed that the proportion of business travelers flying on business fares has declined to 55 percent from 61 percent two years ago.
The big airlines have also been losing share to low-fare competitors like Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways. At the other end, chartering private business jets has become more attractive to many companies.
Della Maricich, who runs a Seattle company that designs and produces trade show exhibits and graphics, has found her own creative solution. Whenever someone in her organization has to fly on short notice and faces a $2,000 fare, she uses frequent-flier miles. "We have a bank of miles available," she said.
To others, the answer to sky-high walk-up fares is to drive, or simply stay home and rely on alternatives like videoconferencing. "As justified for the expense as you used to have to be, you now need to be hyperjustified," said Mr. Kaye, the software company manager.
The smaller choice of flights and longer waits at airports since Sept. 11 have even pushed some business executives out of the market who would otherwise be willing to pay more for convenience. Mr. Kaye has stopped flying to several Western cities because it takes too much time. "It's not just the high fare but the lost productivity," he said.
Some airlines have made limited pricing concessions to business customers, but critics say those moves have actually added to the complexity of the fare structure and have failed to get to the heart of the problem: the stratospheric rates charged to last-minute travelers.
Two years ago, for example, Northwest Airlines executives realized that many business fliers were willing to stay over a Saturday night rather than pay higher restricted fares. It then lowered its business fares by 40 to 50 percent, a savings roughly equivalent to the cost of spending the extra time on the road. Even so, the tickets have to be ordered 10 to 14 days in advance. Other carriers, including United, AMR's American Airlines and Delta have introduced alternate business fares of their own. 
Earlier this year, Rosenbluth International, a big travel-management company, proposed a more ambitious solution to airlines: cut business fares 30 percent across the board and reduce corporate discounts by the same amount. 
But airline executives countered that such simple formulas would cost them sales. "We just haven't been able to make the economics work," Mr. Bach of Northwest said.
In any case, a new fare structure would be vulnerable to competitive cost-cutting. Carriers have learned that they must match a rival's fare or risk losing market share. 
Last week, America West Airlines lowered its walk-up fares and relaxed restrictions, but because it carries just 3 percent of domestic passengers and attracts relatively few business travelers, analysts doubted that the initiative would do much to shake up the industry.
Kevin P. Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, which lobbies on behalf of large corporate travel managers, says he believes that change will come only when an airline reaches an agreement with some of its largest customers and gets the companies to commit themselves to the new structure.
"Other carriers aren't going to sabotage you if the best customers in that market are behind you," he said.
Business travelers are eager to get the airlines on their side. "Right now it seems to be us against them," Mr. Harvey said. "The bottom line is you have to find ways to make the experience better for the customer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Harvey of Eastman Kodak uses airline rules to his advantage. (Mark Mulville for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (91%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (58%) EASTMAN KODAK CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; HARVEY, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



22 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Arises Over a Push To Change Climate Panel 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
After a year of urging from energy industry lobbyists, the Bush administration is seeking the ouster of an American scientist who for nearly six years has directed an international panel of hundreds of experts assessing global warming, several government officials have said.
 The specialist, Dr. Robert T. Watson, chief scientist of the World Bank, is highly regarded as an atmospheric chemist by many climate experts. He has held the unpaid position of chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change since the fall of 1996. Now his term is expiring and the State Department has chosen not to renominate him to head the panel, which is run under the auspices of the United Nations and the World Meteorological Organization. 
 Dr. Watson is an outspoken advocate of the idea that human actions -- mainly burning oil and coal -- are contributing to global warming and must be changed to avert environmental upheavals. 
Last night, a State Department official said the administration was leaning toward endorsing a scientist from India, which along with other developing countries has been eager for a stronger role in the climate assessments.
But many influential climate experts say they have written to the department supporting Dr. Watson.
One of those letters was sent last month by Dr. Ralph J. Cicerone, an atmospheric scientist who is chancellor of the University of California, Irvine, and chairman of a National Academy of Sciences panel that assessed the international panel's climate analyses last year at the behest of the White House. 
In an e-mail message sent to the State Department, Dr. Cicerone urged the administration not to withdraw its support for Dr. Watson and, if it did, at least to replace him with another atmospheric scientist. 
Otherwise, "such a change would greatly reduce the emphasis on science in I.P.C.C.," he said, referring to the climate panel. He also said it would be "very, very difficult to find anyone better than Watson."
But energy industry lobbyists and some Republican elected officials have criticized Dr. Watson as biased and focused on building a scientific argument to justify cutting the use of coal and oil. In a letter to the White House a year ago, for example, Dr. Arthur G. Randol III, senior environmental adviser for ExxonMobil, said Dr. Watson used leaks of drafts of his panel's climate reports to further his "personal agenda."
"Can Watson be replaced now at the request of the U.S.?" read the letter. A copy was given to The New York Times by the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group. Dr. Randol did not respond yesterday to requests for comment. But White House officials said his letter had no bearing on decisions about the panel.
The only other significant candidate nominated for panel chairman is Dr. Rajendra K. Pachauri, an Indian engineer and economist who is now one of five vice chairmen. He is highly regarded, but many scientists said his lack of grounding in atmospheric science made him an unsuitable choice. 
Nevertheless several lobbyists for energy companies and auto manufacturers are scheduled to meet with senior State Department officials this afternoon, when they are expected to press the administration to endorse Dr. Pachauri. 
One of the lobbyists said that in a two-man race, it was necessary for industry to make a choice -- and that the choice should not be Dr. Watson. 
The panel's assessments of climate change underpinned negotiations leading to two climate treaties, the latest of them the Kyoto Protocol, which calls for cuts in emissions of heat-trapping gases. President Bush rejected it a year ago.
The panel's findings have been criticized as overly dire by energy industry officials and a few scientists. But many other experts have endorsed them, including the panel convened by the National Academy of Sciences. 
Campaigners at private environmental groups yesterday attacked the efforts to replace Dr. Watson. 
Some climate panel scientists said that other countries were planning to push for Dr. Watson to remain, and that it might be possible to craft a compromise in which the two scientists served as co-chairmen.
In an interview, Dr. Watson said the most important thing was to keep the panel from becoming divided into factions. "We've always worked well by consensus," he said. "I would hope it does not come down to a divisive vote." 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about efforts to replace the chairman of an international panel on climate change referred imprecisely to a letter sent to the White House a year ago by Dr. Arthur G. Randol III, senior environmental adviser for ExxonMobil. In the letter, Dr. Randol introduced an attached memo and wrote, "I will call to discuss the recommendations regarding the team that can better represent the Bush Administration interests." It was the memo, rather than his cover note, that accused the chairman of using the panel's reports to further his "personal agenda" and asked whether he could "be replaced now at the request of the U.S." The memo was unsigned, and a spokesman for ExxonMobil said he was unable to say who wrote it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%) WEATHER; ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AIR POLLUTION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; GLOBAL WARMING 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (57%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REVKIN, ANDREW C; WATSON, ROBERT T (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



23 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Youth May Change to Guilty Plea In Dartmouth Professors' Deaths 

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 1 

 BODY:
A teenager who pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity in the killings of two Dartmouth professors intends to change his plea, most likely to guilty or no contest, lawyers involved with the case said today. 
 Robert Tulloch, 18, one of two young men charged in the stabbing deaths of the professors, Half and Susanne Zantop, last year, will be entering a new plea on Thursday, the Grafton County Superior Court in Haverhill, N.H., announced today. 
 The announcement did not say what Mr. Tulloch's plea would be. But the court clerk, Bob Muh, said the plea change would mean that Mr. Tulloch would not go to trial. 
Neither prosecutors nor defense lawyers would discuss the plea. A lawyer involved with the case said Mr. Tulloch would most likely enter a guilty plea because a judge in such a serious case would be highly unlikely to accept a plea of no contest. 
In a statement, the state attorney general, Philip T. McLaughlin, said prosecutors had made no deal with Mr. Tulloch for a lighter sentence. First-degree murder carries a mandatory life sentence.
Mr. Tulloch has been scheduled to go on trial on April 22 on charges of first-degree murder, murder in the commission of a felony robbery and conspiracy to commit murder. The other teenager charged in the killings, James J. Parker, 17, pleaded guilty in December to a charge of being an accomplice to second-degree murder in the death of Ms. Zantop and agreed to testify against Mr. Tulloch. 
Mr. Parker is to be sentenced on Thursday.
Mr. Parker's lawyer, Cathy Green, said she was confident that after Mr. Tulloch's plea and Mr. Parker's sentencing "the case will be concluded."
An indictment unsealed in February charged that the teenagers, friends from Chelsea, Vt., came up with a scheme to rob and murder people in the summer of 2000. The indictment said the two had tried in vain over several months to talk their way into four other houses in New Hampshire and Vermont, where they intended to kill people after having stolen their A.T.M. cards and passwords.
The teenagers tried to enter the houses by pretending that their car had broken down or pretending that they were conducting an environmental survey for school, the indictment said. The residents of the other houses were not at home or would not let them in. 
But on Jan. 27, 2001, Mr. Zantop, a professor of economic geology, allowed the teenagers in to conduct their survey, and the indictment says Mr. Tulloch asked Mr. Zantop several questions while Mr. Parker pretended to take notes. Later that day, Mr. Zantop, 62, and Ms. Zantop, 55, the head of German studies at Dartmouth, were found stabbed to death in their study.
Investigators have said that Mr. Parker's fingerprints were found on one knife sheath, that a bloody print matching Mr. Tulloch's left boot was found in the Zantops' house and that Ms. Zantop's DNA was found on a knife. Investigators have also said two knives stained with the Zantops' blood were found under the bed in Mr. Tulloch's bedroom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (92%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); HOMICIDE (90%); INSANITY DEFENSE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); ROBBERY (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); FELONIES (78%); FINGERPRINTING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); JUDGES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (72%); DEATHS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (94%) DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 

PERSON: ZANTOP, HALF; ZANTOP, SUZANNE; PARKER, JAMES J; TULLOCH, ROBERT; BELLUCK, PAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) HANOVER (NH)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



24 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Three Firefighters Say Flag Came From Yacht 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
So the flag did come from the yacht, after all.
 Nearly seven months after three firefighters raised an American flag over the ruins of the World Trade Center, the three have signed an affidavit stating that the flag was removed from a charter yacht moored near the trade center at the time of the attack. 
 With the affidavit, which was signed late last week, the owners of the Star of America yacht, Shirley B. Dreifus and her husband, Spiros E. Kopelakis, can now establish official provenance over a flag that became an instant icon after a photographer for The Record of Hackensack, N.J., captured the moment on Sept. 11.
The purpose of establishing ownership, the couple told a reporter for The New York Times last month, is to have some say in ensuring that the flag is used in a respectful and appropriate manner -- in a museum, for example, or a downtown memorial. A far less important purpose, they added, is the possibility that the enhanced value of the flag, which presumably would fetch thousands of dollars at auction, could lead to a modest charitable deduction on their taxes. 
"We're glad," Ms. Dreifus said yesterday. "My husband's really happy. It means a lot to him."
Practically speaking, the affidavit figures to have little, if any, impact on the flag's immediate future.
Last week, the flag returned to New York after spending several months overseas flying on military ships involved in the war in Afghanistan. Yesterday morning, the flag was hoisted above City Hall in a solemn, wordless ceremony attended by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, city officials and uniformed personnel. And for the next week, the flag is scheduled to remain at City Hall, before being displayed at police stations, firehouses and perhaps Grand Central Terminal.
"We'll do everything in our power to make it as available as possible to as many people as possible," said Michael J. Handy, director of the Mayor's Office of Veterans' Affairs.
Before September, the 4-foot-by-6-foot flag was a standard American flag, purchased for about $50, attached to the Star of America, a 130-foot-long, three-level yacht that was moored at the North Cove marina on the Hudson River.
But on Sept. 11, after the terrorist attacks, the boat became caked with debris from the trade center. And shortly after 5 p.m., according to the affidavit, three firefighters -- Dan McWilliams, George Johnson and Billy Eisengrein -- noticed the flag on the boat, removed the flag and its pole and, after walking east toward ground zero, raised the flag atop a much larger flagpole.
Earlier this year, Ms. Dreifus and Mr. Kopelakis came forward to claim ownership, both for the sake of history and to enable them to donate the flag officially to the city. The flag also conjures up strong personal sentiments, because the couple first met in the trade center and their yacht-chartering company had offices on the 89th floor of the north tower.
Last week, the firefighters concurred with the couple's claim after reviewing some photographs and other materials, said William P. Kelly, a lawyer who represents the three firefighters. And while the affidavit is actually still in the mail, no legal complications are expected, according to Glen T. Oxton, a lawyer with Healy & Baillie who represents Ms. Dreifus and Mr. Kopelakis.
It is still too early to say what, if anything, the couple -- who have lost more than $1 million because of the economic impact of Sept. 11 -- will do about the flag's potential tax benefit. What is more important, instead, is the prospect of arranging some kind of ceremony involving them, the flag and the Fire Department.
"We'd love to be a part of something like that," Ms. Dreifus said yesterday. "We'd love to meet the firemen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The flag that was raised by three firefighters at the World Trade Center site on Sept. 11 was the focus of a ceremony at City Hall yesterday. (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); MAYORS (69%); VETERANS (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); AIRLINES (63%) TERRORISM; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) CHEN, DAVID W; DREIFUS, SHIRLEY B; KOPELAKIS, SPIROS E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



25 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Return of the Suit, Tentatively; 
Some Men Are Dressing Up Again, but Casual Still Lives

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
After 12 years as a lawyer, Mike Godwin finally broke down last month and dressed up.
 Employed by a string of Internet law and advocacy groups over those years, Mr. Godwin owned just one suit, which he proudly did not wear. But with the dot-com world in tatters, Mr. Godwin decided to look for more lucrative lines of legal work, which meant he "might have to interview or go to court or something," he said. So he went to Men's Wearhouse and bought three suits, paying $1,100 for the entire purchase. 
 That is the good news and the bad news for makers of tailored men's clothing. While men are buying more of their products, market research shows that in dollar terms, sales are continuing to decline. 
Suit makers, suit sellers and the press have been trumpeting the return of business formality for a year now. Last year, the number of pieces of men's tailored clothing sold at department stores rose 12 percent, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm, and ties and suits have continued to move off store racks briskly this spring. In New York City, the shift was accentuated in February when Lehman Brothers, the investment banking firm, renounced business casual attire. 
Yet even if men are dressing up for work again, they are not exactly investing heavily in an expensive new wardrobe. Not only are suits less expensive, but early data suggest that men may be trying to take the formal edge off their tailored pants and jackets by pairing them with relaxed accessories like ties with unconventional patterns, dress shirts in eye-grabbing colors like lime green and orange, and crepe-soled shoes -- all of which can cost much less than a Hickey Freeman suit.
"It is the return towards the suit but not the return of the suit," explained Marshal Cohen, president of NPDFashionworld Consumer, an online marketing research firm which tracks consumer and retail purchases for the apparel and footware industries "Men are going back tentatively. They are not buying a fancy name when they can make do with a pair of dress pants or a less expensive label. The day of the $1,000 suit is over. Casualization was too long in coming and too entrenched."
Any movement toward formality is eagerly welcomed by men's clothing retailers. "Business casual went way too far; it became an excuse for men to dress like slobs in a rumpled pair of pants and a cheap shirt," said Larry Ginsberg, owner and partner of Parsow's fine clothing and sportswear in Denver, who like other haberdashers, saw his bottom line suffer as suit sales plummeted.
Some retailers have gone beyond cheering for a change and made significant adjustments to their inventory. Rothman's, a men's clothing store in New York, has increased its suit orders by 25 percent over last year and marked down sport coats, which the store previously had not included in annual sales, by 40 percent for the first time in a decade. Investors are taking the same view, sending the stocks of men's tailored clothing companies like Jos. A. Banks to record highs in recent weeks.
Yet so far, the bet on dressing up has yet to pay off big. At Brooks Brothers, sales of dress shirts are up sharply from last year, but suit sales have been more mixed, said Mark Shulman, chief operating officer of Retail Brand Alliance, the owners of Brooks Brothers. "After Lehman's announcement we heard from dozens and dozens of corporations like Pepsi looking to do dressing seminars with us," he said. "I can't tell you that it has changed dramatically, but I don't think it will happen overnight."
Moreover, it is unclear how far the trend extends outside New York, according to Dan McCambell, vice president and men's fashion director at Saks Fifth Avenue. "In New York City we are seeing significant sales increase in suits, but I cannot yet say if it is translating to the rest of the country," he said. 
Anecdotally, companies that never totally let go of the suit, like law firms and banks, are becoming more formal of their own accord, pushed largely by competitive concerns in a poor economy. "People are moving back to more formal dress," said one Los Angeles-based investment banker. It started at the end of last year, he said, after the first wave of layoffs in his industry began. "In the beginning, the joke was that you had to start wearing a suit to work, because you never knew if you'd be going on a job interview later in the day."
Yet for all the talk of the new formality, few firms are officially following Lehman's dictat, even on Wall Street, where it was expected to set off a domino effect. "Business casual will continue on a case-by- case basis," said Russell Sherman, a spokesman for Bear Stearns.
Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse First Boston, said, "We have no plans to return to a formal code." 
If the evidence is mixed at white- shoe financial firms, there is even less evidence that smaller companies or new-economy businesses are dressing up again. The Society of Human Resource Management is still compiling the 2001 numbers for its annual survey of attire at 754 companies, but the preliminary data suggest that the percentage of companies who described employees' customary attire as "casual all the time" actually increased 4 percentage points in 2001 over the year before, to 49 percent.
Marty Staff, chief executive of Hugo Boss, whose suit business remained hot even when cappuccino machines and dogs were almost as common in the office as ties, insists that the clock cannot be turned back. "Certain companies want to reinstate the uniform, but men want to dress in a manner that is less uptight. Our suits are popular because they are comfortable and flattering and can be worn with T-shirts or sports shirts."
Besides, even if sales are increasing, they have a long way to go before they approach the levels of a decade ago. "At the height, in 1992, we had $12 million in sales," said Bud Konheim, chief executive of Nicole Miller. "Then sales came down in the casual dressing years and last year they were $2 million -- and remember we have anti-institutional, irreverent ties. Now tie sales are gaining 10 percent a month, but that is off a very low base." 
Another problem for suit sellers comes from how men buy clothing. Some 91 percent of men say the main reason they buy a new suit is to replace one that is worn out, according to surveys done by NPD. That means men who are dressing up again may just go to their closets and pull out suits from 1995 instead of buying something new.
That is why retailers are hoping to juice men's tailored clothing sales by adding a bit of outrageous fashion twist. "We think it will be a restoration with a new interpretation because men have been allowed to have more self-expression," said David Wolfe, creative director of Doneger Group, a retail and fashion consulting firm. "The fashion is going to be spin-doctored. There are going to be more extensively colored shirts available than ever before this spring, in colors like orange, lime green and turquoise blue. Macy's main floor will look like a rainbow."
Bryon Colby, 30, an independent wireless, media and technology consultant, in New York, says he is not averse to the idea of lime green. "The way you make your mark is to dress casually but spruce it up with colors." But he does not plan to wear it with a new suit. "As a sales person I wear what my clients wear, and in telecommunications a suit and tie are still out of place."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ryan Wick, left, tries on a suit in Rothman's, a clothing store in Manhattan. He is assisted by Mark Rubenstein, a salesman. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Casually dressed pedestrians pass by suits placed in the front window of Rothman's in Manhattan. Rothman's has adjusted its inventory and increased its suit orders by 25 percent over last year. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MEN (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (88%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (74%); APPAREL MFG (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%) APPAREL; SUITS (APPAREL); INDUSTRY PROFILES; RESEARCH; MEN; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: MW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (57%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (57%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (57%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



26 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
The savings and loan debacle may be long gone, but the market consequences refuse to die.

BYLINE:  By Patrick McGeehan 

 BODY:
IN a stock-market remake of "Night of the Living Dead," shares of long-gone savings banks have sprung to life as investors speculate that the federal government will have to pay dearly for mishandling the savings and loan crisis of the 1980's.
 Thrilled by a recent federal court award of $132 million to the owner of one savings and loan and perched on the edges of their seats waiting for more, investors have bid up stocks of savings banks that were acquired years ago. Shares of one, formerly known as the Benj. Franklin Savings and Loan Association of Portland, Ore., jumped more than 40 percent in the last week to close yesterday at $12.10 in electronic trading. 
 Shares of a savings and loan based in Philadelphia and known as Meritor Savings Bank had sat at about $1.60 all year, until they jumped as high as $2.52 last week on hopes a favorable ruling was imminent. Yesterday, they closed at $2.35 a share in electronic trading.
But the moral of this story may be that investors should not play with dead things. The United States Court of Federal Claims disappointed Franklin shareholders late yesterday when it released a long-awaited decision and denied their claims of lost profit and restitution.
The judge, Loren A. Smith, said that the shareholders were entitled to recover the lost value of the Franklin franchise. That amount, the judge said, was $30 million to $47 million -- a fraction of the $944 million the plaintiffs sought.
When the government seized the Franklin S.& L. in 1990, it had about 7.7 million shares outstanding. A $47 million award, if it were received today, would amount to only about $6 a share, well short of the prices of recent trades.
But out of any award would come litigation costs of $3.5 million, legal fees and, possibly a large tax payment to the Internal Revenue Service.
"It's hard to know what shareholders will get," said Don S. Willner, a Portland lawyer for the Franklin plaintiffs. "It's possible they will get nothing. It's very disappointing to us."
Mr. Willner said he would recommend to his clients that they appeal the decision, but he estimated that would drag the 12-year-old matter out for another 18 months.
If the plaintiffs do not appeal, the government might. It has appealed other decisions in a large group of lawsuits over what was known as "supervisory good will." The cases, about 120 in all, stem from the handling by federal bank regulators of the savings and loan crisis.
When soaring interest rates pushed the industry to the brink of bankruptcy in the early 1980's, regulators encouraged healthier institutions to buy failing ones. To make the purchases palatable, the regulators allowed the buyers to book some of the purchase price as "supervisory good will," a balance sheet asset that could be paid down gradually.
But in 1989, Congress passed a law, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, known as Firrea, that wiped away the supervisory good will and left some savings and loans like Franklin insolvent. The government sold the assets of Franklin to Bank of America, leaving shareholders with apparently worthless stock certificates.
Managers and owners of many institutions, whether seized or surviving, sued over what they decried as an unfair rewriting of the rules. Through most of the 1990's, those suits produced little more than legal briefs and bills as government lawyers argued that no damage had been done to the savings and loans.
But lately, the tide appeared to be turning as judges started to favor the institutions' arguments. The big shift came in April 1999, when Judge Smith ruled that Glendale Federal Bank, which was a large California savings and loan was entitled to $909 million in restitution and damages from the federal government.
On March 22, another judge in the Court of Federal Claims, Bohdan A. Futey, decided that James Fail, the owner of Bluebonnet Savings Bank, a Dallas-based savings and loan, was entitled to $132 million. That ruling ignited buying last week of shares of nonexistent institutions, including Franklin and Meritor.
Whether and how the buyers of those shares, which are not listed and trade only electronically through a few dealers, would ever recover any value is not clear to analysts who follow S.& L. stocks.
"Those are kind of ghost securities," said Charlotte A. Chamberlain, an analyst at Jefferies & Company in Los Angeles. "That's a very, very tenuous piece of equity to hold."
Some big savings and loans, including Glendale and a New York institution, the Dime Savings Bank, sold warrants that hold a claim on any awards they might receive from litigation over supervisory good will. Ms. Chamberlain once recommended buying some of them, but she no longer does. She said yesterday's decision was not good news for the litigation-tracking warrants.
"Ultimately though, I just think that the preponderance of sentiment is in favor of the government, and the likelihood of any of these thrifts ever getting anything is de minimis," said Ms. Chamberlain, a former savings and loan executive and former regulator. "For better odds, try Lotto."
In any of these cases, a victory can seem Pyrrhic. Judge Smith said the Franklin shareholders should recover the market value of its stock the day before the Firrea legislation was enacted. By then, the stocks of many institutions had already sunk.
Even Mr. Willner, the lawyer for Franklin shareholders, wondered why people had been buying the shares in recent years. 
"Normally speaking, people determine the value of a stock by the company's earnings and prospects," he said. "Here we had no earnings and no prospects, except for this lawsuit. All the people who were buying and selling the stock were trying to guess what the judge would do, which is an unusual way to determine value." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); VERDICTS (76%); BONDS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) BANKS AND BANKING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CHEVIOT FINANCIAL CORP (57%); MERITOR SAVINGS BANK FA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS (55%) MERITOR SAVINGS BANK; BENJAMIN FRANKLIN SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSN 

TICKER: CHEV (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%) OREGON, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



27 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: Tower Disaster Echoes Lessons Of Earlier Fires 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON and JAMES GLANZ 

 BODY:
A New York City skyscraper burns out of control, fireproofing is absent or fails, structural steel warps and snaps, floors begin to collapse, workers in the building die.
 The date is Aug. 5, 1970. The skyscraper is called 1 New York Plaza, less than a mile from where the World Trade Center towers were rising into the clouds. 
 The fire and collapse of the World Trade Center last Sept. 11 in many ways stand alone, both in the terrifying attack and in the incomprehensible death toll. The first federal assessment of the trade center disaster, which The New York Times obtained last week, has made clear that there may have been no reasonable precautions that could have stopped the towers from collapsing once they were struck and huge fires broke out. 
But in the same report, parallels between the demise of the twin towers and deadly fires in other high-rises in the United States since 1970 are disturbingly apparent and at times, explicitly drawn.
After the 1 New York Plaza fire, federal investigators cited flaws in light fireproofing sprayed onto steel structural supports that had fallen off or flaked away, leaving beams vulnerable to failure and collapse in the superintense heat. After a fire at the First Interstate Bank in Los Angeles in 1988, the same federal agency warned that radios did not work properly in steel-frame skyscrapers.
And a huge high-rise fire in Philadelphia in 1991 led federal experts to conclude that tests for assessing structural integrity in fires, dating back to the early 20th century, were technically primitive and unreliable for the high-temperature blazes in offices filled with plastic computers and synthetic furniture.
The assessment of the trade center collapse, by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the American Society of Civil Engineers, does not draw conclusions about whether even the best-designed fire suppression system could have saved the buildings. The report also credits the structural design of the towers for surviving the initial impact. But it cites the same hazards identified by federal authorities in the earlier fires as contributing to the death and destruction on Sept. 11.
"Spray-applied fireproofing may be vulnerable to damage from blasts and impacts," says a draft of the FEMA report, adding that failure of support structures protected with this fireproofing "is likely critical to the ultimate building failure."
A New York City inquiry has already revealed that emergency personnel in the trade center on Sept. 11 were at times unable to communicate because of radio problems, and the FEMA report says that the nation's standard fire test "does not reflect the behavior of floor and roof constructions that are exposed to uncontrolled fire in real buildings."
These echoes show that while the trade center demise was like no other disaster, the reports on the earlier fires warned that the same dangers could cost many lives.
"It fits, obviously, on the extreme end of the spectrum, because this is the worst building disaster we've had, ever," said Donald Bliss, vice president of the National Association of State Fire Marshals. But he added, "Are there indeed the proper fire protection systems and capabilities in place to react to a catastrophic fire, irregardless of the cause?"
It's a question that firefighters, in New York City at least, had been asking long before Sept. 11, and they see in that disaster a horrible validation of their long apprehensions about the dangers of fighting major fires and performing evacuations in modern, lightweight high-rises.
"With the old buildings, you know the building's going to hold," said Neil P. Winberry, a retired New York fire captain. "You've got time to work." After the city fire code was changed in 1968, allowing a widespread shift from masonry fireproofing to a light, spray-on product, Mr. Winberry said, "we could not understand how this was going to work; we had no faith in it."
Over the past century, calls for reform in the byzantine world of fire protection and building standards have far exceeded substantive changes. Yet there are already signs that the calls for change may be heard this time.
In New York City, a post-Sept. 11 task force began meeting last month to examine the adequacy of city codes and regulations on fire protection, structural integrity of buildings and emergency exits. 
David A. Lucht, director of the Center for Fire Safety Studies at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, said economic pressures along with the effectiveness of sprinkler systems for smaller fires had actually led to a weakening of standards for fireproofing that is applied as insulation to structural steel.
"The trend towards cutting back" on such fireproofing has been there for several decades, Professor Lucht said, describing the combination of steel insulation and sprinklers as "belt and suspenders."
High-rise disasters are rare. But the particular vulnerabilities identified at the trade center and in other high-rise fires might force modifications that could greatly reduce catastrophes, perhaps even in terrorist attacks. Conclusions drawn from extensive data gathered from damaged or destroyed buildings around the twin towers -- structures that caught fire but were not hit by an airplane -- are reinforcing the case for changes.
"It may be decided that we need to go back and heavy up the belt and heavy up the suspenders," Professor Lucht said.
The most frightful confirmation of that view might be seen from inside a burning tower. Shortly before 6 p.m. on Aug. 5, 1970, an elevator carrying two security guards and a telephone technician opened unexpectedly on the 33rd floor of 1 New York Plaza, a 50-story skyscraper so new that some tenants were still moving in. The elevator had been called to the floor by one of the old-style buttons that lighted up from the touch of a warm finger. Flames and smoke rushed into the elevator and forced the men to the floor.
Two died before rescuers could arrive. The fire rushed up ventilation shafts from the 33rd floor, where it melted the metallic bases of typists' chairs, reaching the 35th floor. Light, spray-on fireproofing, which at some point had been knocked away, left steel supports for the floors exposed to the blaze. They twisted and pulled away from their connections, initiating collapses that stopped only because the concrete slabs of the floors refused to give way.
Although the building stood, the fire burned for more than six hours. The heat-activated elevator call buttons were phased out after the investigative report cited their dangers, but not all of its warnings were heeded. "The protection of steel members in a really fire-resistive building must be accomplished by materials that cannot be readily removed or damaged," the report said in a harbinger of language that has reappeared in the trade center draft, even though the formula for the twin towers spray-on fireproofing was somewhat different.
"It is apparent that sprayed fiber may not be universally applied to the proper thickness, that proper adhesion to steel may not take place and that the protection may be removed in many locations," the report on the 1970 fire said.
A 1988 high-rise fire in Los Angeles sounded another prescient alarm. Flames from the blaze at the 62-story First Interstate Bank building, then the tallest tower west of the Sears Tower in Chicago, lapped up the side of the building, gutting offices from the 12th to the 16th floor.
By all accounts, the response was fast and well organized, as firefighters quickly eliminated a water-supply problem by linking mobile pumpers into the building's system. But radios did not transmit clear signals because of the skyscraper's steel frame. And with so many firefighters responding, the radio system was overwhelmed.
At the height of the blaze, a firefighter had to smash open a 10th-floor window to communicate with a commander at the street level. The fire burned for three and a half hours, killing a maintenance worker and injuring 35 others.
Engineers later discovered that the building survived the fire with surprisingly limited structural damage; credit was given to especially thick layers of a relatively heavy, cementlike fireproofing that had been applied to structural steel. The World Trade Center had the much lighter, easily dislodged fireproofing on the floor braces whose failure probably initiated the collapse.
And despite the warning on radios in high-rises, the problems still were not completely solved, at least in New York: radio transmissions were spotty in the twin towers, and an order to evacuate the towers before they collapsed was not received by many firefighters.
No modern fire strikes as strong a resonance with the trade center as the 19-hour, eight-floor fire at 1 Meridian Plaza in Philadelphia. Three firefighters died, few compared with the 343 firefighters who died at the World Trade Center. But just as on Sept. 11, multiple fire protection systems failed, were overwhelmed or were simply knocked out of service.
"Perhaps the most striking lesson to be learned from the 1 Meridian Plaza high-rise fire is what can happen when everything goes wrong," said the FEMA report on the fire.
The water supply was inadequate; although the building remained standing, huge floor beams heated and sagged as much as 36 inches, despite their fireproofing; sprinklers and smoke detectors were sporadic at best; electrical power was lost and the building was plunged into darkness.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "High-Rise Fires, Safety Failures"Investigations into three decades of high-rise fires have identified failures in fire safety systems that contributed to the severity of the blazes. Several of these same failures occurred on Sept. 11 and widened the extent and severity of the disaster. SIMILAR FAILURE AT WORLD TRADE CENTER IN SEPTEMBER 2001 1 New York PlazaAUG. 5, 1970Fifty-story building in Lower Manhattan, near the Staten Island ferry terminal. BURNED -- Heavy fire damage on 33rd, 34th floors; minor fire damage on 35.DURATION OF FIRE -- More than 6 hours.CASUALTIES -- Two maintenance workers killed; 35 people injured. SOME FAILURESHeat-activated elevators, which stopped on a fire floor.Spray-on fireproofing flaked away or had been removed by mechanical workers.No sprinklers on the floors that burned.Flexible nonmetallic ducts, piercing floors, allowed fire to spread between floors; ducts were for air-conditioning ventilation. First Interstate BankMAY 4 AND 5, 1988Sixty-two-story building in downtown Los Angeles, corner of Wilshire Boulevard and Hope Street. BURNED -- From the 12th to 16th floor.DURATION OF FIRE -- 3.5 hours.CASUALTIES -- One person killed, 35 people injured. SOME FAILURESElevator stopped at a fire floor; person trying to escape was killed: the door opened into a burning lobby.Water pressure failed early in fires; fixed later.Sprinkler system was present but not turned on.Radios overtaxed and didn't work well.Telephones inoperative.An emergency phone system linking all floors with the lobby also proved to be inadequate. 1 Meridian PlazaFEB. 23, 1991Thirty-eight-story building in Philadelphia, near City Hall. BURNED -- Gutted 8 floors. Fire started on 22nd floor. Fire spread to 30th floor where it was stopped by 10 automatic sprinklers (building did not have full sprinkler installation).DURATION OF FIRE -- More than 19 hours.CASUALTIES -- Three firefighters died while trying to ventilate the center stair tower; their bodies were found on the 28th floor. They died of smoke inhalation. SOME FAILURESSimultaneous failure of most fire protection and emergency systems.No working sprinklers on the floors that burned.Analysis showed that the standard fire test on insulated steel did not reflect the real conditions in high-rise fires.Incomplete detector coverage; slow notice to Fire Department as a result.Lost electricity; fire knocked out electrical power risers.Natural gas emergency generator failed. (Sources: Federal Emergency Management Agency; New York Board of Fire Underwriters)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); HIJACKING (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); FIRES (73%); TERRORISM (71%) BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); FIRES AND FIREMEN; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); DESIGN; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TESTS AND TESTING; PLASTICS; SYNTHETICS 

COMPANY: FIRST INTERSTATE BANK OF COMMERCE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (84%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (59%) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; PHILADELPHIA (PA); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



28 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: State Finishes Its Fiscal Year With Money In the Bank 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 1 

 BODY:
The state finished its fiscal year on Sunday in better financial shape than the Pataki administration had predicted in the dark days after Sept. 11, with about $2.6 billion in the bank.
 But Gov. George E. Pataki has already proposed spending $2 billion of that cushion to help close what his budget officials predict will be a $5.7 billion shortfall in revenues over the next 12 months. 
 State spending continued to rise last year, despite the recession, the terrorist attack and a seven-month budget battle. All told, the state spent $84.5 billion over the last 12 months, about 6 percent more than it did the previous year. Not counting federal grants and subsidies, the state spent $56.9 billion, about 5 percent above the last fiscal year, budget officials said. 
Over the same period of time, revenue plummeted. The state collected $1.9 billion less in taxes than in the previous year, a drop of about 4 percent, officials said. The governor was forced to slow down spending in the last four months and to use up at least $700 million of the surpluses he had built up over the last two years to avoid ending the year in the red, budget officials said.
"We ended the fiscal year virtually on target with our overall financial plan estimates," the budget director, Carole E. Stone, said.
The amount the state spent did not include about $700 million in federal disaster relief the administration has passed on to New York City for the cleanup of the World Trade Center site and related expenses. 
In November, Mr. Pataki predicted the drop-off in state tax revenue could be as much as $3 billion for the fiscal year that just ended, but the economic picture has brightened somewhat since then, producing the $1.9 billion tax decrease.
A month later, the governor announced a hiring freeze and other cuts to hold down spending, but in the end those efforts only pared state-expenditures by about $200 million, the final numbers show.
In January, the governor unveiled an $88 billion plan for the year that began today that relies heavily on spending most of the state's remaining reserves and persuading the federal government to contribute about $3 billion more in aid. The proposed budget calls for some belt-tightening, continuing the hiring freeze and an early-retirement offer to generate about $1 billion in savings.
Since then, however, the governor has not been able to reach an agreement with legislative leaders on estimating revenue. The Democrats in control of the Assembly have predicted the economy would turn around later this year and tax collections would rise, yielding an additional $599 million above the governor's forecast. The Senate Republicans have said the increase would be closer to $370 million.
As late as last month, Mr. Pataki was predicting that state tax revenues might fall even further than he had predicted in January, by another $500 million. The final tally of the last budget year's decrease, released today, however, showed the tax collections were down about $225 million from his January estimates, and spending, which he largely controls, was about $250 million less than he predicted.
"The gloom and doom just never materialized," one legislative budget analyst said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "We are in very good shape." 
The Democrats in the Assembly and the Republicans in the Senate both said the governor's final tax-collection numbers confirmed their predictions and expressed hope they would serve as a catalyst in negotiations over next year's budget. The governor is to meet with the legislative leaders in New York City later this week. The deadline is technically today, but the Legislature has not passed a budget on time in 18 years.
"We just think it should give us the impetus to close and get a budget quickly," John McArdle, a spokesman for the Republican Senate majority, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); DISASTER RELIEF (64%); GOVERNORS (58%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); GRANTS & GIFTS (54%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



29 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Official Alters Plan for Debt Crises 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Four months after proposing what amounted to an international bankruptcy tribunal for countries embroiled in debt crises, Anne O. Krueger, the first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, has offered a revised plan intended to answer her critics.
 Dr. Krueger's original plan provided for a cessation of claims against a country with a debt crisis. It also called for interim financing from the I.M.F. and then a fund-supervised voting process to determine which creditors would be repaid, when and how much. 
 Speaking last night at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, Dr. Krueger tried to quiet two sets of critics: those who faulted her original plan for allowing the fund, usually a creditor itself, to oversee a country's revamping, and those who argued that private markets alone could prevent the chaos of debt crises in countries using special bond contracts.
Early reactions to Dr. Krueger's comments suggested that she had succeeded more in dealing with the first set of critics. In her new proposal, the fund would no longer have sole control of procedures that could stop claims on a crisis-ridden country. The fund would approve a cessation initially, but a committee of creditors, once organized, would take control of monitoring a country's finances during revamping. In addition, the fund's loans might not be included in a bankruptcy settlement.
"Now, there is very little role for the I.M.F. here," said Sebastian Edwards, a professor of international economics at the University of California in Los Angeles. "It almost removes the I.M.F. from the center of the whole action."
Private-sector critics were not convinced, however, that a fund-sponsored bankruptcy mechanism was needed at all. Charles Dallara, managing director of the Institute of International Finance, a global association of financial institutions, did not see proof of the chaos that Dr. Krueger said could result from the presence of "an increasingly diverse and diffuse creditor community" involved in debt crises.
"Empirical evidence is lacking," he said. In recent crises in Latin America and Southeast Asia, "the lack of a global treaty did not prevent private creditors from cooperating."
"We really believe that there are market-based approaches that have many advantages over her approach," Mr. Dallara added. He listed various types of contractual provisions for international bonds which, he said, would "enhance the prospects of orderly restructuring."
In a conference call, Dr. Krueger countered that such provisions would be "awkward instruments to use across creditor claims of different bond classes," as well as for debts of other types, like bank loans.
To bring her ideas to fruition, Dr. Krueger must first convince the Bush administration. Her plan requires 85 percent of the fund's shareholders to vote for an amendment of its bylaws, and the United States holds just over 17 percent of the votes.
Yet the Bush administration has so far endorsed market-based solutions ahead of a larger role for the fund. The administration has also shown a dislike of international treaties, and Dr. Krueger's plan requires one. But Dr. Krueger said she expected at least a couple of years to pass before the fund would be in a position to amend its bylaws.
Even so, at least one expert viewed Dr. Krueger's remarks as a milestone. "This is a very different document from what we saw on Nov. 26," Professor Edwards said. "The real news here is the tremendous willingness that these people are showing to listen and to change," he said, calling Dr. Krueger the core of a "new I.M.F." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (83%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS 

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL; KRUEGER, ANNE O 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



30 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Wild Animal Disease Spreads in Midwest 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, April 1 

 BODY:
New discoveries of diseased wildlife in Colorado, Nebraska and Wisconsin are raising fears throughout the middle of the country that a problem state officials once thought to be relatively isolated may be far more widespread.
 In all three states, recent tests have produced positive results for chronic wasting disease, a fatal neurological disorder, in wild animals outside areas where the disease was already known to exist. 
 While similar to mad cow disease, which is blamed for the deaths of more than 100 people in Europe, chronic wasting disease has so far not proved to be harmful to humans, although wildlife experts discourage people from eating affected animals. The disease attacks the animal's brain, causing the animal to become emaciated and lose bodily functions. 
For more than two decades, scientists have found animals with wasting disease -- mule deer, white-tailed deer, black-tailed deer and elk -- only in certain parts of northeastern Colorado, southeastern Wyoming and southwestern Nebraska as well as small areas of Montana, South Dakota, Kansas and Oklahoma. In 1997, the disease began appearing in elk raised on farms for food and antlers and for hunting preserves. 
The latest test results indicate, however, that the disease is spreading, causing new concerns about how it moves and what its financial impact might be on rural communities that rely heavily on hunting for their economic stability.
Lynn Creekmore, a veterinarian with the Animal and Plant Heath Inspection Service of the United States Agriculture Department, said the discovery of new cases in Nebraska represented a spreading of the disease. But in Wisconsin and Colorado, Ms. Creekmore added, "we don't have a clear explanation of how it got there."
In all three states, officials are alarmed. 
"We're in a crisis mode," said Sarah Shapiro-Hurley, a deputy administrator for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. "Hunting is a big thing here. People come from all over the country to hunt deer in Wisconsin."
The visitors spend lots of money, especially the 600,000 hunters who descend on Wisconsin for the nine-day deer season in late November. Ms. Shapiro-Hurley says deer hunting has become a $2.6 billion industry in Wisconsin, where chronic wasting disease was unknown until an Iowa laboratory in February completed tests on samples collected over the previous few years.
The results stunned state officials, Ms. Shapiro-Hurley said, showing that 3 of the first 82 tests from animals southwest of Madison, the capital, were positive, making them the first animals with chronic wasting disease ever found east of the Mississippi River. Last week, two more tests proved positive, and more examinations are under way.
"Never in a million years did we expect to find a disease problem," Ms. Shapiro-Hurley said.
In Colorado, Gov. Bill Owens said last week that state officials for the first time found a diseased wild deer on the western side of the Continental Divide, near Craig, a discovery that stunned state officials and put at risk dozens of small towns that rely on the millions of dollars generated in the fall hunting season. Today, a second test proved positive. 
In an interview, Mr. Owens said state officials always regarded the Rocky Mountains as "a natural barrier" to keep diseased wildlife within the eastern half of the state. That theory, he said, no longer works, but no one knows how the deer or the disease moved 100 miles west.
Further, he said, the discovery of diseased deer threatens an area of the state where hunting is common. Small towns, like Craig, depend on hunters to keep hotels, restaurants and ammunition shops open. 
"All states in the Rocky Mountains depend upon tourism," Mr. Owens said, and wildlife is an important part of Colorado's economy and ecosystem. 
In Nebraska, officials found an alarming number of diseased white-tail deer last month at a private hunting preserve in the northwest corner of the state. Bruce Morrison, assistant administrator for the Nebraska Department of Wildlife, said tests on 69 deer, more than half the 126 tested, showed evidence of the disease. 
Tests continue, Mr. Morrison said, "and they will go on until we're satisfied we've got this stopped.
"That could take another year or two," he said.
Dr. Creekmore said that wasting disease in wild animals was first recognized by the federal Agriculture Department in 1981, and that since then, thousands of animals had been killed as part of the effort to test for the disease and prevent its spread.
In large measure, affected animals, living in the wild or inside preserves for hunting or farming, were known only in certain areas, and their percentages have remained relatively small. In Colorado and Wyoming, for example, less than 5 percent of wild deer and less than 1 percent of wild elk have been found to have the disease.
So far, the new discoveries have not only added substantial numbers to the overall total of affected animals but also raised concerns that state officials have not tracked the disease as closely as they might have thought.
The potential for problems is rising, especially in Wisconsin, where Ms. Shapiro-Hurley said deer and elk populations are denser than in Colorado and Wyoming. 
"It's very alarming," she said. "But the results of our sampling may give us a better sense of whether we should be worrying about the entire southwest of Wisconsin or something bigger."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMALS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); SPORT HUNTING (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (77%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (71%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) ANIMALS; CHRONIC WASTING DISEASE; HUNTING AND TRAPPING 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%)

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%) MIDWESTERN STATES (US); WISCONSIN; COLORADO; NEBRASKA

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



31 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Andersen Chose Indictment Over an Admission of Guilt
Justice Department officials were willing to consider deferring the prosecution of Arthur Andersen, letting it avoid indictment, if the firm publicly acknowledged that it had illegally destroyed documents in the Enron inquiry and agreed to restrictions similar to probation, according to people involved in the case.
 But discussions of such an idea, raised in talks between the government and Andersen several weeks ago, never got off the ground because Andersen believed that such an admission would have been just as devastating as an indictment or guilty plea and also that the firm had not broken any laws. Page A1. 

BellSouth in Brazilian Debt Dispute
BellSouth and Joseph Safra, one of Brazil's wealthiest bankers, are engaged in a dispute that may result in one of that country's largest and messiest corporate debt renegotiations. The dispute already touched off a default last week on a $375 million debt payment by BCP, a large Brazilian wireless communications company. BellSouth's stock dropped to a two-and-a-half-year low. C2.

Ouster of Panel Chief Is Sought
After a year of urging from energy industry lobbyists, the Bush administration is seeking the ouster of Dr. Robert T. Watson, chief scientist of the World Bank, who for nearly six years has directed an international panel of hundreds of experts assessing global warming, several government officials have said. A10.

Metromedia Fiber Near Bankruptcy
Metromedia Fiber Network, a provider of optical fiber communications networks, replaced its top executives and said that it had violated several loan agreements, moving to the brink of bankruptcy. C4.

Bush's Antidrug Ads Strike a Nerve
The Bush administration's antidrug advertising campaign seeks to strike a chord with young people by linking drug use to supporting terrorism. But it has struck a nerve with critics who contend the message is inappropriate and goes too far. Advertising. C7.

Late Technology Rally Lifts Nasdaq
A late rally in technology shares helped lift the Nasdaq composite index, which rose 17.27 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,862.62. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 41.24 points, or 0.4 percent, at 10,362.70, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.85 point, or 0.07 percent, to 1,146.54. C12.

In a stock-market remake of "Night of the Living Dead," shares of long-gone savings banks have sprung to life as investors speculate that the federal government will have to pay dearly for mishandling the savings and loan crisis of the 1980's. Market Place. C12.

Construction Spending Rises 1.1%
The Commerce Department reported that construction spending rose 1.1 percent in February, to $879.4 billion at an annual rate, its fastest pace in a year. A separate report, a survey of purchasing managers, showed that manufacturing expanded in March as new orders flooded in at the fastest pace in more than 14 years. C4.

Hyundai to Build Plant in Alabama
Hyundai Motor selected Alabama over Kentucky for its first United States plant. The $1 billion factory is expected to employ about 2,000 workers and make 300,000 cars a year, beginning in 2005. C2.

Expanded Business Travel Coverage
The Times today introduces expanded weekly coverage of business travel, its rewards and its frustrations. The pages make their debut with "On the Ground," by R. W. Apple Jr., who unpacks and unwinds in Washington. C8-C10.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,362.70 down 41.24Nasdaq composite -- 1,862.62 up 17.2710-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.42% up 0.03The euro -- $0.8805 up 0.0084The dollar -- 133.45 yen up 0.82 Graph: "TODAY" shows factory orders from August 2001.Februrary figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.0% Graph tracks share prices of BellSouth for the week. Graph shows construction spending figures since Sept. 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (88%); FIBER OPTICS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (87%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BANK FAILURES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%); TERRORISM (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



32 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Oil Concerns In Russia Branch Out 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE and PETER S. GREEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 1 

 BODY:
Russian oil companies, overflowing with cash and crude, have begun snapping up "downstream" assets like pipelines and refineries outside Russia, mainly in the former Soviet bloc countries of Eastern Europe. 
 Russia overtook Saudi Arabia in the month of February as the world's largest producer, and its steadily rising output is far beyond the amount domestic demand can absorb. The country's oil companies are moving to secure market outlets and captive customers for their crude. 
 Eastern Europe has been an early choice: those countries are close, familiar and already large consumers of Russian energy. They are also the places Russian oil and oil shipped through Russia from Central Asia must traverse to reach the energy-consuming economies of the West. 
Russia's two largest producers, Yukos Oil and Lukoil, have been the most active buyers. Yukos bought a part-interest in a Slovakian pipeline in January and has expressed interest in refineries in Slovakia and Poland. Lukoil owns oil refineries in Bulgaria and Romania and is expanding its marketing in the region. 
"Russian oil companies are putting down roots," said Marina Dracheva, bureau chief in Moscow for the Energy Intelligence Group, a trade publisher based in London and New York. "This country is choking on the crude it produces. This is a safe and easy way to market their crude."
Besides assuring stable markets for exports, the companies see downstream assets as a hedge against the political and economic risks in Russia. The investments have paid fairly low returns so far, but the income has been steadier than in Russia, where for years the government intervened heavily in the industry and many domestic customers were paralyzed by insolvency. 
"The strategy is to become involved in the downstream in Europe because they are our customers," said Ray Leonard, vice president for exploration and new ventures at Yukos. "We produce more oil than we can sell. Getting a market is a big focus."
But with memories of Soviet domination still fresh, Russian companies are treading softly. For example, Yukos recently reached an agreement to pump oil at one of its Siberian fields in partnership with Mol, the Hungarian oil company. The project will help Yukos expand sales in Central Europe, but perhaps just as important, it will improve the Russian company's image in a country that remembers Soviet tanks crushing a pro-democracy uprising in 1956.
Three pipeline projects will give Russian companies more say over oil and gas flows in the region. Yukos's purchase of 49 percent of Transpetrol, Slovakia's monopoly pipeline operator, gave it control over a transit route to Europe. 
Russian companies are working with a Croatian oil pipeline, which once carried oil from Adriatic ports to points east, to reverse its flow and carry Russian oil to the Mediterranean. And in March, Gazprom, the Russian gas monopoly, teamed up with several European companies to buy a 49 percent stake in Slovakia's gas pipeline.
"Russian oil companies want to control the market," said Emmanuel Bergasse, administrator for Central and Eastern Europe at the Paris-based International Energy Agency. "By controlling the market they mean control over the pipelines."
The Russians have not met a warm welcome everywhere. The Polish government has balked at selling its large oil refinery at Gdansk, on the Baltic Sea, to Russian bidders. When Polish authorities discovered two years ago that Gazprom was quietly laying a fiber optic cable across Poland along with a gas pipeline it was installing, they felt they had been duped, and have since redoubled their suspicions about big Russian companies and their intentions. Similar suspicions are sometimes heard in other countries. 
"Politically, Russian investors are not really welcome now," said Tamas Pletser, an analyst at Erste Bank in Hungary. "This may change, but we need a few years for that."
The pragmatic politics of Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, are helping reduce obstacles abroad. Since he took office, Russia's foreign policy has emphasized economic ties, not political muscle. On a recent visit to Vietnam, he announced that Russia would abandon a naval base there and help build Vietnam's first oil refinery. Gazprom won rights to explore for gas off Vietnam's shores.
While Yukos and Lukoil have mainly been buyers of assets, Tyumen Oil, Russia's fourth-largest producer, said it had been pursuing partnerships and joint ventures in Europe instead, an approach it says is cheaper and more efficient. 
"Our cost of capital is two or three points higher than for a Western company," said Simon Kukes, president of Tyumen, questioning his rivals' strategy. "Why would you do this? To market your product? But do you really know how to market in Central Europe? All we have to offer is our crude, and crude is a commodity." Tyumen would rather leave marketing to local partners, he said.
Though the new assets give Russian companies more economic muscle in Eastern Europe, they do not directly increase Russia's physical capacity to export oil or reduce Moscow's political control of export flows. All crude leaving Russia must still pass through a central state-owned pipeline system, and the government assigns oil companies quotas for access to it.
"On a world supply basis, it doesn't change a whole bunch," said Klaus Rehaag, editor of the Oil Market Report, published by the International Energy Agency. "Crude has already been going to those refineries. But if you are a company with expanding production that needs to find a market, your concern is which crude is going to those refineries."
Russian companies are not yet able to compete head-on with the multinational oil giants. With their high borrowing costs and short track records, the Russian companies have yet to begin establishing solid bases far from home. 
"No matter how many flattering words we say about Russian oil companies, they are not very competitive internationally," said Ms. Dracheva of the Energy Intelligence Group. "If they want foreign expansion, they use geographic proximity, or go to nations like Iraq where they face less competition."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Russian oil company Yukos has purchased 49 percent of Transpetrol, Slovakia's monopoly oil pipeline operator, giving it control over a crucial oil transportation route to Europe. (Transpetrol) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); PUBLISHING (51%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; REFINERIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (84%); OAO GAZPROM (60%); OAO LUKOIL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: YUKOS (RUSSIAN CO); LUKOIL; TRANSPETROL 

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (60%); GAZP (RTS) (60%); LKOH (RTS) (56%); LKOD (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (60%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA; GREEN, PETER S 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); SLOVAKIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); CROATIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); ASIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); BULGARIA (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) RUSSIA; EUROPE; EAST EUROPE; SAUDI ARABIA; SLOVAKIA

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



33 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: BellSouth in Big Brazilian Debt Dispute 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO with JENNIFER L. RICH 

 BODY:
BellSouth and Joseph Safra, one of Brazil's wealthiest bankers, are engaged in a dispute that may result in a big and messy corporate debt renegotiation.
 The dispute touched off a default last week on a $375 million debt payment by BCP S.A., a large Brazilian wireless communications company. BellSouth and a unit of Mr. Safra's financial group, which jointly control BCP, have sharply differed over how to honor BCP's obligations to foreign creditors. 
 Representatives for Mr. Safra, the brother of the late financier Edmond J. Safra, head of the Republic National Bank of New York, complicated the dispute last night by offering to inject $325 million in cash into BCP immediately and urging BellSouth to do the same. The offer was essentially met with silence from BellSouth, with a spokesman saying the company needed time to analyze the proposal. 
The decision to miss the payment last week was preceded by a series of tense negotiations between BellSouth executives and Mr. Safra's representatives in Sao Paulo. ABN Amro and Citigroup are part of a group of 20 big banks that risk losses from their exposure to BCP's debt.
The default is the latest setback for BellSouth in Latin America. The company, based in Atlanta, was among the most aggressive telecommunications investors in the region in the 1990's but has had difficulties because of Argentina's financial and economic crisis and from currency fluctuations in Brazil.
BellSouth's stock fell 89 cents yesterday, to $35.97, its lowest in two and a half years. 
Jeff Battcher, the BellSouth spokesman, declined to comment directly on the dispute. "We're continuing to exchange information with the Safra Group," he said. 
Mr. Safra, the 62-year-old leader of a financial empire that includes banks in Brazil, the United States, Switzerland and Luxembourg, opposed last week's default decision as well as suggestions from BellSouth to pursue a debt restructuring, according to a letter he sent to F. Duane Ackerman, BellSouth's chief executive.
"The best solution to prevent a default is for each of the two principal shareholders to make an advance to BCP of half of the $375 million that is due on Thursday," Mr. Safra wrote in the letter. 
"It is of extraordinary importance that the creditors be informed of our position attempting to avoid the default," he said.
BellSouth seems to have been unfazed by Mr. Safra's concerns, which were made public over the weekend by Elio Gaspari, a Brazilian newspaper columnist.
Executives from BellSouth met with Mr. Safra's representatives last Monday in Sao Paulo and insisted on trying to restructure BCP's $1.6 billion of foreign debt, people close to the company said. These people said BellSouth had insisted for some time that BCP renegotiate its debt instead of meeting immediate payments.
"BellSouth will not provide further funding or credit support to BCP until BCP's debt can be restructured," Mr. Ackerman said in a letter last Tuesday to one of Mr. Safra's deputies, Marcelo Curti. 
The dispute has been further complicated because the Safra Group is thought to hold a large part of BCP's debt, estimated at more than $190 million, according to people close to the companies. Both BellSouth and Safra declined to comment on how these holdings influenced their differing attitudes on the default.
The future of BCP, which was one of the most ambitious bets by a foreign investor on the potential of the telecommunications industry in Latin America, has been thrown into doubt by the two companies' dispute. They are also partners in Cellcom, an Israeli telecommunications venture, that is not expected to be affected.
BellSouth and Verbier, a Safra investment vehicle, spent $2.6 billion to acquire the license to offer cellular service in the Sao Paulo metropolitan area in 1998, about $1 billion more than the nearest bidder. BCP has yet to turn a profit even after signing up more than 1.7 million customers. Much of its difficulties resulted from Brazilian devaluation in 1999, which made it more expensive to service debt denominated in dollars.
The differences between BCP's big shareholders have prompted speculation that one of them might seek to sell its stake to another investor. Carlos Alberto Vieira, the president of Banco Safra, Joseph Safra's principal financial institution in Brazil, did not rule out this possibility in an interview yesterday.
"After we arrive or don't arrive at an agreement," Mr. Vieira said, "we are going to try another solution. Everything has its time. If they continue with their proposal to provoke a restructuring, we'll see what we have to do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: F. Duane Ackerman, BellSouth's chief executive, has insisted on restructuring the debt of BCP, a Brazilian wireless company BellSouth jointly controls with the Safra Group, before providing further funds. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); WRITERS (60%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FINANCES; CREDIT; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (91%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (90%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (71%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BELLSOUTH CORP; BCP TELECOMUNICACOES SA; ABN AMRO; CITIGROUP INC 

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (91%); HSB (PAR) (91%); HBC (NYSE) (91%); 0005 (HKSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); ABO (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; RICH, JENNIFER L; SAFRA, JOSEPH; ACKERMAN, DUANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%) BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



34 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Qwest May Take Up to $30 Billion Charge 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1 

 BODY:
Qwest Communications International, a provider of local and long-distance telephone services, said today that it might take a charge of $20 billion to $30 billion this year to write down the value of assets.
 The write-down lowers the value of good will, or the difference between the purchase price of an asset and its book value, created when Qwest bought U S West in June 2000. 
The company made the announcement in a filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 Qwest shares today fell 22 cents, to $8. They have fallen 43 percent this year. The company expects to take the charge in the second quarter.
"Since we first announced our merger with U S West, we have a very different economy and lowered industry demand for telecom services, which has resulted in our having to write down good will," Joseph Nacchio, the chief executive, said.
Qwest, which is based in Denver, also revised last year's loss to $4.02 billion, or $2.42 a share, from a previously reported $4.01 billion, or $2.41 a share.
The changes reflect "year-end adjustments we made when we closed our books," Mr. Nacchio said. "We do not believe these adjustments are material."
Separately, Qwest said S.E.C. staff members were recommending that the agency take action against the company for excluding information on costs associated with the U S West purchase.
S.E.C. staff members, after a review of a Qwest statement for 2000, recommended that the commission "allege Qwest should also have included in the earnings release a statement" of earnings that complies with generally accepted accounting principles, Qwest said.
The company will have an opportunity to rebut the charge and said in the filing that it "believes that an action by the S.E.C. would be without merit." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); MERGERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%) FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CENTURYLINK INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) QWEST COMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; US WEST INC 

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



35 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: THE PROTESTS; 
Across the Mideast, an Outpouring of Anger and a Show of Support

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, April 1 

 BODY:
Protests against Israel and the United States intensified across the Middle East today, with the police in Amman and Cairo firing water cannons and repeated bursts of tear gas to prevent demonstrators, mostly students, from surging through the streets. 
 The protests took myriad forms. In Iraq, Saddam Hussein demanded that Arabs take the unlikely step of cutting off oil sales to the West. In Libya, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi led marchers through the streets of the capital, Tripoli, and challenged the Arab nations bordering Israel to open the frontiers to allow volunteer fighters to join the Palestinians. 
 Even in Kuwait, the most uncritical of American allies, the Parliament issued a statement suggesting that Washington be fairer in dealing with the conflict.
"The Arab masses are on the move," said Taher Masri, a former prime minister of Jordan. "It's a terrible situation. The regimes were beginning to stabilize, and the region was moving in the right direction. Now some regimes will suffer."
Not all protests were violent or unruly. Thousands of marchers moved peacefully through the streets of Khartoum, in Sudan, and demonstrators in Lebanon chanted outside the American Embassy near Beirut. Outside of Cairo, protests erupted in various Egyptian cities including Alexandria and Sohag, along the Nile.
The most violent were in Cairo and here in Amman. In Cairo, thousands of students pushed through the gates of Cairo University and headed for the Israeli Embassy a few hundred yards away, shouting for Egypt to expel the ambassador and sever diplomatic ties. 
Riot police firing water cannons and tear gas and wielding truncheons drove the students back after four hours. The police said 9 officers were hit by stones and 16 protesters were taken to hospitals overcome by tear gas. Thirty protesters were arrested, the police said.
In Amman, a phalanx of police formed a barrier across the gates of the University of Jordan to prevent at least 500 protesters from leaving campus, ultimately water cannons drove them back. 
The police here and in Cairo were basically successful in containing the demonstrations. Life elsewhere appeared calm, and one could easily have passed the day without realizing there were violent clashes elsewhere.
In the Palestinian refugee camp in the Jebel Hussein neighborhood, the police skirmished for much of the day with mostly young camp residents. Protesters set fire to trash containers, leaving thick black smoke billowing above the camp.
Protesters seemed especially galvanized by President Bush's remarks on Saturday. Men and women across the spectrum of age and economic status said they were appalled by the picture of Mr. Bush, relaxing on his ranch in a blue jean shirt, suggesting that Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, do more to stop terrorism while they watched Israeli tanks smashing through the West Bank and the corpses left behind by Israeli soldiers. 
"Do those Americans live with us on the same earth?" said Wael Hassan, a law student protesting in Cairo. "Can't this Bush realize what the Israelis have been doing to the Palestinians for the past 50 years? Well, how could he realize the pain of the poor Palestinians who are living in the camps while he is condemning them from his ranch playing with his dogs." 
Many Arabs noted a certain contradiction in American policy, with Mr. Bush occasionally saying he supported a Palestinian state but condemning anyone who wanted to fight for it. 
"He had a limited vocabulary," said Mr. Masri, the retired Jordanian prime minister who concentrates on human rights for the Arab League. "He kept repeating terrorism 10 or 20 times and not mentioning occupation. It was as if the Palestinians are the aggressors."
Watching the melee, Zakaria Idrees, 45, said, "The Arab leaders supported the war against terrorism like dogs, but for our people they don't do anything to protect them from the Israelis. 
"I called my family in Ramallah," Mr. Idrees said, "and I couldn't stop crying and I had to hang up because I couldn't listen any more. They have no food, no medicine and they are scared."
The protests in Jordan reflected the fact that so many residents are Palestinians with relatives across the Jordan River. Watching the scenes from there, they want to participate and protest what they see as Arab inaction.
The unions also organized a protest of several hundred people outside their building, which grew when students fled the campus of the University of Jordan because they said arrests were being made.
Throughout much of the day, protesters could be heard chanting phrases like "Let's attack our neighbor" or "Arab leaders, when are you going to learn from Hezbollah?" The organizers said they had hoped to march through downtown Amman but were denied a permit, a frequent occurrence. 
With Arab leaders weighing whether to call an emergency summit of at least foreign ministers in Cairo, some chants were against area governments. "No to the Arab summit! No!" protesters yelled and "Oh Abdullah, son of the Sauds, we don't want normalization."
Both chants were against the recent summit in Beirut, where Arab leaders approved support of a peace initiative devised by Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, offering Israel relations with all 22 Arab countries if it withdrew to its 1967 borders and aided the creation of a Palestinian state. 
The Jordanian government has been sensitive to protests wrecking the image of Jordan as a stable country at a time when it is trying to attract foreign investment. Recent protests prompted severe censorship, with security officers confiscating the videotapes of reporters, leaving the demonstrations virtually unreported locally. 
"They tell us we live in a democratic country and we have the right to express ourselves, but we don't see anything of this democracy that they are teaching us in school," said Mona Aisha, a 20-year-old science major. "The Jews took our land and the Jordanians took our voices and I feel like I don't know what to do, I just feel helpless."
The one group that was given a permit to gather held a candlelight vigil some 250 yards from the American embassy in Amman. "P.L.O., P.L.O., Israel No," they chanted and "No to the American Embassy, No to the Zionist embassy."
In a sop to public sentiment, various Jordanian officials made statements or leaked word that the government was considering downgrading relations with Israel from the ambassador level to the level of charge d'affaires, the No. 2 post. Jordan has kept its embassy in Tel Aviv at that level since the violence erupted. But here, as in Egypt, officials said they would not break relations with Israel as long as they felt some minimum dialogue would further the Arab cause.
In Iraq, Mr. Hussein urged Arab oil producers to adopt economic measures against Israel and its supporters. Iraq's ruling Baath party called on Arab nations to wield oil as a weapon, apparently by cutting off supplies to the West as was done during the Arab-Israeli war in 1973. 
But a repeat of 1973 was considered unlikely, mostly because the Arab oil producers have come to depend solely on oil revenue to keep their public welfare systems afloat.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The police in Cairo used tear gas yesterday to keep protesters away from the Israeli Embassy. Thousands of students pushed through the gates of Cairo University, shouting for Egypt to expel the Israeli ambassador. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RIOTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (74%); ARRESTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); REFUGEES (70%); ARMED FORCES (50%); TERRORISM (50%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (95%); CAIRO, EGYPT (95%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) ISRAEL (97%); EGYPT (96%); JORDAN (95%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (92%); SUDAN (79%); LEBANON (79%) ISRAEL; LIBYA; IRAQ; KUWAIT; EGYPT; JORDAN; AMMAN (JORDAN); CAIRO (EGYPT)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



36 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Not Under Our Mountain, Nevada Says of Nuclear Dump 

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, March 31 

 BODY:
When it comes to the Bush administration's plan to store the nation's deadly radioactive waste under Yucca Mountain, political leaders here in Nevada do not mince words.
 Oscar Goodman, the Democratic mayor of Las Vegas, which sits 90 miles east of Yucca, has called Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham "a piece of garbage." 
 The Senate Democratic whip, Harry Reid, said the president was "a liar."
Republicans, too, are incensed: Gov. Kenny Guinn said the president had "misled" Nevada, and Senator John Ensign announced that he was "profoundly disappointed" in the president. 
Noting that the General Accounting Office concluded in December that nearly 300 scientific and engineering questions about the Yucca plan remained unanswered, Nevada's top officials accused the president of kowtowing to the pro-Yucca nuclear energy lobby and reneging on a campaign promise not to approve the plan without "sound science."
But the Nevada officials -- of every political stripe -- are not simply sounding off. Governor Guinn plans to veto the administration's recommendation within the next two weeks, before the 90-day deadline permitted for such a veto. This sets the stage for a vote by Congress by summer. 
Senators Reid and Ensign have recruited two former White House chiefs of staff, John D. Podesta, who worked in the Clinton administration, and Kenneth M. Duberstein, who worked in the Reagan administration, to lobby senators to sustain a Guinn veto. (The House of Representatives is expected to override the veto.)
Now the Nevada campaign is going public.
In an effort to counter the nuclear industry's own deep-pocketed Washington lobbyists -- John Sununu, chief of staff for the first President Bush, and Geraldine Ferraro, the onetime vice-presidential candidate, have been enlisted in the pro-Yucca fight -- Nevada is launching a multimillion-dollar advertising and publicity campaign intended to stoke opposition to the plan beyond Nevada's borders. 
On March 27, officials announced that they were trying to raise $10 million to pay for national television commercials that would be broadcast in states where nuclear waste would travel before reaching the burial site, presenting the argument that the Yucca plan is dangerous for every city and town, every highway and byway and every truck stop and railroad yard along the way. Officials are hoping to raise the money from local and county governments as well as the casino industry and other private businesses. 
The state also plans to send trucks with mock nuclear casks into cities around the country, where they will find themselves trapped in traffic jams, demonstrating the potential problems with transporting nuclear material through 43 states. 
Officials are also hoping for a huge publicity boost this week, when the NBC series "The West Wing" features a plot about an accident that occurs while a truck is transporting nuclear waste.
"People -- and I mean the politicians -- think of this as Nevada's problem," Governor Guinn said in comments echoed by his colleagues. "But it's not just Nevada's problem. It's America's problem. God forbid there should be an accident during transport." 
Mr. Abraham, in a recent opinion article in The Washington Post, said that nuclear waste had been safely transported for 30 years, covering 1.6 million miles without incident, and that the science on Yucca, after 20 years of study, was sound. He accused the Nevadans of using scare tactics to sabotage the plan, adding that that it was obviously safer to store nuclear waste 800 feet beneath a barren desert owned by the government than to keep it scattered in 131 sites in 39 states in temporary, above-ground facilities.
But Nevada's leaders say that the Government Accounting Office report makes clear that much needs to be studied before the transporting of nuclear waste can be called safe, especially given the potential for terrorism. They added that it was misleading to say the Yucca plan would mean the end of nuclear waste around the country. Every active nuclear reactor in the country would continue to house highly radioactive waste because spent nuclear fuel rods must be put in on-site cooling pools for at least five years before they can be transported.
"It is so disingenuous of them to say this would mean the end of 131 nuclear waste sites," Senator Reid said, adding that the plan would instead create thousands of mobile waste sites, "accidents waiting to happen," as the waste is transported.
"If we can get this message out, we can convince the Senate to vote with us," Mr. Reid said. 
But he conceded it would not be an easy sell.
While Nevadans have become well versed on the issue, the rest of the country has paid little attention to the proposals, polls show.
While Senators Reid and Ensign are lobbying their colleagues in the Senate for the 51 votes they will need to sustain Mr. Guinn's veto and kill the Yucca project, officials here have also armed themselves with lawsuits to block the project should Congress approve the plan and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission grant it a license.
Governor Guinn filed a lawsuit hours after President Bush approved the plan, contending that the Department of Energy did not let the state review the final environmental impact statement before the recommendation. That suit joins two others Nevada filed last year accusing the Energy Department of ignoring its mandate to find a geologically sound burial ground and the Environmental Protection Agency of either violating federal law or manipulating scientific data to reach pro-Yucca conclusions.
Mayor Goodman now speaks about Yucca Mountain everywhere he goes, telling Nevadans of a Clark County study released in January that estimated a roadway accident involving nuclear material on its way to Yucca Mountain could eliminate 54,000 jobs in the region, force 90,000 residents to move and cost the local economy $1.4 billion. He said he was itching to take his message national.
"One catastrophic accident, God forbid," he said, "would mean a nuclear holocaust." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said that transporting nuclear waste to his state was "accidents waiting to happen." (John Gurzinski for The New York Times) Map of Nevada shows the location of Yucca Mountain: A Bush plan would bury nuclear waste under Yucca Mountain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); VETO (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); COUNTIES (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CASINOS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); CEMETERIES (60%) NUCLEAR WASTES; ADVERTISING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; RADIATION; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN ENSIGN (79%); JOHN SUNUNU (79%); JOHN PODESTA (79%); HARRY REID (78%) NIEVES, EVELYN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) YUCCA MOUNTAIN (NEV); NEVADA

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



37 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: South Dakota Senate Campaign: Bush Versus Daschle (by Proxy) 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS, S.D., March 29 

 BODY:
The miles of snow-dusted farms and ranches of the Great Plains seem an unlikely epicenter for the struggle to control the Senate.
 Stranger still is that majority power in Washington may well end up turning on such intense local concerns as whether meatpackers can own livestock and whether South Dakota values political pork. 
 But that is what happens when the Senate face-off this year between the Democratic incumbent, Tim Johnson, and his Republican challenger, Representative John Thune, could turn out to be the most pivotal race in the 2002 elections.
"This is regarded rightly or not as possibly the most contested Senate campaign in America," Mr. Johnson, 55, acknowledged this week to an audience of mostly elderly farmers in tiny Milbank. "It may well be." 
This race could determine whether the Democrats keep their tenuous hold on Senate power, whether the home state Senator Tom Daschle remains majority leader and whether President Bush's agenda advances. No public polling has been done recently in the race, and people in both campaigns say it will be close.
Many voters here are uncomfortable with the notion that so much is riding on the contest. They say wistfully that they genuinely like both candidates and wish they did not have to choose between them.
"People would rather have it be a local race, but it just isn't," said Michael Donnelly, 35, a Thune supporter and sales manager who attended a packed Good Friday prayer breakfast just after dawn.
Mr. Thune, 41, was nearby at the door energetically calling out greetings to passers-by.
In its way, the South Dakota face-off feels like a tale of two races.
The one that is being played out here beside grain silos, at prayer breakfasts and on Indian reservations often revolves around water projects and federal grants and which candidate did more for South Dakota in drafting farm legislation. One hot question is who is fighting harder to prevent meatpackers from owning livestock, a concern of smaller ranchers and farmers who say that meatpackers who keep their own herds can control prices.
The other race is a proxy battle between Mr. Daschle and President Bush, which has the national parties and their ideological allies pouring money, advertising and operatives into the state.
Mr. Bush, who won South Dakota by 22 points in 2000, helped persuade Mr. Thune to run for the Senate instead of for governor. Mr. Johnson is Mr. Daschle's protege, and if he loses, the race could strip Mr. Daschle of the Democrats' one-seat Senate majority, depending on the outcome of other contests.
So Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, has been here raising money for Mr. Thune, and several administration officials, including Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, have come to South Dakota. Mr. Bush is expected later this month. Former operatives from the Al Gore campaign have signed up to help Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Daschle sometimes campaigns at his side.
The national party committees have already run an exchange of political commercials, as if it were October. By some predictions, $14 million could be spent in the race, making it perhaps the most expensive in the nation per capita, because South Dakota has about 750,000 residents.
"This is a race that's going to be a magnet for money across the country," said Larry Makinson, who monitors campaign spending for the Center for Responsive Politics.
Out-of-state interests have already been all over South Dakota. For months conservative groups have run advertisements, some to pressure Mr. Johnson on issues, most attacking Mr. Daschle.
"Our ads are based at helping Bush pass his agenda by throwing Tom Daschle off balance," said Stephen Moore, whose Club for Growth has run advertisements criticizing Mr. Daschle for blocking the president's economic program and has a new set in the works.
"But they do have a little bit of a ricochet effect," Mr. Moore added, "because Tom Daschle and Tim Johnson are joined at the hip. So any time you damage Daschle politically, you have this collateral damage done to Tim Johnson."
Mr. Daschle is appearing as a draw at Mr. Johnson's fund-raisers.
One lobbyist and donor who would not allow his name to be used said, "I think everybody recognizes that this is Tom Daschle's junior senator."
At the end of 2001, the Center for Responsive Politics reported, 77 percent of individuals' contributions to Mr. Johnson's campaign larger than $200, totaling $1.1 million, were from out-of-state donors. Mr. Johnson's aides say he raises many smaller donations in South Dakota.
In contrast, 22 percent of Mr. Thune's contributions of more than $200 from individuals, totaling $132,700, came from out of state. He did not officially enter the race until October, however, and he was recently raising money in California. Both men also had contributions from political action committees.
Yet for all the out-of-state interest, this race has a very local feel. True, Mr. Thune is striking national Republican themes, putting a heavy emphasis on cutting taxes and a strong defense, but Mr. Johnson, in perhaps a textbook example of how Democrats hope to survive in conservative states, is trying to turn the race into a referendum on who can deliver the most for South Dakota. Thanks to Mr. Daschle, he snagged a coveted seat last year on the powerful Appropriations Committee.
So at stop after stop Mr. Johnson highlights grants that he says he brought home, like nearly $1 million to help Milbank keep its hospital.
"It has been a long, long time since South Dakota's had a member of the Appropriations Committee," he said before touring a university laboratory. "I've had that honor only the past year. But when you look at what we've been able to accomplish in one year, it's self-serving to say, but I think that maybe we want to try to sustain that for a while further."
Occasionally, he openly says that his fate could also affect Mr. Daschle, who is immensely popular.
As Mr. Johnson said in Milbank, his race "could very well determine whether the majority leader is from South Dakota or Mississippi," a reference to the home state of Senator Trent Lott, who led the Senate before Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont defected from the Republicans and gave the Democrats control.
Mr. Johnson said in an interview that Mr. Daschle was bound to be a subtext in the contest. 
"People are proud that the majority leader comes from South Dakota," he said. "They are very much aware of his clout as well." 
Mr. Thune, who as South Dakota's lone statewide member of Congress has won overwhelmingly in recent years, is working to portray the Democratic incumbent as out of step with the values of the voters, more registered as Republican than as Democrats. "I think I reflect them better," he says. 
His campaign commercials emphasize cutting taxes and his support for a strong military, including a missile defense system and the B-2 bomber. They say Mr. Thune represents "South Dakota values," suggesting that Mr. Johnson does not.
At times Mr. Thune tries to rise above the debate over who has secured more for South Dakota. When Mr. Johnson held a news conference to say that the Senate version of the farm bill was more beneficial to South Dakota than the House one, Mr. Thune told reporters that the final bill was still being negotiated and that it was "not a time for playing politics."
But in his own advertisements, he has joined the fray, taking credit for helping secure money for a water pipeline and for highways, and for helping transform an abandoned gold mine into a physics laboratory.
Mr. Thune steps gingerly around the issue of Mr. Daschle, saying in an interview, "I think most people understand that whether they are in the majority or minority, Tom Daschle is going to be the leader of the Democrats."
He argued that South Dakota would therefore be better off with Mr. Daschle and a Republican senator with access to President Bush.
Many voters are torn.
"I don't relish going to the voting booth," said Dennis Davis, who as executive director of South Dakota Rural Water has worked with both lawmakers. "I don't want to see either one of them gone."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Tom Daschle, left, campaigned for Senator Tim Johnson in Aberdeen, S.D., last month. Mr. Johnson's Republican opponent, Representative John Thune, was at a Good Friday prayer breakfast in Sioux Falls. The Senate race in South Dakota is viewed as a proxy battle betweem Mr. Daschle and President Bush as well as a contest on issues of interest in the state. (Greg Latza/PeopleScapes for The New York Times); (Steven R. Wolf/Aberdeen American News, via Associated Press)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); RELIGION (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%) ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM DASCHLE (91%); TIM JOHNSON (90%); JOHN THUNE (89%); AL GORE (58%); KARL ROVE (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); JOHNSON, TIM (SEN); THUNE, JOHN (REPR); MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (73%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) SOUTH DAKOTA

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002 



38 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: How to Grow a Giant Tuna 

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: ENSENADA, Mexico 

 BODY:
TOOLING his black BMW south along Interstate 5, Philippe Charat banters with his passengers and chats on his cellphone in English, Spanish and French. No matter what the language, the subject remains the same: fish.
 We're headed from San Diego to this booming city of 400,000 in Baja California, 75 miles from the international border, and from there by launch out into the ocean, around a headland called Punta Banda and into Puerto Escondido Bay. There, Mr. Charat runs an unusual aquaculture business -- an underwater feedlot for the creatures that he calls "the kings of the sea": Thunnus thynnus orientalis, or Pacific bluefin tuna. 
 This is the fish prized above all others by connoisseurs of sushi and sashimi, the one whose belly meat, called toro, commands the highest prices on Japanese restaurant menus (with the exception of the potentially poisonous fugu, or blowfish, which is not nearly as widely sold). At its best, when the fat content is high, when the fish has been meticulously handled, the flesh is fabulously tender and buttery, ranging in color from a soft pink to a deep, winy red. Obviously too luscious to cook. Begging to be eaten raw. 
Unlike salmon, tuna has not yet been successfully farmed -- that is, raised in captivity from egg to maturity -- though Mr. Charat predicts it will happen one day. For now, all bluefin must be caught in the wild, not only the Pacific species but also its giant, biologically similar Atlantic cousin, which is perhaps slightly less desirable from a gastronomic viewpoint.
What Mr. Charat has done here, building on the experience of an operation that he studied in Australia, is to ensure that all the bluefin he catches, not just a few, become prime specimens. His boats net the fish, tons at a time, as they cruise along the coast, 20 to 30 miles offshore.
Then, the tuna are towed at less than two miles an hour, still in the water in specially designed enclosures, to Puerto Escondido Bay. There they live the life of Riley, splashing happily about in 16 huge circular pens, gaining weight and building their fat content on a sardine diet -- all the fish they can eat, three times every day, six days a week, for four to eight months.
"You take a run-of-the-mill fish, a so-so fish, and turn it into a superstar," Mr. Charat said.
The tuna are caught between June and August, as they swim between Magdalena Bay, near the southern tip of Baja California, and Monterey Bay, south of San Francisco. They are sold between October and March, by which time they weigh up to 190 pounds.
When Mr. Charat's company, Maricultura del Norte, gets an order, an appropriate number of fattened tuna are harvested. That gives him an edge over conventional suppliers: they have to sell as soon as their boats dock, whether the demand is high or not. He sells, as he said, "when I want to."
ONE day in January, my wife, Betsey, and I visited the feedlot with Mr. Charat and our mutual friend, Sam Popkin, a tuna-crazed professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego. It was harvest day, with the sky blue and the sun hot at midmorning. Maricultura's agent at Tokyo's fish market, Tsukiji, had ordered 100 large and 300 small bluefin.
At Christmastime, when the demand peaks, Maricultura sometimes harvests as many as 900 tuna in a single day, working from sunrise to sunset.
Tsukiji pays the highest prices in the world, but its buyers insist on quality -- tuna without bruises or blemishes, with vividly colored flesh, with maximum oil and fat content. The current price for a gutted bluefin, with head and tail on, runs about $9.50 a pound for small fish, $12.75 a pound for medium fish and even more for larger fish. A 410-pound tuna was sold at Tsukiji for a record $160,000 last year.
The meat sells at retail for as much as $45 a pound, despite the lasting slump in the Japanese economy.
Mr. Charat takes extraordinary steps to meet Tsukiji standards -- some during the harvest, others before it starts. The fish are towed here very slowly to minimize enzyme stress, which can adversely affect flavor. Those to be harvested at a particular time are isolated from those which are not, lest they thrash about and damage one another. The sardines they are fed, caught locally by Maricultura's own trawler, the Noble Provider, are so good that Mr. Charat distributes a few from time to time to friends in the food business, who consider them vastly superior to those on sale in fish markets.
To avoid damage to their livers from overeating, the tuna are fed only six days a week; it would never do to have a bay full of fish with crises de foie. And on those six days, the sardines are broadcast across the surface of the water to force the big fish to compete aggressively for food. Some farmed salmon are criticized because, having no need to work for nourishment, they develop a flabby texture.
"It takes a tough man to make a tender tuna," Professor Popkin observed as each of the various procedures and safeguards was explained to us.
The harvest was a gaudy, melodramatic spectacle in primary colors, like a picture fashioned with a child's poster paints. The workmen wore green or yellow rubberized trousers with orange bibs; a blue tarpaulin on the work barge was stained a vivid red by streams of fish blood as the day wore on. Yet everything was done so efficiently and so quickly, with so little apparent suffering by the fish, that it scarcely seemed as primal as it clearly was.
Divers in black wet suits and yellow flippers started by raising a barrier inside one of the pens, separating a dozen or so tuna from the rest. Next they grabbed the fish, one by one, one hand on the tail and the other in the gills, and hoisted them onto the barge, where another crew of workers held them in place. Instantly that team spiked each tuna in the head, killing it, cut a main artery behind the gills to bleed it, and ran a fine steel wire down the fish's spinal column, paralyzing it immediately.
Another team, astonishingly deft like the first, then took over, cutting out the gills and guts in one swift motion and tossing the bluefin into a 32-degree saline water solution. 
The whole process took only about 50 seconds -- a short enough period, Mr. Charat told us, to preserve the tuna's quality in two ways: by avoiding the formation of excessive lactic acid and by preventing the fish's blood temperature from rising after it has left the sea.
When the workers took a break, they presented their visitors with a late breakfast, a pailful of sea urchins fresh out of the ocean. A whack with the back of a knife and the rich, creamy roes were laid bare. The taste of the first startled us. It was overwhelmingly salty, but the rest, rinsed in fresh water, were blissfully sweet and custard-like, with no hint of the metallic flavor that mars the elderly uni served at second-rate sushi bars.
They sure beat doughnuts.
A TWISTING trail brought Mr. Charat, who is 62, to Ensenada. The son of a French mother and a Russian father, he left Paris with his family as an infant. They lived in Cuba and in Texas, but by 1957 the elder Charat was in the fishing business in Mexico. The son showed an entrepreneurial flair at Harvard, helping two friends start the Harvard Student Agencies, which have gone from strength to strength, publishing, for example, the widely read "Let's Go" guides. He went on to the Harvard Business School.
In 1973, Mr. Charat entered the shrimp fishing business in the Gulf of Mexico. But in 1981 his company was nationalized. In 1983, he bought three tuna purse seiners, selling his catch in Mexico and in Samoa.
Thirteen years later, he started his present business, following a visit, as part of a Mexican delegation, to a tuna-fattening operation at Port Lincoln in South Australia, west of Adelaide. The Australians utilized frozen sardines; he could do a lot better, Mr. Charat reasoned, with the fresh sardines in ample supply in this corner of the world.
And so he has. A Mexican citizen, he holds a 50-year concession from the Mexican government. Maricultura fattened 30 tons of tuna the first year, 60 the second, 100 the third, 300 the fourth. Another big increase is expected this year. Before too long Mr. Charat hopes to begin fattening yellowfin tuna and yellowtail, a kind of amberjack that the Japanese call hamachi, at a new installation in Magdalena Bay, which is 600 miles south of here.
He already has one competitor in this region, and five more have been authorized by the government. The business is well established in Australia. And according to Chris Purcell of Ocean View Fisheries, a fish wholesaler in Halifax, Nova Scotia, about a dozen fishermen in nearby St. Margaret's Bay fatten Atlantic bluefin on a small scale, maybe 40 to 50 fish each.
The world's, and especially Japan's, appetite for tuna seems insatiable. The question is whether stocks of bluefin can withstand the pressure. Already, the giant Atlantic bluefin, which can reach up to 1,500 pounds, is listed as endangered by the Monterey Aquarium, which monitors such matters. The southern Pacific bluefin, which is caught off Australia, has also been overfished, but so far the northern Pacific bluefin, caught here, appears to be in better shape. 
About 95 percent of Maricultura's output goes to Japan, with about half of that ending up at Tsukiji, where it is labeled "LA" after the airport from which it is shipped -- a mark that guarantees it a premium price. The other 5 percent is sold in San Diego and Los Angeles, mostly to top restaurants.
Chilly from their cold-water bath, the fish are cleaned, weighed, tagged and measured before being placed with cold gel packs in plastic-lined boxes to keep them fresh. If they are harvested on Thursday, for example, they are packed on Friday morning and trucked to Los Angeles International Airport on Friday afternoon. They arrive in Tokyo on Sunday, local time, and go on sale at 5 a.m. Monday. Most of them will be consumed by Wednesday at the latest.
That may sound like a very long time. But in fact it is almost ideal; like a number of other fish, such as Dover sole, bluefin only reaches peak flavor and texture four to six days after it has emerged from the water.
Mr. Charat demonstrated that the night before we visited Ensenada. At George's at the Cove, one of San Diego's leading restaurants, the chef, Trey Foshee, prepared a loin of two-day-old Maricultura tuna in several ways. A grilled rib steak was superb, but a slice of the same fish, served raw, was not quite as rich-tasting, and not at all as tender, as we had expected.
"Wait two or three days," Mr. Charat said. "It's not ready."
Professor Popkin took a piece of the bluefin loin home, kept it in his refrigerator for 48 hours and then served it as sashimi to his family. It was perfect, he reported, the melt-in-the-mouth stuff you dream about.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CORRALLED -- Bluefin tuna are kept in enclosures in Puerto Escondido Bay, Mexico. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)(pg. F1); ONE BY ONE -- Divers choose bluefin tuna for harvesting from Maricultura del Norte's feeding enclosures off the Pacific coast of Mexico. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (90%); FISHES (90%); AQUACULTURE (89%); WILDLIFE (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TUNA; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; AQUACULTURE 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CHARAT, PHILIPPE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (73%) ENSENADA (MEXICO); MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



39 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Jet Builder Announces Bankruptcy In Germany 

BYLINE:  By PETRA KAPPL 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 2 

 BODY:
Fairchild Dornier, the No. 3 builder of regional and business jets and the heir to two venerable aviation names, filed for bankruptcy protection from creditors today, saying it had run out of cash. 
 The company, owned by the German insurer Allianz Capital Part ners and the American investment firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice, has been trying for months to line up a strategic partner to help it bring to market a 70-seat jet it has been developing since 1998. But only in the last few weeks has the company said publicly that it was in talks with possible partners to shore up its finances. The talks failed to yield a deal in time to forestall the bankrupt cy filing, which was forced on the company by solvency requirements in German law. 
 If Fairchild collapses, it will leave the regional jet business to just two manufacturers, Bombardier of Canada and Embraer of Brazil. The fourth major entrant, BAE Systems of Britain, said last fall that it would exit the market. German newspapers reported that Boeing had been among those talking to Fairchild; Boeing told Bloomberg News that it would not comment.
Hours after Fairchild's filing was officially received in a district court in Weilheim, the German economics ministry said it would help keep Fairchild in operation to avoid job losses. It offered no specifics.
The company's main operations, with 3,600 workers, are based at Oberpfaffenhofen, Bavaria, near Munich, reflecting its descent from Dornier Luftfahrt, a German airplane builder bought by Fairchild in 1996. The company has 700 workers in the United States, mainly in San Antonio. It has not yet decided whether to file for Chapter 11 protection in the United States, the company's managing director, Thomas Brandt, said at a news conference today.
Fairchild Dornier, whose sales have lagged far behind the two industry leaders, ran into trouble by underestimating the cost of developing the new jet, the 728JET, analysts said. The company said it had 125 firm orders for the new jet and would press on with development despite the court filing. The prototype is scheduled to make its first flight in August. Fairchild's only current production model is the 32-seat 328JET.
Dornier and Republic Aviation, an American predecessor of Fairchild, built warplanes for opposing sides in World War II, planes that met in combat over Europe.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Brandt, left, managing director of Fairchild Dornier, and Eberhard Braun, an insolvency administrator, announced yesterday that the company was unable to line up new strategic partners. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (88%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIRLINES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); SOLVENCY RATIO (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); WORLD WAR II (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR 

COMPANY: DORNIER GMBH (92%); ALLIANZ SE (84%); EMBRAER SA (83%); CLAYTON DUBILIER & RICE INC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (56%); BOMBARDIER INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FAIRCHILD DORNIER; ALLIANZ CAPITAL PARTNERS; CLAYTON DUBILIER & RICE INC 

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (84%); ALV (BIT) (84%); ERJ (NYSE) (83%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (83%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); BA (LSE) (56%); BBD.A (TSX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: KAPPL, PETRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



40 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Where Square Feet Dance a Competitive Tune

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The drive for new and expanded convention centers stretches from New York to San Diego. In the last two years, High Point, N.C., built a Showplace hall with 450,000 square feet of exhibition space, while Grand Forks, N.D., erected the Alerus Center, with 123,000 square feet. Anaheim, Calif.; Charleston, W.Va.; Columbus, Ohio; San Antonio; Seattle; Portland, Ore.; and eight other cities expanded their halls by a combined total of 4.5 million square feet. That round of the intercity convention center building competition brought the grand total to about 59.7 million square feet at 347 sites, Tradeshow Week says. 
 Much more is on the way. Boston is building an $800 million hall on a prime piece of land in South Boston as the centerpiece of an urban redevelopment project. Not to be outdone, Washington is building a center with 725,000 square feet of exhibition space, 209,000 more than Boston. The World Expo Center in Kissimmee, Fla., will have 2 million square feet when completed in 2004. Three dozen other cities are planning convention centers or awaiting financing. That includes Amarillo and Houston, Tex.; Fort Myers and Lakeland, Fla.; New Orleans; Philadelphia; San Jose, Calif.; Des Moines; and Virginia Beach. 
 In New York, the hotel industry has long sought an expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which has 814,400 square feet. The Javits captures 6 to 8 percent of the market for the 200 largest shows in the industry, compared with 22.4 percent for Las Vegas and 16 percent for Chicago. After years of squabbling between the city and the state, both Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki now agree on the importance of expanding the Javits. The only problem is where the money will come from, given the state's and the city's fiscal constraints. CHARLES V. BAGLI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); LODGING (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); HOTELS & MOTELS (51%) CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES 

ORGANIZATION: JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) BAGLI, CHAARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (74%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



41 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Fall on Concerns About Technology and Mideast

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Technology stocks dragged Wall Street lower yesterday after Goldman, Sachs voiced caution on big technology names like Microsoft. Worry about soaring oil prices amid escalating Middle East violence added to the pressure.
 "It continues to show the nervousness in the market because we are still susceptible to negative news; bull markets are not," said Michael Farr, president of Farr, Miller & Washington, which manages about $200 million. "The Middle East continues to be a dark cloud over the market. The fear is of a widespread conflict." 
 The Nasdaq composite index declined 58.22 points, or 3.1 percent, to 1,804.40. It was the lowest close since March 1.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 48.99 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,313.71. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 9.78 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,136.76.
Software and semiconductor issues lost ground after Goldman, Sachs cut Microsoft and dropped sales forecasts for two other technology behemoths, I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems, sending their stocks sharply lower.
Goldman reduced its fiscal 2003 earnings estimate for Microsoft, saying the economic recovery is taking longer to gain traction in the technology industry. Shares of Microsoft slumped $3.08, or 5.1 percent, to $57.30.
I.B.M., a Dow stock, fell $1.85, to $101.01. Sun lost 58 cents, or 6.1 percent, to $8.94.
Crude prices rose on both sides of the Atlantic. Shares of oil companies, however, rallied along with oil prices. If the higher prices are sustained, the trend will translate into higher earnings for these companies.
Volume was light, with about 1.19 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, about 1.7 billion shares were traded.
PeopleSoft, the business automation software maker, plunged $12.21, or 32.7 percent, to $25.16, after saying it expects first-quarter earnings to miss previous forecasts as companies sharply cut technology spending.
"The PeopleSoft announcement, the situation in the Middle East and Goldman, Sachs trimming estimates on a bunch of techs" are the theme of the day, said Peter Boockvar, equity strategist for Miller Tabak & Company.
Broadvision Inc. declined 25 cents, or 14.5 percent, to $1.47, on the Nasdaq after the company, a Web software maker, said it had restated and revised quarterly and annual numbers. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise (By Bloomberg News)
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday on speculation that the Federal Reserve would wait until midyear to raise interest rates as the economy recovers from recession.
The escalating Middle East conflict also pushed up note and bond prices as traders sought the safety of government debt.
By late in the day, the 10-year note rose 20/32, to a price of 96 15/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.34 percent from 5.42 percent on Monday.
The 30-year bond climbed 25/32, to a price of 94 18/32. Its yield fell to 5.76 percent from 5.82 percent on Monday.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a four-week bill and 19-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures

Price: 99.864
High Rate: 1.750
Coupon Yield: 1.775
Low Rate: 1.700
Median Rate: 1.735
Total applied for: $42,196,635
Accepted: $21,051,487
Noncompetitive: $32,294
The four-week bills mature May 1.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.906
Investment rate: 1.780
High rate: 1.80%
Low rate: 1.74%
Median rate: 1.77%
Total applied for: $59,320,000
Accepted: $23,000,410
Noncompetitive: -0-
The 19-day cash management bills mature April 22.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: shows stocks with large price percentage gains and losses for the day. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Blomberg News, Dow Jones, Reuters); "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); DEBT NOTES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); BROADVISION INC (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); BVSN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



42 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
MiddleEast strife and its impact on oil may blunt faith in the recovery and the rise of share prices.

BYLINE:  By Jonathan Fuerbringer 

 BODY:
THE escalation of violence in the Middle East is undermining investor confidence that the recovering economy will lead to higher stock prices.
 The surprising strength of the American economy has been supporting the stock market with promises of a rebound in corporate earnings that have helped all three major indexes rebound from their lows for this year. 
 But the surge in the price of oil, which jumped to its highest in six and a half months yesterday, and the rise in interest rates, with the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note now not far from 5.5 percent, are worrying to investors.
In addition, the hope of a return to growth in corporate earnings has to be borne out in the reports for the first quarter and projections for later this year that companies are to begin releasing this month. 
Although some analysts argue that oil prices and interest rates have to move much higher for there to be a real problem for the stock market, that does not mean that the current uncertainty will not make for some extra volatility in the stock market in the months ahead.
"These things are weighing the market down," said Frederick B. Taylor, chief investment officer at the U.S. Trust Company, alluding to the Middle East, oil prices and interest rates.
There is a fear among some investors, Mr. Taylor said, that the economy is recovering so fast "that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates too soon and stifle the economy and the stock market."
In the stock market yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 48.99 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,313.71. It is still 7 percent above its low for the year and has not dropped below 10,000 since late February. The Nasdaq composite index lost 58.22 points, or 3.1 percent, to 1,804.40, and is 5 percent above its low for the year.
The main fallout so far from the violence in the Middle East has been a rise in the price of oil. In the last three weeks, the price of a barrel of crude oil for May delivery has jumped 14.5 percent, to $27.71 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Iraq has urged other Arab nations to reduce oil shipments to the United States. Kamal Kharazi, the Iranian foreign minister, said yesterday in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, that Iran might support a decision to cut off oil shipments to the United States, according to Bloomberg News.
William Schneibolk, a director at the PIRA Energy Group, an international energy consultant, said that much of the 54 percent jump in the price of crude oil since its January low was because of increased demand as the economies in the United States and other countries rebounded. But the rise in the price in the last few days, he said, was a reflection of the political and supply uncertainty created by the violence in the Middle East.
He said, however, "we don't believe that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries would take any action to interfere with the flow of oil to the United States." He noted that the United States did not import oil from Iran and that the amount of oil imported indirectly from Iraq, if shut off, could be replaced easily by increased production from other OPEC countries.
In fact, some major oil producers are already exceeding expected output. Data released yesterday showed that Russia, the world's second-largest oil exporter but not a member of OPEC, actually increased its exports of crude oil in March from February, in an apparent violation of an agreement with OPEC. Reuters, citing people in Russia's Energy Ministry, reported that Russia pumped 2.73 million barrels of oil a day abroad in March, 130,000 barrels a day more than in February.
Mr. Schneibolk did say that the current price of oil was higher now than the level that his company had forecast for this stage of the American and global economic recovery. But he said the violence in the Middle East made it hard to predict how high the price might go.
Matthew Higgins, senior international economist at Merrill Lynch, said that the rise in the price of oil was "definitely a downside risk to our forecast." But he said that the economy was growing so much faster than expected just a few weeks ago that the impact of higher oil prices "tends to fade into the background."
Just yesterday, Merrill Lynch raised its growth forecast from the fourth quarter of 2001 to the fourth quarter of this year by half a percentage point, to 4.8 percent.
Even at $30 a barrel, Mr. Higgins said that the resulting drain on consumer spending and the higher costs for businesses would reduce growth this year by just 0.3 percentage point.
Like the price of oil, interest rates have also shot higher sooner than many forecasters had expected, though a bond market rally yesterday brought yields below their recent highs. Still, the 5.34 percent yield on the 10-year Treasury note was not far from the 5.5 percent that many forecasters had predicted for the end of this year.
Mr. Higgins of Merrill Lynch said this is "a normal rise in interest rates" given the recovery of the economy and is already factored into Merrill's forecast.
The third factor is corporate earnings. With the surprising turnaround in the economy, the predictions of earnings growth this year have surged. Merrill yesterday raised its 2002 earnings growth forecast for the companies in the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks to 21 percent, up from 15 percent just a month ago.
Many investors, however, may be waiting to see if this bullish earnings outlook is supported in the first-quarter earnings reports coming out this month. The concern is that the stock markets here and abroad are already pretty expensive. "Just as was the case in early January, market valuations look set to place a barrier to any near-term upside movement for global equities," Joseph Rooney, global strategist at Lehman Brothers, said in a recent report.
Without a strong confirmation that the promised earnings growth is on the way, high stock valuations may keep many investors -- and, therefore, the stock market -- on edge for some time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BONDS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PALESTINIANS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT 

COMPANY: U S TRUST CO NA (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (51%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MALAYSIA (51%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



43 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: City Cancels Plan to Sell 3 Buildings Near the U.N. 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration announced yesterday that it would scrap the sale of three office buildings at First Avenue and 44th Street because of complaints from the largest tenant, the United Nations.
 The city's decision to abandon the deal marks a reversal of a longstanding goal of both Gov. George E. Pataki and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to sell the buildings to a private developer. More significantly, it may also open up a $50 million hole in the city's budget. 
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, said that the city valued its relationship with the United Nations, which had expressed misgivings about transferring ownership to a private landlord who might not be sympathetic to its mission. The United Nations also feared that the sale was a signal that the city and the state would not help it with a proposed $1 billion renovation and expansion program.
Mr. Doctoroff said the value of the pending deal was not significantly larger than the city's other option, retaining public ownership and taking a larger mortgage on the buildings. He said that the city should be able to raise $38 million by refinancing, releasing some reserve funds and using the current rental income.
The United Nations is "very uncomfortable with private developers generally," Mr. Doctoroff said. "Given the importance we attach to the United Nations as an economic engine for the city, we decided the economics weren't compelling enough to sell."
Proponents of the sale disagreed, suggesting that the deal would have brought the city $50 million and more than $7 million a year in taxes.
The decision may also prompt a lawsuit against the city from the buyer, a New York subsidiary of VSP Capital Holdings of Israel. The company signed a contract last December to buy the buildings. "Until my client gets formal notice, they will reserve judgment and not comment about the situation," said a spokesman for VSP, Howard J. Rubenstein.
The buildings were built by and are operated by the United Nations Development Corporation, an agency established by the city and the state to build office space and housing for the United Nations. Starting in the mid-1990's, the U.N.D.C. sold a hotel and three other buildings as part of a privatization plan. 
The U.N.D.C. voted last year to sell its remaining asset: the three office buildings on 44th Street, near First Avenue.
VSP, which made the highest offer during an auction, agreed to pay about $160 million. The company also agreed to invest $12 million in improvements. After paying off the mortgage, the city would have gotten about $50 million.
"I sure thought it was a great deal for the city," said Douglas Durst, a developer who had also bid on the properties. "We dropped out because the price had gone through the roof."
The United Nations was silent about the sale until last fall, when Secretary General Kofi Annan wrote letters to city and state officials. United Nations officials said that their opposition was encouraged by George Klein, the developer who is chairman of the U.N.D.C. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); LITIGATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AUCTIONS (68%); HOLDING COMPANIES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) BAGLI, CHARLES V; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



44 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN; 
Sept. 11 and a Recession Add to Sublet Vacancies

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
The amount of downtown office space being offered for subleasing has surged in recent months as a result of layoffs caused by the recession and the decision by some companies not to return to the area after Sept. 11. 
 Although there is plenty of space available all around Manhattan, in the downtown area the space offered by tenants has come to overshadow that being offered directly by landlords. According to Bruce E. Surry, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, a major brokerage and services company, 54 percent of all the space on the market downtown is sublease space. 
 Other companies disagreed over the exact numbers, but not the general direction. Williams Real Estate, which put the sublease sector at 47 percent of the total availability, said in a recent report that "never in its history has New York City experienced that kind of phenomenon." There is now about 4.8 million square feet of sublet space available downtown, out of roughly 95 million square feet of office space in the submarket. 
Real estate executives differ as to whether this is a temporary development that will fade away as economic recovery takes hold or something that might grow as tenants resist moving to downtown because of concerns about transportation difficulties and fears about possible health hazards.
Bruce Mosler, president of United States operations for Cushman & Wakefield, another large brokerage and services company, said he did not expect to see the recent rapid growth in sublet space continue. "I think it has stabilized and we won't see an increase in the amount of space on the market," he said.
Mr. Mosler said the fallout from the bankruptcy of the Enron Corporation caused a delay in corporate decision making as companies checked to see if their balance sheets were in good order. He said companies would soon move to take advantage of downtown rents that are a bargain compared with Midtown.
But James Meiskin, president of Plymouth Partners, a brokerage firm that represents tenants, said a lot of his clients were reluctant to look downtown. "Downtown is not currently a priority location for New York-based companies," he said. "There are concerns about health-related issues. There are transportation issues and infrastructure issues. A lot of companies are scared. And they see that a lot of companies that were in the World Trade Center are not going back to that area."
The amount of sublease space downtown grew from 2.3 million square feet in the second quarter of 2001 to 3.7 million square feet in the first quarter of this year. Typically when the amount of space on the market increases, rents soften. Space that averaged $41.46 a square foot in asking rent in early 2001 was down to $39.72 in the first quarter of this year, according to figures compiled by Cushman & Wakefield.
One traditional attraction of office space downtown was that it was cheaper than in Midtown. Although the average rental in Midtown is down from its high of $64.11 a square foot in 2000, it remains, at $51.74, considerably more expensive than downtown, according to the Cushman & Wakefield figures.
Sublease space has also increased in Midtown, where the total vacancy rate was 13.5 percent at the end of last year. The amount of sublease space increased to 7.2 million square feet in the first quarter of this year from 5.1 million square feet in the second quarter of last year, according to Cushman & Wakefield. But with a total of 21.3 million square feet of space available in Midtown, the sublease segment is less of a factor than in downtown, accounting for about 29 percent of the space on the market.
Since financial incentives are available to employers who bring jobs downtown, brokers are urging prospective tenants to lock in bargains now and advising landlords not to be too picky if brokers show up with a tenant ready to sign a deal.
"The demand for space downtown is not deep," said David L. Itzkowitz, a senior vice president of the Equis Corporation, a brokerage firm. "Our advice to landlords is to sign the first guy who passes the smell test, because we don't know when the next one will come along."
On the other side of the table, tenant's brokers are urging tenants to lock in deals while rental rates are low and before the effect of billions of dollars of federal redevelopment aid become visible. "Going forward, we are telling people that this is a good time to make a deal while the market is low," said Marc R. Shapses, a senior managing director of Julien J. Studley, a brokerage firm that represents tenants. "The federal government has committed $21 billion and downtown will be the place to be in two or three years."
Tax breaks and other financial incentives intended to retain businesses south of Canal Street and attract others to the area should begin to have a powerful impact as the area near the World Trade Center is cleaned up and streets are reopened, said Augustus B. Field, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield.
"These incentives are worth $3,500 a person and they are available to sublets," he said. And the incentives are even higher in the area immediately adjacent to the former trade center. "We are talking $5,000 per employee at 1 and 2 World Financial Center and 1 Liberty Plaza," he said, referring to buildings close enough to the trade center site to have been damaged in the collapse of the twin towers.
Although not a lot of leases have been signed recently, brokers report an increase in activity, with prospective tenants looking at available spaces. "There is an increase in the amount of space being shown and the number of people looking," Mr. Surry said. "That will eventually lead to leases, although it is a slow process."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about an increase in office space offered for sublease in downtown Manhattan omitted attribution for the vacancy rate in Midtown at the end of last year. That figure, 13.5 percent, was calculated by Williams Real Estate. Other figures in that section of the article were supplied by Cushman & Wakefield, which calculated the Midtown vacancy rate as 8.2 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur L. Bocchi, a senior managing director of Cushman & Wakefield, showing floor space at 44 Wall Street near Williams. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) Chart: "Sublets Surge"Sublet space available south of Canal Street in Manhattan has grown as companies have relocated or laid off workers. Graph shows millions of square feet available from 1992 through 2002. Figures are quarterly.(Source: Cushman & Wakefield) Chart: "Data Update"Value of constuction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate. Graph tracks regional nonresidential contracts, measured in billions, for south, west, midwest, and northeast from 2000 through 2002. NATIONAL -- NONRESIDENTIAL, IN BILLIONSFeb. '01: $180.4Dec. '01: 156.2Jan. '02: 162.4Feb. '02: 169.8(Source: F.W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); RECESSION (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TRENDS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); TERRORISM (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HIJACKING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (66%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); 

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



45 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Complaint Accuses New York City of Bias Against Mentally Ill 

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Lawyers for the poor filed a federal civil rights complaint yesterday, charging that New York City's welfare programs discriminate against people with psychiatric disabilities, leaving many mentally ill people without the public assistance they need for food and shelter.
 The complaint, filed with the Office for Civil Rights in the Department of Health and Human Services, contends that the city's complex welfare application process and strict work requirements make no allowances for such disabilities, in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Rehabilitation Act. The filing by four legal advocacy organizations in New York asks the government to investigate and to require the city to change its policies and practices. 
 Like other complaints filed recently in Wisconsin, Georgia and Oregon, it reflects emerging national concern about the impact of the 1996 welfare overhaul on people with chronic health impairments and severe learning disabilities. 
Michael Carter, regional manager of the Office of Civil Rights, called the complaint "a serious matter" and said an investigation had begun. David Neustadt, a spokesman for the Human Resources Administration, said an internal review of welfare practices was under way.
"We are examining all our systems to ensure that we are appropriately meeting all clients where there are, including clients' mental disabilities," Mr. Neustadt said. "We will review the complaint when we receive it, to see if it can assist us in this process." 
In one case cited in the complaint, a man who had a nervous disorder and claustrophobia and who was subject to panic attacks could not attend an appointment for a disability assessment on an upper floor because he was unable to take the elevator and was told it was against the rules to use the stairs.
Later, after finally persuading a security guard to let him walk upstairs, he was given an evaluation that listed "elevator operator" as one of the jobs he could perform. 
Another case concerns a woman whose psychiatrist wrote the city that she was psychotic, actively hallucinating, and was unable to work. 
But Health Services Systems, the private company that does disability assessments under contract for the city, found her "employable with limitations" and assigned her to the Work Experience Program, known as workfare. When she missed a few days because of the side effects of her antipsychotic medication, her benefits were stopped.
"The New York City Human Resources Administration has done little or nothing to address the needs of individuals with psychiatric disabilities," said Cary LaCheen, a lawyer at the Welfare Law Center, which filed the lawsuit together with the Urban Justice Center, MFY Legal Services and Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation A, all advocacy organizations.
William Lienhard, a lawyer with the Mental Health Project of the Urban Justice Center, says the problem begins with a daunting benefits application process requiring long waits and more than eight appointments, in locations across the city. No accommodation is made for applicants like J. V., a 57-year-old man with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, a learning disability, memory blackouts and neurological symptoms that include visible twitching. J. V., the complaint said, repeatedly tried and failed to make it through to the end of the process.
"These are not minor, bureaucratic problems," Mr. Lienhard said. "Because of H.R.A.'s systemic failure to give people with psychiatric disabilities equal access to benefits, some of New York's neediest citizens are unnecessarily losing their homes and winding up in psychiatric wards or on the street."
In January of last year, the Office of Civil Rights in Washington issued guidelines to the states detailing the need to reconcile welfare-to-work rules with the "reasonable modifications" required by law for people with disabilities, including mental illness.
The same month, the Civil Rights Office found that Massachusetts had discriminated against people with severe learning disabilities in its welfare-to-work program by failing to provide the help they needed to become employable, and then denying them benefits. 
Studies across the country have found high levels of mental and physical illness among long-term recipients left behind on the shrunken welfare rolls, and also among parents who were cut from welfare for failing to meet work requirements, and who remained unemployed. 
"It's refreshing, to say the least, to finally see that there are organizations that are championing the cause of persons with special needs," Mr. Carter said. "Not to speak on the merits, but clearly this is an opportunity to right the wrongs, if that be the case." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (92%); MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (79%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); PHOBIAS (78%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (78%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%); DISABLED ACCESS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%) WELFARE (US); SUITS AND LITIGATION; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS 

COMPANY: MFY LEGAL SERVICES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



46 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Swallowing Pride, More Parents Seek Tuition Aid 

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

 BODY:
They are venturing into the private schools' financial aid offices for the first time, somewhat embarrassed and sometimes hiding their troubles from their own children. They are parents who have always paid their private school tuition bills on time, and now they have seen their stocks tumble in value, their year-end bonuses evaporate and their clients disappear. Some lost their jobs; others lost their spouses in the World Trade Center attack.
 In recent months, hundreds of affluent and middle-class families in the New York City area have been asking for financial aid so their children can continue attending private school. 
 In response, private schools are devising varying strategies to meet the surging demands for assistance. Fieldston School in Riverdale, the Bronx, which has 18 families who have never received assistance applying for aid, has raised an emergency fund worth tens of thousands of dollars to get the students through the academic year, school officials say.
"How can we turn our back on families who have paid tuition for 9, 10, 11 years?" said James Thompson, the assistant head of admissions and financial aid at Fieldston. "For the next academic year, we will spread the money out to cover more families."
Since Fieldston does not plan to increase its total financial aid budget by an amount sufficient to cover all of the new awards, some families now receiving aid will get less help next year, the school said.
Horace Mann School in Riverdale, on the other hand, has decided to reduce total aid for incoming students to help current students through. As many as 15 entering students who would have received financial aid if they had applied in previous years will not receive assistance, said Lisa Moreira, the director of admissions and financial aid. The saved money would go to the 30 to 35 current students who have now requested help.
Calhoun School, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, plans to dig deeper into its endowment to meet the surging demand for aid, hoping that its new capital campaign will yield enough money to cover the additional families applying for aid.
Of the 13 families who have newly applied for assistance for their children already attending Calhoun, four have been rejected because their financial situations are not deemed grave enough to warrant aid.
The requests for aid seem to be increasing at many, if not most, of the area's 100 or so private schools. "More families are requesting aid than ever before," said Victoria Goldman, co-author of the Manhattan Family Guide to Private Schools and Selective Public Schools. "Families have called me, saying they have just maxed out on their credit cards. The parents have some very difficult choices to make, whether to forgo the summer vacation, the new S.U.V., or to pull their kids out of the private schools."
Jean-Jacques and Carole Ferron, of Larchmont, N.Y., are one couple who made such a decision about their two daughters, Lana, 10, and Mae, 7. Business at the family's SoHo store, which sells miniature Zen gardens and stone fountains, dropped by at least half after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, and the Ferrons had to dismiss a few employees. Natives of France, they have had trouble coming up with enough cash to pay for their daughters' private school, the French American School of New York in Larchmont.
"We will eat less, but we will make sure that the girls get a proper education," Mrs. Ferron said. "I want them to be truly bilingual."
Savings in everyday expenses, however, aren't enough to cover the girls' $23,000 annual tuition bill, so Mrs. Ferron is considering asking for financial aid from the school. But she has wondered whether her daughters would be eligible, since the family is neither about to lose its house nor having trouble putting food on the table. They will still take the summer vacation in France but will stay with friends at no charge.
"We will skip the extra party shoes and stop buying new clothing," Mrs. Ferron said. "But I think some families are much more in need than us."
So she has contacted Academic Management Services, of Swansea, Mass., which negotiates with schools for extensions on tuition bills on behalf of parents. It has turned the Ferrons' lump-sum tuition bills into monthly payments, which are still two months behind. (Since most families want to keep their financial difficulties private, the Ferrons are one of the few families who agreed to be interviewed.) 
The sour economy has also made it more difficult for families with children entering private schools for the first time to pay their tuition bills. As a result, some schools are seeing a higher percentage of newly admitted students requesting aid.
At Friends Seminary on East 16th Street in Manhattan, for instance, 36 percent of entering sixth graders have applied for financial aid. Last year, 25 percent did. 
In other cases, parents who had planned to send their children to private schools prepped them instead for the entrance exams of the city's prestigious public schools like Hunter College High School and Stuyvesant High School, said Cynthia Bing, a leader of the Parents League of New York, a nonprofit organization for parents whose children attend either public or private schools. It's less expensive, she said, to pay a tutor for a few months than to pay tuition for a few years.
Although private schools are undergoing greater strains on their financial resources, most schools are in better financial position to help needy families than they were in the last recession. During the last decade, almost all of the private schools in and around the city received large donations that bolstered their endowments. And private school application numbers in this region held up last fall despite the economic downturn. Demand for spots still far exceeds the supply.
So some schools are even willing to give proud but needy families a nudge to apply for aid. 
"It's awkward to them," Ginger Curwen, a spokeswoman for Fieldston, said of families who have paid full tuition for years and never sought aid. "They are not used to asking for help. They are not used to going through the paperwork."
So when Fieldston's financial aid office heard through another parent that a family, whose business had shriveled after Sept. 11, was having a hard time meeting tuition payments, it reached out to them.
"The family did not want to ask for aid from the school, especially the father, whose pride was so deep," said Mr. Thompson of Fieldston. "We encouraged them to call and told him there was really nothing to be embarrassed about."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Education Page last Wednesday about an increase in the number of students seeking financial aid at New York area private schools misstated fund-raising plans of the Calhoun School in Manhattan. It will raise money dedicated to financial aid in an annual fund-raising drive. It will not use money raised in its capital campaign, which is restricted to building expansion, nor from its endowment fund.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Finances are tighter for Carole Ferron and her husband. Their daughters, Mae, left, and Lana, attend the French American School of New York. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (93%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; FINANCES; TUITION 

PERSON: ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



47 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: WARLORDS; 
Courted by U.S. and Iran, an Afghan Governor Plays One Side Off the Other

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

DATELINE: HERAT, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
United States Army Special Operations soldiers based here say they have formed a close relationship in recent months with Ismail Khan, the powerful governor in western Afghanistan who American officials fear is being courted by Iranian hard-liners. 
 The soldiers meet with him once or twice a week, several of them said. He has even taken them horseback riding (with an audience of about 1,000 spectators, to the soldiers' chagrin). "He's a down-to-earth guy," one American soldier said. 
 That closer bond, along with international pressure, appears to have driven Iranian conservatives underground in their efforts to gain influence in western Afghanistan, international officials and Mr. Khan's commanders say. 
Mr. Khan now seems to be playing America and Iran off each other to the region's advantage. Iran is reconstructing the road from Herat to its border. America has promised to clean out the area's canals. 
But while foreigners vie for his favor, Afghans, including some of his own commanders, are expressing frustration with the self-proclaimed emir. He is refusing to confirm four appointees appointed by the central government in Kabul to posts in Herat. He has appointed mullahs and archconservatives to key positions. An office for the promotion of virtue and prevention of vice, a Taliban-era fixture, has reopened here. And ethnic Pashtuns say soldiers and commanders loyal to Mr. Khan, an ethnic Tajik, are beating, robbing and imprisoning them. 
Halfway through the interim government's tenure, Herat illustrates perhaps better than anywhere else the challenges in governing the border regions of Afghanistan, where neighboring countries vie for influence and warlords rule. Mr. Khan shows how warlords with foreign backing can be a force for stability. But that backing may entrench such men so deeply in their posts that it will be hard for the transitional government meant to take office later this year to dislodge them.
United Nations officials and Mr. Khan's commanders say his military strength has clearly been bolstered by Iran, even though its open efforts to gain influence have tapered off recently. Much of Iran's aid came after Mr. Khan's return to Herat -- which he had governed in the early 1990's -- in early November, and before the inauguration of Hamid Karzai, the country's interim leader, in late December. 
In that period, top Iranian military officials ensconced themselves in Herat. One Iranian military group that set up shop was the Helpers, who had aided in the fight against the Taliban, according to Zaher Jan Azimi, one of Mr. Khan's top commanders. He said the group was later asked to leave, because "it wasn't clear who they were working for." 
Several hundred soldiers from the Iranian Army of Muhammad -- a force trained in Iranian camps to help take on the Taliban -- also returned to Herat after the Taliban fell, Mr. Azimi said. Around 100 of them have been integrated into Mr. Khan's military corps, under the direction of the Party of Unity, a Shiite, mostly Hazara group which has historically had close ties to Iran.
Mr. Azimi said under an agreement between Iran and Burhanuddin Rabbani, who acted as president from the fall of the Taliban until the Bonn agreement took effect, Iran sent the Herat police around 500 MP-5 submachine guns in December.
In addition, a United Nations official said, he saw Iranian Kalashnikovs being unloaded from a truck at a security commissary; the official said weapons were also flown into the southern Shindand air base, which reopened in January. Afghan soldiers who defected to one of Mr. Khan's rivals say they were being trained by Iranians several months ago at a base overlooking Herat.
Mr. Azimi said he could not say for certain that the Party of Unity had stopped receiving Iranian aid. Its officials deny any such assistance. 
Whatever help was provided to Mr. Khan, his army is now a military machine -- 50,000 to 60,000 strong and omnipresent. Rows of tanks sit on a hill, their barrels trained on Herat. Soldiers are everywhere, even in hamlets. Even some of Mr. Khan's aides have suggested to him that perhaps he does not need such a large, visible army.
A sign in the headquarters of his Fourth Army Brigade reads, "To have a national army protects our freedom and our Islam." But United Nations officials say Mr. Khan has been slow to come into line with the idea of a national army because he does not want to give up his own. 
It is hard to see how the central government will persuade him to do so: it has no economic leverage over him. In addition to the customs duties and taxes that Herat secures from its borders with Iran and Turkmenistan, it has a lot of cash left behind by the Taliban, who departed in haste. Bank officials here say Mr. Khan's coffers are almost as full as those of the central government, which has about $6 million in its treasury.
He was offered a position as head of a national commission on disarmament, which some Heratis saw as a way to ease him out of the governorship. But United Nations officials say his communication with Kabul has been so poor that it is not clear whether the offer still stands. 
Mr. Khan's intelligence chief and close aide, Nasir Ahmad Alavi, dismissed all of those criticisms. "People want to show Ismail Khan -- a famous man from jihad -- is against the interim government," he said. "This is not the truth."
Mr. Alavi was equally dismissive of dozens of Pashtun accounts of robbery, beatings and imprisonment at the hands of Mr. Khan's soldiers or commanders. Such charges, he said, come from "Talib commanders now living in Kandahar who want to cause division and make trouble."
In fact, the accusations come from ordinary Pashtuns interviewed in Herat and surrounding districts; in two local refugee camps; in Kandahar, where many Pashtuns have gone to seek help from the governor; and at the Pakistani border, which many Pashtuns are seeking to cross. Some of the stories, too, are from Pashtuns who fled persecution in the north, in the territory controlled by Gen. Rashid Dostum, only to be harassed by Mr. Khan's soldiers. Many have described relatives being taken to jail, where soldiers demand money for their release.
Mr. Alavi did say that until recently, when more than 200 prisoners were set free at the behest of elders from Kandahar, there were more than 500 Taliban -- meaning Pashtun -- in Herat's central jail. He also said that Herat's highest-ranking Taliban prisoner, the former governor of Badghis, had been released. Those remaining, he conceded, are low-level, but they are to stay in jail until their innocence can be determined. 
"If we release them all now, it will create a kind of instability," he said.
Mr. Khan has been quite open about his antipathy to the country's exiled Pashtun king, Mohammed Zahir Shah, who is now scheduled to return in mid-April. And in this, too, he is in line with Iran, where he lived after escaping from a Taliban prison. Some say that this time around, Mr. Khan is showing other signs of Iran's ideological influence, too. 
He appointed as university head a conservative theologian who used his first speech to vow that he would never allow coeducation. If he could not find enough female teachers, he said, the women's section would be closed. The university was coeducational during Mr. Khan's previous tenure.
The reopened office to promote virtue and prevent vice is in a new location with no jail. But it has banned female vocalists, told shopkeepers to take down alluring pictures of female singers and jailed some who did not listen. 
Sayed Mahmad Houssein Hosseini, 29, who is temporarily overseeing the office, said it was needed because a society liberated from the Taliban had become too libertine. He said the office had no military officers, though a car containing a mullah and five soldiers pulled out of its parking lot a few minutes later.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ismail Khan is emerging as a powerful force in western Afghanistan. (James Hill) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); TALIBAN (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); HORSES (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); TERRORISM (59%); RELIGION (51%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (57%) KHAN, ISMAIL; WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (95%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) AFGHANISTAN; HERAT (AFGHANISTAN); IRAN

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



48 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: DEMONSTRATIONS; 
Anger in the Streets Is Exerting Pressure On Arab Moderates

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, April 2 

 BODY:
Thousands of Jordanians braved a frigid downpour to march on Parliament today, demanding that the kingdom sever ties with Israel, while protesters in Egypt packed the streets around Cairo University for a fifth straight day.
 Up to now the anger in the streets has not gone beyond the control of any of the autocratic governments in the region. But officials spend each day and much of the night monitoring television reports or checking their mobile phones for the urgent headlines flashed there by subscription services. 
 They dread the moment when a major death toll -- or worse, news of the demise or exile of the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat -- will put moderate Arab governments squarely on a collision course with their explosive, aggrieved populations.
"It's a volatile situation open to all possibilities," said Adnan Abu-Odeh, formerly a royal political adviser here and an ambassador to the United Nations. "The only truth is that people are angry and frustrated. So far the demonstrations have not been destabilizing, but nobody knows what will happen in the next 24 hours." 
The circumstances of Mr. Arafat's encirclement in Ramallah, with Israeli soldiers stationed right outside his door, make senior officials especially edgy. 
Despite Israeli pledges not to harm him, there is widespread concern that he might suffer some fatal accident. "The first casualty is the peace process," said Marwan Muashar, Jordan's foreign minister, urging Washington to press for an unconditional Israeli withdrawal from the compound. "This is a regional problem. They are putting their Arab friends at risk in the region."
The governments of Egypt and Jordan are counted among the most vulnerable. They have repeatedly tried to explain their peace treaties and full diplomatic relations with Israel as a means of exerting positive pressure on the fate of the Palestinian cause. But skepticism over such arguments is running high.
"The Arab regimes look more impotent than they ever have," Mr. Abu-Odeh said. "Their legitimacy has been reduced enormously. There is an implied test: if you say relations are rewarded, show me how useful they are. People want proof that the government's good relations with America and Israel are meaningful in that they will help both end the siege on the Palestinian people and Arafat."
Up to now the Bush administration has shown scant sign of being ready to meet such demands. Indeed, the president has made clear that he regards the Israeli operation in the West Bank as broadly justified, and he has focused his demands on Mr. Arafat, insisting that he renounce terror, clearly and in Arabic.
Cabinet ministers here said dozens of protests flare up daily throughout the country, with 38 counted on Friday alone.
The Amman march today was the largest in the capital since Israel activated its intense assault on the West Bank on Friday. The protest included a huge contingent from the Muslim Brotherhood flaunting a picture of Osama bin Laden and chanting in favor of attacking Israel.
"The army of Muhammad will return," they intoned. "The army of Muhammad is at the border."
Senior officials and political analysts said governments in the area needed to take some measure to assuage the anger and frustration on Arab streets. Egypt and Jordan have conferred on whether to downgrade relations with Israel by expelling its ambassadors.
"The demonstrations are getting stronger by the day," Mr. Muashar said. "The street is literally boiling." He said the continuing Israeli assault, combined with Washington's approval, was forcing moderate Arab governments to distance themselves from the United States.
"We are being forced to take steps we don't want to take," he said, "because people are angry and public opinion in the Arab world cannot be ignored."
Mr. Muashar was particularly critical of Washington for suggesting in the midst of an Israeli assault, with tanks besieging his compound, that Mr. Arafat should somehow be reining in Palestinian extremists.
"The leader is under siege and cut off from the outside world, and there are demands that he do more to stop the violence," Mr. Muashar said. "It is ludicrous."
After five days of resisting public pressure for a legal demonstration, the Jordanian government finally acceded to the request by opposition parties to march. But they tried to take the sting out of it by dispatching a few ministers to take part. 
Marchers in the crowd of about 6,000 who walked through the city blocking traffic for three hours were scathing in their criticism of Jordan's links to Washington and its peace treaty with Israel.
"The Jordanian government should throw out the American ambassador even before the Israeli, because it is only America who can pressure Israel to stop this aggression," said Wadha Rajoub. Like many demonstrators, she said she had turned out in part because she had family in the West Bank. Her cousin Jibril Rajoub, the West Bank security chief for the Palestinian Authority, is also under siege.
She was horrified by television pictures of the Palestinian dead in Ramallah being buried in a mass grave on hospital grounds because the morgue there had run out of room and Israel had barred their transportation elsewhere. 
Protesters poured scorn on the official government line that it should not break ties with Israel because it could still influence the Sharon government to ease the measures against the Palestinians.
"Reality shows that you cannot trust the Israelis nor influence them," said Omar Hudhud, one of dozens of attorneys from the Lawyers Syndicate marching, many of them in their professional robes. 
Officials in Jordan and Egypt have emphasized that they will not break ties with Israel, despite the demands of their populations. But those outside the government here speculated how long they could stick to that pledge, especially as demonstrations increase in magnitude daily.
Hasan Abu-Nimah, a former Jordanian ambassador to the United Nations, suggested that Washington should realize that its long-term interests did not lie in letting the Sharon administration pulverize the Palestinian Authority.
"To encourage Sharon, or to provide cover for what he is doing, is bad for Israel," he said. "Destroying Palestinian society is only going to create more suicide bombers."
The Arab League announced a special meeting of its foreign ministers in Cairo on Wednesday to consider what action might be taken. Iraq announced that it would press its proposal to revive the 1973 Arab oil embargo -- a plan highly unlikely to be enacted, given the state of the economy among exporters.
Some members want countries bordering Israel to open their borders to allow volunteer fighters to cross. Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, made such a similar suggestion a day earlier, mocking the Arabs by saying their arms would be more useful sold as scrap and remade into cooking pots.
But with no countries in the area ready to go to war with Israel, it is virtually certain that the suggestion will be rejected.
Officials in Jordan noted that it had recently reinstated its checkpoints along the Jordan valley after a team sent by Hezbollah in Lebanon had tried to cross into Israel.
Thousands of demonstrators in Cairo trying to march from Cairo University to the nearby apartment building housing the Israeli Embassy were again turned back with water cannons and tear gas.
In a separate protest at the Egyptian Foreign Ministry, crowds of artists, intellectuals and union leaders -- who have long opposed relations with Israel -- urged the government to expel its ambassador and sever ties with the "Zionist enemy."
In Tunis, the Tunisian capital, police in riot gear, brandishing tear gas and truncheons, battled to keep several thousand students within the campus of the national engineering school, where they were chanting things like "Anger! Anger! No more summits, no more words!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of Jordanians marched on Parliament in Amman yesterday, demanding that the government break off relations with Israel. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); RIOTS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); DEATHS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); ARMED FORCES (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (93%) EGYPT (96%); JORDAN (96%); ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) ISRAEL; EGYPT; JORDAN; RAMALLAH (WEST BANK); CAIRO (EGYPT)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



49 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Sharon Offers Arafat 'One-Way Ticket' to Exile
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel said Yasir Arafat could have passage into exile, a step that would quash any remaining prospects for his restoration as Israel's partner in peace talks. The Palestinian leader said he would choose martyrdom over exile. European nations condemned the idea of exile, and the United States discouraged it. A1

Israel pressed its spreading military assault in the West Bank, with much of the fighting in the biblical city of Bethlehem, but a new front threatened to open up in the north after Hezbollah guerrillas fired mortars and antitank missiles from Lebanon. A8

Washington is struggling to forge an effective Mideast policy. A1

The United Nations Security Council and the European Union searched for ways to end the fighting. A9

Protesters took to the streets in Jordan and Egypt, Arab countries whose leaders have been pressed to defend their peace treaties and full diplomatic relations with Israel. A1

U.S. Jews Attacked in Germany
Two American Jews were attacked on Sunday in Berlin. The government stepped up security around sites associated with Judaism. A3

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A12-13

Pakistani Leader Visits Afghanistan to Mend Fences
President Pervez Musharraf made a surprise visit to Kabul in a gesture intended to soothe lingering bitterness from Pakistan's support of the Taliban regime that ended only after Sept. 11. The general also rejected any future American military operations against Al Qaeda or Taliban forces who have fled to Pakistan. A1

New Attacks Suspected
An important lieutenant to Osama bin Laden, Abu Zubaydah, was organizing new attacks on American targets when he was captured in Pakistan last week, officials said. A12

NATIONAL A14-17

U.S. Indicts Associates Of Illinois Governor
The campaign committee of Gov. George Ryan of Illinois, a Republican, and two of his top former aides were indicted on federal charges of racketeering, mail fraud and conspiracy to obstruct justice. The new indictments bring to 48 the number of defendants in the four-year-old investigation stemming from Mr. Ryan's tenure as secretary of state. The governor has not been personally implicated. A14

Rearranging U.S. Books
The Bush administration said it would juggle finances this week so that the statutory ceiling on government borrowing would not be breached. Democrats quickly asserted that the move illustrated the irresponsibility of the tax cut that the president pushed through Congress last year. A16

EDUCATION B7

Suit Over Corpses in Class
A Florida man filed a suit accusing Lynn University, in Boca Raton, of using his wife's body for mortuary science students to practice embalming without the family's consent. The suit also says hundreds of corpses may have been taken to the university without families' consent. A14

Bush's Head Start Proposals
President Bush proposed improvements in teacher training for Head Start and asked Congress to spend $45 million over five years for research on child literacy programs. A16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

U.S. Choice for Warming Panel
The State Department has decided to back an economist and engineer from India, Dr. Rajendra K. Pachauri, for chairman of an international pa

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Pensions Drain City Budget As Rolls Rise, Funds Shrink
Pension fund investments have lost more than $9 billion at a time when the city must pay out greater benefits to retired teachers, police officers and other former employees, deepening the city's fiscal crisis. Two years ago, the city estimated that it would need to contribute $817 million to the pension funds in the fiscal year that begins July 1. That cost has now ballooned to more than $2 billion. A1

Plea Expected in Jail Assault
Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, suspected by the government of being a senior aide to Osama bin Laden, plans to plead guilty today to charges that he tried to murder a federal jail guard in Manhattan in late 2000, according to people familiar with the case. B1

Skakel Murder Trial Begins
Jury selection began in Norwalk, Conn., in the trial of Michael C. Skakel, 41, who is accused of murdering a 15-year-old neighbor, Martha Moxley, in Greenwich in 1975. Mr. Skakel faces life in prison if he is convicted. B1

Fire Dept. Seeks Diversity
Officials said they would begin a campaign to hire more blacks, Hispanics and women as firefighters, 93 percent of whom are white men. B3

ARTS E1-12

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES C16

John U. Monro
A white educator who left as dean of Harvard College in 1967 for a low-paying job with an impoverished black college in Alabama, he was 89. C16

Benjamin Harkarvy
The Juilliard School's dance division director since 1992, he was 71.

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Andersen-KPMG Talks Falter
Negotiations to sell much of Arthur Andersen's foreign division to KPMG collapsed, potentially cutting off one of Andersen's few financial lifelines since the Enron debacle. C1

Ruling on TV Ownership Policy
The federal appeals court in Washington ordered the F.C.C. to reconsider its rule that in practice prevents a single company from owning more than one television station in a small or medium-sized market. C1

Mideast Crisis Roils Markets
The price of crude reached its highest level in six months, nearly $28 a barrel, stoked by fears that the worsening Mideast violence could lead to a disruption of supply. C1

The Nasdaq lost 58.22 points, or 3.1 percent, to 1,804.40; the Dow fell 48.99 points, to 10,313.71; and the S.& P. 500 shed 9.78 points, to 1,136.76. C11

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-12

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Rebuilding downtown; the cancer of suicide bombing; a more balanced farm bill.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E7
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); RELIGION (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TERRORISM (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); AL-QAEDA (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); TAX LAW (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (66%); BUSINESS TORTS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); DEBT CEILING (60%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (68%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); JORDAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



50 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Downtown 

 BODY:
The temporary memorials to Sept. 11 are now in place, and the clearing of the World Trade Center site is almost completed. There should be a sense of progress in Lower Manhattan. Instead we have a queasy feeling of slippage and lack of focus.
 Our concerns involve planning and money. The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, formed last November by Gov. George Pataki to oversee the site's renewal, seems to be taking its time in devising a master plan. Nobody wants to rush into a short-range solution that becomes a long-range embarrassment. Yet the corporation appears to envision an orderly series of reports on various aspects of the redevelopment challenge, one by one, month by month. If this year passes without concrete public proposals, critics may begin to ask whether Governor Pataki, who powerfully influences the redevelopment process, was delaying hard choices until after the November election. The corporation justifies its methodical tempo by suggesting that what happens above ground depends on what happens underground. In truth, long-term and short-term, above ground and below ground, everything needs to be considered together. 
 One thing that is happening rather quickly is the distribution of money to businesses as a means of inducing them to remain in Lower Manhattan. Using part of the $2 billion in federal aid at its disposal, the corporation has been offering incentives to residents and small businesses that want to stay in the area or move there. At the same time, the city is inviting applications for federal funds from large corporations.
It is questionable whether direct handouts are the best way to attract or retain big businesses downtown. If New York fritters away the money it received from the federal government, the recent good will between the city and Washington could be poisoned. A better use of these funds, in most cases, would be to invest them in transportation and other infrastructure projects in order to make downtown a cleaner, more accessible and efficient place to work. Some company executives admit privately that while they would certainly consider cash offers, they would regard a clear economic development strategy for downtown as a stronger inducement to long-term commitment.
That development strategy, in the end, will be up to Mr. Pataki and New York City's mayor, Michael Bloomberg. Some are urging them to go slowly. Yet the longer they wait, the harder it will be to get corporations to throw in their lot with a Lower Manhattan where the future is still a vague package of published reports. 
The planners seem to have reached some easy points of consensus: Rebuilding the World Trade Center towers is off the table, and instead of another massive plaza people are focusing on the more attractive idea of reopening city streets to relieve traffic congestion and restore avenues of light. Almost everyone agrees that Lower Manhattan should become a lively, 24-hour community, with a mix of housing, offices and cultural facilities. The World Trade Center site could expand and anchor that mix, with the memorial as its centerpiece. 
John Whitehead, the corporation's chairman, has talked about an international competition for the memorial. That is a good idea. The victims came from nearly 80 countries, and most were employed in global trade and finance. There should be guidelines for the scope of the memorial soon, so competition can get started. The final choice should be, as with any enduring memorial, a creation more symbolic than literal. The 9/11 memorial should be a great work of art worthy of the site, the memory of the victims and the spirit of this creative city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIJACKING (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); TERRORISM (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MAYORS (69%); ELECTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) WHITEHEAD, JOHN C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



51 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Prices At a 6-Month High On Mideast Worries 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
The price of crude oil climbed to the highest level in six months yesterday, nearly $28 a barrel, stoked by fears that the worsening violence in the Middle East could lead to a disruption of oil supplies.
 But most industry analysts discounted the chances of an embargo by oil-producing countries or a terrorist attack against their oil operations. They pointed out that yesterday's rise in commodity prices was building on a gradual but substantial run-up in oil prices that started at the beginning of the year, mainly because of reductions in output that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries began in 2001. 
 The more expensive crude oil has pushed up retail gasoline prices by about 20 percent over the last month. The average price of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline is now $1.37 nationwide, compared with $1.14 on March 4, based on data from the Energy Information Administration, the analysis arm of the Energy Department. Industry analysts warned that the greater demand for gasoline that usually arrives with warmer weather could raise prices further in coming months. 
On the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, the price of crude oil for May delivery settled at $27.71 a barrel, up 3.1 percent from $26.88 a barrel late Monday. Nervousness in the market increased as OPEC members issued conflicting messages about what nations in the Middle East might do in response to the Israeli-Palestinian violence. 
A statement in Baghdad yesterday from the Iraqi foreign ministry said Iraq was ready to "use oil as a weapon" against the United States for its support of Israel.
But the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, said Arab countries relied too heavily on oil revenue to forsake the money in a Mideast political struggle. Prince Saud was quoted in Le Monde as saying, "If they want to strengthen themselves against the Israeli aggression, they have no alternative but to continue exploiting oil and gas."
Intensifying violence in the Middle East has in the past led to higher prices, oil industry experts noted, but once oil traders recognize that the situation is more stable than news reports might indicate, prices usually drift down. By some views, relations between the United States and Arab countries are more resilient than they were in 1973, during the first Arab oil embargo, and there are more sources of oil beyond the Middle East now. 
"An oil embargo is unlikely," said Lord Browne, the chief executive of BP, in an interview in his New York office yesterday. "There is so much surplus capacity, the shortfall would come from somewhere else. There is no great cause for concern."
Still, some analysts said the oil markets would remain volatile when Middle East fighting worsened. "In the absence of any lasting solution to the conflict, there will be a knee-jerk reaction in the markets every time there is an escalation between the Israelis and the Palestinians," said Raad Alkadiri, manager of country risk analysis at the Petroleum Finance Company, a consulting firm in Washington.
Crude oil prices have climbed about 40 percent since January as a result of OPEC's decision last year to cut production by about five million barrels a day. But OPEC members routinely produce more than their formal quotas, and non-OPEC countries that agreed to the cuts, most notably Russia, have also kept exports high.
The supply of crude oil on world markets was pared after Iraq's exports fell in the first quarter, to a range of 1.3 million to 1.7 million barrels a day, from 2 million to 2.2 million barrels last year, Mr. Alkadiri said.
In June, when a United States economic recovery is expected to be in full swing and oil demand is growing, prices are likely to rise and OPEC will face pressure to increase production. But if the Mideast turmoil worsens, OPEC could seize the opportunity at its June meeting in Vienna to demonstrate its anger over American Mideast policies.
"If the situation is still festering," Mr. Alkadiri said, "and the perception is that the international community has done nothing and let the Israelis run riot, there is an outside chance that OPEC could say the high price of oil is not a product of supply constraints and so there is no need to increase output formally. That would be a very, very tough signal to the U.S. in particular. But we're a long way from that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gasoline prices heading toward $2 a gallon were seen yesterday in San Francisco. Across the country, the average price of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was $1.37, up about 20 percent in the last month, amid market talk of supply cutoff risks. (Associated Press) Chart:Fears of worsening violence in the Middle East have pushed up oil prices, but analysts said the risk of supply disruptions may have been overstated. Graph tracks the price a barrel of crude oil, near-month contract, from August 2001 through April 2002.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TERRORISM (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; SAUD AL FAISAL (PRINCE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (99%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%) IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA; MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



52 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2053 words

HEADLINE: City's Pension Funds Reel After Taking a Dual Blow 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER and ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
One of the most damaging but least scrutinized causes of New York City's current fiscal crisis is the city's pension system, which is being forced to pay out more generous benefits to retired civil servants just as its investments have lost more than $9 billion in the stock market.
 That one-two punch -- having to pay more money to retired teachers, police officers and others when its investments have soured -- has made rising pension costs a giant unexpected drain on the city budget. Only two years ago, the city estimated that it would need to contribute $817 million to the pension funds in the fiscal year that begins July 1. Now that estimate has risen to more than $2 billion. 
 That expense, nearly $1.2 billion higher than expected and still rising in the coming years, forms a significant part of the $4.76 billion deficit that the city is struggling to close by shutting centers for the elderly, postponing new school construction, scaling back library service and borrowing money to pay its day-to-day expenses. 
The higher pension costs are nearly as large a problem as the steep decline in city tax revenue resulting from the national recession and the attack on the World Trade Center. The predicament is worsened by the city's decision to shift much of its pension funds into stock investments throughout the last decade, a strategy that resulted in steep losses as the markets fell in the last two years.
Pension costs and losses, along with the growing payments the city must make each year to repay its debts, are the two main reasons that the city plans to spend slightly more money next year than this year while providing fewer services.
"It comes down to two things: we gave a lot of benefits, and we had bad investments," said Robert North, the chief actuary for the city's five pension funds. "Our benefits went up, our investment income went down, and the place you have to make up for it is in contributions. It is a classic pension funding problem."
Almost every major public pension fund in the nation has lost money in the recent stock market downturn, but New York City's funds lost more than many other systems did. The city adopted an unusually aggressive stock-market-based investment strategy, which served it well during the boom times of the late 1990's but left it vulnerable to losses when the market slowed down.
The city's pension funds still have more than enough money to pay benefits to retirees for years to come. And because the pension funds make investments for the long term, city officials say they are not concerned by a bad year or two. But to ensure the system's health and offset the costs of the increased benefit payments and the stock market losses, the city must contribute more money to its pension funds just when it can ill afford it.
The situation is serious enough to cause the Bloomberg administration to ask Albany for permission to spread out the costs of the increased benefits over a decade. The administration is also considering other ways to save, including creating a new class of worker, with less generous pension benefits.
Deputy Mayor Marc V. Shaw said the rising pension costs were "a significant part" of the budget problem. He said the administration hoped to win the support of labor unions to help the city address the problem. 
The pension fund problem is only partly a result of the recession and the downturn in the stock market. Decisions made by state and local officials have also played a critical role.
One of the chief factors driving up the city's pension costs is the cost-of-living adjustment that state officials enacted two years ago, over the objections of city officials. It gives automatic pension increases, tied to the rate of inflation, to retired civil servants every year. 
The automatic increases go not only to retired state employees, but also to retired city workers.
The Giuliani administration objected that the state was forcing the city to pay hundred of millions of dollars more to the pension funds each year without offering to help. 
The pension change will eventually cost New York City $586 million a year, once fully phased in. That is more than a better-known recent state legislative initiative that also hit the city in the pocketbook, the repeal of the commuter tax, which cost the city about $500 million in lost revenue a year.
To put the figure in perspective, the benefit improvement alone costs more than twice what the city spends each year on its parks.
As the city was being hit with the change, officials in Albany were reaping the political benefits, casting themselves as champions of the elderly and labor unions.
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, the trustee of the state's $112 billion Common Retirement Fund, was a forceful, early advocate of the law, and cites it often in his campaign for governor. Gov. George E. Pataki, who embraced the proposal after a task force he appointed approved of the idea, issued statements both when he signed the law and when the first larger checks were sent to state workers.
Now larger checks are going out to retired city workers as well. The increases, which are tied to the rate of inflation, are limited to no more than an additional $540 a year to pensioners. (A civilian who worked for the city for 25 to 30 years and retired in 1999 will receive an average retirement allowance of $29,272 a year.)
But with 246,000 retirees drawing pensions now and 339,000 future pensioners on the workforce, those annual supplements add up.
To help offset the bill, the Giuliani administration lobbied for, and won, the right to phase in the higher contributions that the city must make to its pension funds over the course of five years: from an extra $98 million in 2001 to $586 million by 2005. Now the Bloomberg administration wants permission from Albany to stretch out the time period to 10 years. Doing so would save the city $275 million next year.
Stretching out that period has costs of its own, though. Each dollar withheld from the pension funds today is a dollar that does not earn interest: $1 withheld today will cost the city $1.08 to replace next year. An analysis by Mr. McCall's office estimates that phasing the cost of the higher benefits in over 10 years, instead of 5, will cost the city an extra $115 million a year for 10 years starting in 2010.
"In effect, the city is borrowing from the pension funds," the comptroller's report said of the proposal.
But the extra cost-of-living benefits are only half the story.
Stock market losses alone shrunk the value of the city's five pension funds by more than $9 billion last year. Consequently, the city must contribute more money to the pension funds this year to offset the loss.
The problem is that even a single bad year in the market can force the city to pay much higher contributions to its pension funds to ensure that they will be able to meet their obligations. That is because the system assumes it will earn 8 percent on its investments each year, and any shortfall must be made up. 
This demand often comes at a difficult time. Whenever the stock market does badly, the city loses a big chunk of the tax revenue usually generated by Wall Street, and is least able to pay out more.
Last year, instead of earning the desired 8 percent, the city's pension funds lost 8.25 percent. That means the city must pay an extra $234 million in the next year and an estimated $2.8 billion over the coming five years if its funds fail to do better than the expected 8 percent return.
The effect on the bottom-line value of the city's pension funds is staggering. The major pension systems -- for teachers, police officers, firefighters and other employees -- had a total value of $105.6 billion on July 1, 2000.
Through the following year, city employees contributed $523 million through their paychecks, and city taxpayers added $1.3 billion. The accounts themselves earned $3.5 billion in interest income and dividends toward the fund. 
Those contributions were far outweighed by losses and other factors. Bad investments cost more than $9 billion, and $6.4 billion went to benefits payments. By June 30, 2001, the funds had dropped to $91.8 billion, a 13 percent decrease. Six months later, the funds had dropped by nearly an additional $10 billion. 
Pension fund managers across the nation debate how much they should invest in the stock market and how much they should invest in safer, but generally less profitable, alternatives like bonds or real estate.
Over the last 15 years the city has used an aggressive investment strategy. In 1986, only about 30 percent of the pension portfolio was invested in stocks. Now the figure is close to 70 percent.
That makes the city pension funds more aggressive, and stock-market driven, than the average large public pension fund, according to an annual survey by Pensions & Investments, a business publication that surveys large pension funds. Last year, the survey showed that the average large public pension fund had 56 percent invested in stocks. 
City officials dispute the judgment that its investments were more aggressive than other public pension funds, pointing to other comparisons that would include investments in real estate and private equity like venture capital funds. 
For most of the 1990's, the city's strategy paid off handsomely. From July 1995 to July 2000 the city's pension funds earned an average of 16.5 percent a year, more than many other pension funds that owned fewer stocks, and twice what the city had been counting on. 
But in 2000, the Giuliani administration essentially took advantage of that windfall by reaching an agreement with the unions that allowed the city to make deep cuts in its contributions to the pension systems in order to spend an extra $800 million over the next two fiscal years on city services. 
The city comptroller at the time objected to the plan, saying it "injects money into the city budget when it least needs it." 
In the last two years, though, the city's funds have done worse than average, according to two financial services companies that rate pension funds. And now with the surplus in the funds gone, the city's annual payments must increase significantly. 
"For many years they looked like heroes for having that high an exposure to stocks," said Nancy Webman, the editor of Pensions & Investments. "Right now they don't look so good. You compare them to other pension funds, they might look like bums. But I'm guessing that over the long term, they might look like heroes."
City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., who is the investment adviser to the city's five pension funds, said the decision to keep 70 percent of the funds invested in stocks and 30 percent in fixed income investments had been reached after a great deal of research and was not unusual among long-term investors.
"All serious long-term investors must accept the risk of lower short-term returns to achieve high long-term results," he said in a statement. "The pension system's trustees feel the present 70-30 asset mix strikes the proper balance between risk and reward. If the reverse asset mix followed by the funds several decades ago had been in place during the past boom market, much of the gains of that market would have been missed." 
There are other factors driving up the city's pension costs. The same week that the State Legislature agreed to award the automatic cost-of-living increases to pensioners, it also voted to eliminate pension contributions from employees after they have worked more than 10 years. Until then, the workers contributed 3 percent of their salaries toward their pensions. 
New contracts awarding raises to city workers have also driven up benefits, which are usually calculated against some measure of the worker's final salary. Those raises alone, if teachers and police officers get comparable raises, will require more than $300 million in higher pension contributions in the coming year.
All of this seemed affordable at the time the city was enjoying record budget surpluses and the pension investments in Wall Street were earning far more than dreamed, but the bills are still coming in.
"When times are good, you get pressure to give away more," said Charles Brecher, research director at the Citizens Budget Commission. "But then, when times are bad, you still have to pay more."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Rising Pension Costs Hurt City's Budget"The value of New York City's pension funds has lessened due to the recent decline in the stock market, where most of their money is invested. The State Legislature requires automatic pension increases for retired city workers to offset inflation. Now the city must allocate more money to the pension funds just when it can least afford to do so. Money in city pension funds on Dec.31, 2001: $81.6 billion GENERAL CITY EMPLOYEES: $35.5 billion (44%)BOARD OF EDUCATION: $1.6 (2)TEACHERS: $24.0 (19)FIRE: $5.4 (7)POLICE: $15.2 (29)Value one year earlier: $90.9 billion Where the money for the funds is invested1986FIXED INCOME: 68STOCKS: 31 2001FIXED INCOME: 32STOCKS: 68 Graph tracks percentage of annual return on the funds' investments (fiscal years) from 1990-2000. Graph tracks pricetag to city for automatic cost-of- living increases for pensioners (fiscal years) from 2002-2005. Graph tracks Mayors' projected pension budgets (fiscal years) from 2002-2004.MAYORGIULIANI* MAYORBLOOMBERG* Numbers may not add to totalsbecause of rounding. *Financial plans issued Jan. 2000 by Giuliani administration; Feb. 2002 by Bloomberg administration.(Sources: Office of Management and Budget; Office of the City Comptroller)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (93%); PENSION FUNDS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); CITIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); BONDS (72%); LIBRARIES (67%); AGING (67%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (67%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: THOMPSON, WILLIAM C JR (COMPTROLLER); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; NORTH, ROBERT; COOPER, MICHAEL; LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



53 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: TV Takes Up Some Weighty Matters of Economics 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Has globalization gone too far? Probably not, according to Daniel Yergin and Joseph A. Stanislaw, the authors of "Commanding Heights: The Battle for the World Economy," an economic history of the 20th century that will be broadcast as a three-part documentary on the Public Broadcasting System starting tonight.
 Though the program offers some dissenting views, its main message is clear: unfettered free markets offer the best path to prosperity. In case after case, the program demonstrates how countries as different as Chile and China became richer by opening up their economies. 
 Mr. Yergin, in an interview, argued that poverty cannot be reduced without open trade. "The power of trade is really underappreciated," he said. He said he was disappointed that "it's a less open world today than it was a year ago." 
But other experts on the international economy now contend that the time may be right for a taste of moderation.
"We spent too much time pressing countries to open up to international flows of capital," said Robert D. Hormats, the vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, "without helping them to nurture the institutions that were required to utilize that capital efficiently."
"The market does not work in isolation," he added. "It requires a framework of laws, and institutions and regulations."
"Commanding Heights," based on an earlier book by the same authors, also acknowledges the failure of the so-called "shock treatment" approach to economic reform in countries with weak laws and institutions, like Russia in the 1990's.
Still, Mr. Yergin remains more concerned about how countries should work with each other to prevent crises like the one that gripped Southeast Asia in the late 1990's and spread to Brazil and Russia. "Sovereign states need to shape the rules that govern how this economy works," he said. "It's an uneasy period of rule-making."
Rule-making alone may be a too simplistic approach to handling globalization, said Mickey Kantor, the former secretary of commerce who is now a partner at Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw in Washington.
"The idea that you can have unfettered globalization, a rules-based trading system with everyone undertaking the same obligations at the same time, is somewhat naive," he said. "There might have been times when we pushed too hard, too fast, with trade agreements and market openings. It just means that now, in some cases, we have to take half a step back."
During the last two decades of rapid trade liberalization, he added, the trend's more negative effects were not well known or understood.
Mr. Yergin disputed that globalization had contributed to the world's problems. "Globalization did not cause global poverty," he said, "but it did make us all much more aware of it." In any case, Mr. Yergin argues, developing countries should concentrate on economic growth before worrying about how to share its fruits. "You have to have something to distribute," he said. "If you don't have growth, you risk a downward spiral."
But Mr. Hormats warned that neglecting concerns about equity could lead to problems that could end up impeding economic gains anyway. "Growth is critically important because it benefits large numbers of people," he said, "but you have to at least demonstrate that others have opportunity. If they see growth as inimical to their interests, as opposed to something they can aspire to, then you get disruption."
"Commanding Heights" offers several examples of disruption, from coal miners in Britain striking against the privatization efforts of Margaret Thatcher, the former prime minister, to Argentines banging pots and pans to protest the floating of their currency on world markets this winter. But in the last year, free market policies have undergone some setbacks through the same process that first instituted them.
Last month, for example, the British government moved to transform Railtrack, the publicly traded company that maintained the infrastructure of the country's railway system, into a sort of public trust run by private managers. Last November, Congress voted to take over much of the country's airline security system.
Mr. Kantor says that some retrenchment is appropriate. "Clearly there are functions that don't lend themselves perfectly to free market solutions," he said. 
"Everyone would giggle and think it's quite funny if anyone suggested that you privatize the United States Army." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) TELEVISION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); MAYER BROWN LLP (81%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: STANISLAW, JOSEPH A; YERGIN, DANIEL; ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



54 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Strong in March as Recovery Continues 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 2 

 BODY:
Solid auto sales in March pointed to a continuing economic recovery, though domestic automakers have not been able to break the cycle of losing market share to foreign competitors. 
 General Motors, the healthiest of the Big Three automakers, was able to hold its share of the market steady in the first quarter, a victory compared with the struggles of the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group, a unit of DaimlerChrysler. Analysts are growing bullish on G.M. because its sales have also become more profitable. Retail sales have risen while rental car companies and corporate fleets have cut back sharply on less lucrative bulk purchases during the downturn. 
 Stronger sales than expected led G.M. to step up second-quarter production from what it had projected.
Overall industry sales in the United States fell 1.5 percent in March from a year earlier, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank, a result that was on the optimistic side of most analysts' expectations in a healing economy.
"It is becoming increasingly clear that a broad-based recovery is taking hold," said Jarlath Costello, Ford's senior domestic economist. "The recession in manufacturing is clearly over." 
David Healy, an analyst for Burnham Securities, said "sales are stronger than Detroit expected and dealers' inventories are probably too low, so we'll be looking at increases in production scheduled for the second quarter, which is good news for the economy."
At the same time, a punishing price war among the Big Three, including big rebate offers and interest-free financing deals, has not been enough to reverse consumers' preference for foreign brands, which has been years in the making. 
While the market share of domestic makers erodes, companies like Toyota, Honda, Nissan, Volkswagen and BMW continue to capture more of the market with fewer incentives. Domestic manufacturers have contended that much of the foreign automakers' advantage comes from favorable exchange rates that make it cheap to import vehicles. 
As if competition from Japan and Europe was not enough, Hyundai Motor confirmed today that it had selected Montgomery, Ala., as the site for its first American plant. 
Hyundai's sales increased almost 15 percent in March. The company has been upgrading its products and offering lengthy warranty deals to allay festering quality concerns. Sales at the company's Kia unit also rose 11 percent. 
"Their strong point so far has been small cars at ridiculously low prices with improving quality," Mr. Healy of Burnham Securities said.
"The Koreans have been eating Detroit's lunch in the small-car department, and that's going to continue with this plant."
George Pipas, Ford's manager of industry sales analysis, said small sport utility vehicles made by Hyundai (the Santa Fe) and Kia (the Sportage) had contributed to a 25 percent decline in sales of the Ford Escape. The redesign of the Honda CRV and a new small S.U.V. from the Saturn unit of G.M. have also crowded the market for that type of vehicle, he said. 
"I think it's something we'll have to evaluate on a month-by-month basis," Mr. Pipas said. "It is one of the more competitive segments."
Ford did recapture the mantle as the industry's single best-selling brand over Chevrolet.Ford's Jaguar and Land Rover brands showed strength last month.
Overall sales at Ford Motor fell 11.7 percent, compared with a 1.7 percent drop at G.M. and a 4 percent decline at Chrysler. Chrysler showed it might no longer be the laggard among the Big Three as it made progress in its revamping plan. The company's German management team announced a major turnaround plan early last year, while Ford laid out its own plan in January.
Sales at Toyota rose 4.1 percent, while sales at Honda, the fifth-largest seller in the United States market, rose 2.1 percent. Sales at Nissan rose 15.1 percent. Volkswagen sales rose 3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MARKET SHARE (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (55%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (51%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%) AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER GROUP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); HYUD (LSE) (72%); 005380 (KSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (72%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



55 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Andersen's Retired Partners Fear Benefits May Slip Away 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
Billy M. Mann is worried about the future. At 80 years old, Mr. Mann, a retired Arthur Andersen partner, sees trouble ahead for his pension of $42,000 a year and other benefits owed to him from 36 years at Andersen.
 He says he is not one for poor-mouthing, and he admits that "we're not in danger of going hungry or anything like that." But if Arthur Andersen files for bankruptcy or takes other actions that would cut off those benefits, Mr. Mann said, he and his wife, Jean, will have to make some changes. 
 They may have to sell their luxury condominium in downtown Austin and move to a more economical home, he said, or cut back on their financial support of Mrs. Mann's 97-year-old mother, who lives in an expensive nursing home. "We don't know if we could continue to keep her there or not," he said. 
When Enron imploded, thousands of its employees saw their retirement benefits dwindle or disappear. The public anger over the plight of Enron employees who had loaded their 401(k) retirement accounts with the company's stock at the urging of top executives fueled much of the anger against Enron's leaders and, by extension, Enron's advisers at Andersen, which audited the company's books.
But the problems of Andersen retirees like Mr. Mann show that retirement worries are not unique to Enron. The Andersen workers have been generally well paid, and their plight has not struck the same nerve as the Enron employees' troubles.
Still, with Andersen's future shaky, its workers now fret that their pensions are at risk, and its retired partners have filed suit against the company, a limited liability partnership, to try to protect their benefits, a move whose outcome is anything but certain. "Just because the money is in a pension plan doesn't mean that the money is safe," said Steven O. Weise, a lawyer in Los Angeles who is an expert in the structure of limited liability partnerships.
Concerns will probably grow about unprotected pension plans, said Nevin Adams, executive editor of PlanSponsor.com, an online resource for pension and retirement issues. When companies without protected plans become bankrupt, he said, employees and retirees will find that their pension plans "are not worth the paper they're printed on and are as worthless as their stock options."
Because Andersen is a partnership, its partner-owners do not have a typical pension with the backstop of the Pension Benefits Guaranty Corporation, which makes payments when companies go bankrupt. Nor do they have a 401(k) plan, sponsored by employers. Instead, working partners are encouraged to invest for their own retirements, partly through Keogh accounts. But the firm also provides retired partners with a stipend, now $3,500 a month, as a safety net should their own investments go awry. 
The retirees' lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Chicago, demands that the courts not allow Andersen to do anything that would endanger those benefits. Referring to discussions within Andersen about possibly releasing its partners from agreements not to work for competitors if they leave, the suit says such a step "will effectively liquidate all the assets of the company and will eliminate the company's current revenue." That revenue, which the suit says is at risk, pays for the pensions and some other benefits. There are 675 retired Andersen partners in the United States.
The other 5,100 retirees of the firm who were not partners have a bit more financial backing for their retirement benefits, though a collapse of Andersen could send everyone to court to try to collect what they have been promised from every conceivable source. The pension plan for employees is separate from that of the partners; it is, in fact, backed by private insurance.
The retired partners are asking the courts to decide that their benefits are covered by the same laws as standard pension plans and to force the company to create an independent fund to pay their benefits. If a separate fund is not created and the company files for bankruptcy protection from creditors, the retirees will end up in line with other creditors for payment -- and behind the secured creditors.
"What we're saying is you have obligations to maintain the partnership agreement in the U.S.," said Duane R. Kullberg, the lead plaintiff in the class-action case; he was a chief executive of Andersen in the 1980's. "We're owed it." The retirees can ill afford to lose the money, Mr. Kullberg said. 
For Andersen partners who are still working, the monthly pension has grown in importance as well, though their top priority is the survival of the firm. Their livelihood is now in jeopardy, with clients fleeing and a criminal charge pending, and they may never get out of the firm the substantial amount of capital they have invested in it -- often with borrowed money.
The limited liability partnership is a business structure that has been around less than a decade. It was created to protect a partner's personal assets from being used to satisfy legal claims against the partnership.
Andersen's partners earn hundreds of thousands of dollars a year and place a part of those earnings as a required investment in the firm. When the partners leave the company, they get money several ways. They receive what they invested directly in the firm over the years -- a sum that varies with seniority and salary.
Mr. Kullberg, for example, said his capital repayment had been "probably a half-million bucks." The partners get back exactly what they put in, and they owe no additional taxes on the payout, generally taken as a lump sum.
They also receive their share of the difference between the year-to-year cash taken in by the firm and the money due to the firm on a longer-term accrual basis. The retirees generally stretch those payments out over several years because they do owe taxes on them. The company also contributes to the retirees' health insurance and life insurance coverage.
The partners earn a pension, but at $3,500 a month, it is fairly small among professional partnerships. Other consulting partnerships, like PricewaterhouseCoopers, pay bigger pensions tied to income level, but Andersen's partners opted for a one-size-fits-all pension so current partners would not grow resentful over having to pay big amounts for retirees, Mr. Kullberg said.
Instead, Andersen's management designed a pension that would prevent poverty, said Mr. Mann, calling the benefit a "patch-the-pants allowance."
New partners were advised to build their own investment plans and retirement accounts.
The message was, " 'You're being paid well -- provide for your own retirement,' " recalled Arthur Wyatt, an Andersen retiree who is an accounting professor at the University of Illinois.
The partners were encouraged to invest in Keogh plans, the retirement accounts for unincorporated businesses; such plans are outside the company's control. An independent trustee, Northern Trust, protects them from claims against Andersen. Partners could also roll those savings into individual retirement accounts.
Along with monthly pensions from the firm, the employees who are not partners can invest in a company-sponsored 401(k) retirement plan, also held by Northern Trust. All retirees of the firm, whether partners or not, qualify for Social Security benefits.
The retired partners may have viewed their monthly pension payment much like their Social Security benefits, as a sure thing. Why didn't Andersen set up a protected fund for its partners' pensions in the past? One person who has closely followed the lawsuit noted that the firm's consultants would probably have advised it to build a separate pension and benefits funds, but "the cobbler's children go barefoot." The company seemed stable, and the income was steady.
"What undoubtedly happened was everybody just assumed they had nothing to worry about," said Mr. Weise, the lawyer in Los Angeles. Before Andersen's problems became apparent, if someone had marched in and asked for special protections for the pension funds, he said, "people would have thought you were nuts."
Now Andersen's retirees are looking into a financially uncertain future -- but the potential loss of money is only part of what troubles them, Mr. Mann said. He recalled a recent conversation with another retired partner.
"I said, 'You know, you hate like the devil to see the financial impact that this might have on everybody,' " Mr. Mann recalled. " 'But what really hurts is to see a great company like Arthur Andersen being pilloried.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Duane R. Kullberg, a former chief executive of Arthur Andersen, with his wife, Susan, in Scottsdale, Ariz. He is lead plaintiff in a suit over retired partners' benefits. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US 401K PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); GUARANTY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); ARIZONA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



56 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: At $500 an Hour, Lobbyist's Influence Rises With G.O.P. 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
In the last six months of 2001, the Coushatta Indians, a tribe with 800 members and a large casino in southwest Louisiana, paid $1.76 million to the law firm of Jack Abramoff, a Republican lobbyist here.
 Last month, the Bush administration handed the tribe a big victory by blocking construction of a casino by a rival tribe that would have drained off much of the Coushattas' business. 
 William Worfel, vice chairman of the Coushattas, views the administration's decision as a direct benefit of the eye-popping lobbying fees his tribe paid Mr. Abramoff, more money than many giant corporations like AOL Time Warner and American Airlines paid lobbyists in the same period. 
"I call Jack Abramoff, and I get results," Mr. Worfel said. "You get everything you pay for." 
In the seven years since Republicans gained control of the House of Representatives, Mr. Abramoff, 43, has used his close ties to Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip, and other conservatives in the House to become one of the most influential -- and, at $500 an hour, best compensated -- lobbyists in Washington.
He is also an important Republican fund-raiser.
Mr. Abramoff's recent success and importance in Republican circles is a reminder that even as much of official Washington has been focused on the war in Afghanistan, efforts to beef up national security after Sept. 11 and the crisis in the Middle East, the business of lobbying has been humming along quite nicely, more out of the spotlight than usual but more profitable than ever for those with the right connections.
Unlike many lobbyists who take almost any client who is willing to pay their fee, Mr. Abramoff says he represents only those who stand for conservative principles. They include three Indian tribes with big casinos and, until recently, the Northern Mariana Islands.
"All of my political work," he said, "is driven by philosophical interests, not by a desire to gain wealth." 
Mr. Abramoff argues that Indian reservations and the island territory, which is exempt from United States labor laws, are "just what conservatives have always wanted, which is enterprise zones -- tax-free, regulation-free zones where with the right motivation, great industry could take place and spill out into the general communities."
His success in making this case to Republicans in the House has paid off handsomely.
At the beginning of last year, Mr. Abramoff left Preston Gates Ellis & Rouvelas Meeds, the law firm where he had worked since he became a lobbyist in 1995, and joined the Washington office of Greenberg Traurig, a firm based in Miami. 
Mostly as a consequence, Greenberg Traurig, which received only $1.7 million in lobbying fees during the first half of 2000, had $8.7 million in the first half of 2001, fifth most of any firm in Washington, according to rankings by National Journal. Preston Gates, which had been ranked fifth, saw its lobbying fees cut in half and fell out of the magazine's top 10.
As is often true of the work of lobbyists, it is hard to tell how much influence Mr. Abramoff really has over government decisions, and his recent victory for the Coushattas is a case in point.
Indian reservations are not covered by state laws regulating gambling. The Bureau of Indian Affairs in the Interior Department has the final say on whether casinos can be built on reservations, and the decisions have not always been free from political influence. 
Mr. Abramoff did not even directly approach the Interior Department himself, but instead organized a group of lawmakers and other Indian tribes with gambling interests to express to the department their opposition to the new casino. 
For lobbyists, perception of influence can often be as valuable as actual influence. 
Mr. Worfel, the vice chairman of the Coushattas, said he was delighted with Mr. Abramoff's representation and happy to pay his firm's retainer of nearly $300,000 a month.
Mr. Abramoff's fee of $500 an hour is matched by few if any other lobbyists in Washington. 
Mr. Abramoff's background and personality hardly fit the mold of the typical Washington lobbyist. 
He is an Orthodox Jew who says that even more than politics, his religion is a central element of his life. He is a teetotaler with a soft voice and a gentle manner who once held a high school weight-lifting record in California. He spent several years in Hollywood producing movies -- "Red Scorpion," an anticommunist thriller, was the most successful -- before becoming a lobbyist. 
Most unusual, he is, by his own description, a committed ideologue.
In the early 1980's, Mr. Abramoff was chairman of the College Republican National Committee, where he made important contacts. Among those on his staff were Grover Norquist, now a leading conservative strategist here and president of Americans for Tax Reform, and Ralph Reed, the former director of the Christian Coalition, who is a prominent Republican political consultant.
Mr. Abramoff tries hard to persuade his fellow Washington lobbyists to give more generously to the Republican Party, its candidates and conservative organizations. He expects to raise as much as $5 million this year, he said, and plans to donate as much as $250,000 personally.
Mr. Abramoff's rising influence is also illustrative of another trend in lobbying: success can be built on a strong relationship between a lobbyist and a single, powerful lawmaker. His interest in raising money for Republicans and conservative causes is the foundation of Mr. Abramoff's relationship with Mr. DeLay, who is determined to meld the lobbyists on K Street here into the Republican Party's political, legislative and fund-raising operations.
Mr. Abramoff described the bond this way: "We are the same politically and philosophically. Tom's goal is specific -- to keep Republicans in power and advance the conservative movement. I have Tom's goal precisely."
Mr. Norquist, who is friendly with both men, said of Mr. Abramoff, "He walks in to see DeLay and DeLay knows that he is representing clients whose views are in sync with DeLay's views."
It is difficult to gauge the importance of this relationship to Mr. Abramoff's success. Some of his clients said in interviews that Mr. Abramoff did not mention the relationship when he was seeking their business and that it was not the reason they retained him.
"Everybody is important in Congress, not just DeLay," said Philip Martin, chief of the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians. The tribe, which runs a large casino and resort, was one of Mr. Abramoff's first clients and is still one of the most lucrative.
The Mississippi Choctaws paid Greenberg Traurig more than $1 million in the last half of 2001. "Definitely we get our money's worth, or we wouldn't be doing it," Mr. Martin said.
Mr. DeLay did help put Mr. Abramoff on the lobbying map, assisting his clients on two sensitive matters in 1995, the first year Mr. DeLay was whip and Mr. Abramoff's first year as a lobbyist. But it is not clear that the whip was any more active on these measures than he was on other bills before the House that year.
One of Mr. Abramoff's issues was his opposition to a federal tax on Indian gambling revenues. The tax was included in the nonbinding budget resolution the House approved.
But on behalf of the Mississippi Choctaws, Mr. Abramoff said he went to Mr. DeLay and other Republican leaders and explained, "Regardless of what you feel about gaming, what you are creating here is a tax on these people, and conservatives should never be in favor of new taxes."
The proposed tax was killed, Mr. Abramoff said, "once they discerned a conservative principle." 
The other big issue for Mr. Abramoff in 1995 that promoted his career was a bill passed by the Senate that would have stripped the Northern Mariana Islands of their exemption from the United States minimum wage and immigration laws.
The main industry in the Marianas is textiles. Inexpensive clothes are made there, mostly by immigrant Chinese women who work for low wages in substandard conditions, and the garments are shipped duty-free to the United States with a "Made in the U.S.A." label.
With Mr. DeLay's help, Mr. Abramoff managed to get the legislation defeated in the House, using the argument that the Marianas represented low taxes and free enterprise and should be left alone.
Representative George Miller, a California Democrat who sponsored the legislation in the House, is still furious about Mr. Abramoff's action. In a recent interview, Mr. Miller said, "He spent a lot of time, effort and money to protect a system that was a growth industry for sex shops, prostitution, abuse of women, slavery, illegal immigration, worker exploitation and narcotics, and he did it all in the name of freedom."
Asked about this, Mr. Abramoff replied: "Congressman Miller has an agenda, and he wants the facts to fit his thesis. No lobbyist could have convinced Congress to support the system he describes."
After the bill was defeated, Mr. Abramoff took 150 lawmakers and staff members to the Northern Marianas, 200 miles north of Guam, and Mr. DeLay came back enthralled.
Unfortunately for Mr. Abramoff, turning the islands' economy into an ideological cause has come back to haunt him. In last November's election for governor, he supported the candidate of the garment industry, Benigno Fitial, against the Republican candidate, Juan Babauta. Mr. Babauta won and soon after he took office in January, he canceled the government's $100,000 per month contract with Mr. Abramoff.
"The U.S. territories have traditionally been handled in Washington in a bipartisan manner," an associate of the new governor said. "Abramoff marked an end to that approach. So in a change of government, it was only natural that he be dropped."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Abramoff, one of Washington's highest-paid lobbyists. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A17) Chart: "IN BRIEF: A Lobbyist's Clientele"Some of the main clients of Jack Abramoff, a Washington lobbyist, in the last six months of 2001, and the fees each paid to his law firm, Greenberg Traurig: Chitimacha Tribe of Louisiana: $60,000Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana IslandsUnited States territory exempt from wage and immigration laws: $600,000Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana: $1,760,000Hopi Tribe: $60,000Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians: $1,040,000Primedia Inc.Corporate parent of Channel One: $440,000Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe: $150,000Saipan Garment Manufacturers AssociationTextile trade association in Northern Mariana Islands: $160,000Voor Huisen Project ManagementSecondary mortgage project in Russia: $300,000(Source: Senate Office of Public Records)(pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (92%); GAMING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); APPAREL MFG (59%); RANKINGS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); GAMBLING; CASINOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN 

COMPANY: GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (85%); K&L GATES LLP (84%); AOL INC (71%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ;COUSHATTA INDIANS; CONGRESS (US) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: ABRAMOFF, JACK; DELAY, TOM (REPR); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%) LOUISIANA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



57 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Back Scientist From India To Replace Global Warming Expert 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
After meeting yesterday with industry lobbyists unhappy about an international science panel assessing climate change, the State Department has decided to back an engineer from India to become the panel's new chairman.
 The current chairman, Dr. 
Robert T. Watson, whose term is expiring, is an atmospheric chemist who has long pressed for aggressive action to cut emissions of heat-trapping gases linked to global warming and released mainly by burning coal and oil. 
 Dr. Watson, who is also chief scientist at the World Bank, was nominated in 1996 by the Clinton administration.
His views on climate contrast sharply with those of President Bush, who recently proposed slowing, but not reversing, the growth of such emissions until there was more evidence of potential dangers.
The Indian engineer, Dr. Rajendra K. Pachauri, an economist as well as an engineer, is currently one of five vice chairmen of the group, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 
Under the auspices of the United Nations, the panel conducts periodic reviews of the causes and consequences of rising temperatures.
Auto manufacturers and oil companies have long seen Dr. Watson as a foe, and their lobbyists have said that Dr. Pachauri, who has worked with industry in the past, was clearly preferable.
Some panel scientists said Mr. Bush might end up regretting the choice, noting that Dr. Pachauri has repeatedly criticized the president for not acting more aggressively to cut emissions from the United States, which is the largest source of heat-trapping gases.
State Department officials said the decision was seen as a way to build American relations with India, which had been campaigning strongly for Dr. Pachauri. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); AUTOMAKERS (52%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; AIR POLLUTION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) STATE DEPARTMENT; INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) WATSON, ROBERT T (DR); PACHAURI, RAJENDRA K (DR); REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



58 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: High-Cost Lenders Dominate In Black Areas, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
A study of nearly 200,000 home loan applications in New York City has found that conventional banks are neglecting black neighborhoods, creating a void filled by high-cost and abusive lenders.
 The study was conducted by the office of Senator Charles E. Schumer. It concluded that the situation in black neighborhoods had not improved in the two years since Mr. Schumer commissioned a similar study into banks' lending practices. 
 In a recent interview, he said that the results suggested that racial discrimination continues to be a factor in the way banks issue loans. But he also cited a reluctance on the part of black residents to apply for conventional mortgages, partly because many expect to be rejected.
"After years of mistrust, years of discrimination, many black homeowners simply do not want to risk the humiliation of being turned down for a loan by the bank," Mr. Schumer said. "And as a result, so many black homeowners who are more than qualified to receive low-interest loans from conventional lenders don't even apply."
The situation has created a major opportunity for so-called subprime lenders, who charge high interest rates and hefty fees to borrowers who, for whatever reason, have limited access to credit from conventional lenders.
The analysis found that in 2000, subprime lenders dominated the market in black neighborhoods, providing 43 percent of the home loans there, compared with only 9 percent of the loans in white neighborhoods.
Critics have long described many subprime lenders as predatory, accusing them of using deceptive practices and imposing exorbitant costs that force countless victims into bankruptcy and foreclosure.
Indeed, the difference between a conventional and a nonconventional loan can be staggering, in financial terms. For a 30-year fixed mortgage of $150,000, the difference in total costs between a 7 percent prime rate from a conventional lender and a subprime rate of 9 percent from a nonconventional lender is $75,232.
The study also found racial disparity in the way loan applications are handled: banks denied loan applications from blacks at nearly twice the rate for whites, even when they had similar incomes. Over all, the rejection rates were 28 percent for blacks and 15 percent for whites.
Even blacks with incomes above $67,440 were rejected more often than whites with incomes under $45,000, with 26 percent of the blacks turned down compared with 19 percent of the whites. 
The study also found differences in the lending patterns of banks in comparisons that paired six mostly white neighborhoods with six mostly black neighborhoods with similar incomes in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens.
In East Flatbush, a black neighborhood in Brooklyn with an average income of $60,010, banks rejected 33 percent of loan applications, and subprime lenders provided 46 percent of the loans. But in a white Brooklyn neighborhood, Sheepshead Bay, with an average income of $58,230, banks denied only 12 percent of the applications, and subprime lenders handled only 14 percent of the loans.
In Laurelton, Queens, a black neighborhood with an average income of $63,527, banks rejected 30 percent of loan applications, and subprime lenders provided 36 percent of the loans. But in a comparable white neighborhood in Queens, Bayside, with an average income of $57,212, banks denied only 12 percent of the applications, and subprime lenders handled only 8 percent of the loans.
Mr. Schumer said part of the solution was to bring banks into black communities and match them up with prospective home buyers. To that end, he is seeking a citywide expansion of a pilot program he introduced last year in which banks work with black churches to identify prospective homebuyers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); PRIME RATES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%) HOUSING; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; MORTGAGES 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (90%) HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



59 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
A Convention Center Race May Spawn Losers

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, March 27 

 BODY:
The Automobile Show was in full swing this week in a freshly completed section of the new $354 million convention center on the banks of the Allegheny River as steelworkers continued erecting the building's sweeping, cantilevered roof, which echoes the nearby suspension bridges known as the Three Sisters.
 With the center, full of skylights, glass walls and 330,000 square feet of exhibition space, Pittsburgh has plunged boldly into a hotly contested space race in which dozens of cities around the country are building new convention centers or enlarging the ones they have. Pittsburgh, like its rivals, has put out a siren call for teachers' conventions, biomedical meetings, industrial trade shows and religious gatherings. 
 "We're talking about protecting the convention market we had and supporting the economic development of the region," said Joseph R. McGrath, president of the Greater Pittsburgh Convention and Visitors Bureau. "We're also hoping to create the impression of Pittsburgh as a player on the national scene." 
But though Mr. McGrath and counterparts in other cities are armed with studies projecting a boom in travelers, hotel occupancy, restaurant spending and prestige, a number of economists say they are fighting for a larger share of what is essentially a shrinking industry.
The trade show and convention industry enjoyed double-digit growth in attendance in the late 1980's and early 90's, analysts say, but that has slowed considerably since 1997. In fact, attendance nationally was down last year, even before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
"To a significant degree, it's folly," said Robert A. Baade, a professor of economics at Lake Forest College who has analyzed the economic impact of convention centers, stadiums and casinos. "They're ignoring what other cities are doing, and they're doing it at their own peril. They could be left with a lot of white elephants."
Even Robert V. Canton, director of the convention consulting business at PricewaterhouseCoopers, which has done studies advocating construction of larger meeting halls, now agrees that a problem of overbuilding looms in the convention and trade show business. But he and others argue that cities must build or expand to keep up with the competition and maintain their market share.
So, Boston is putting up the steel framework for a center with 516,000 square feet of exhibition space, while Washington is going a step further with a new 725,000-square-foot operation. Hartford is also building a new center, and Buffalo is planning one. Even the industry's behemoth, McCormick Place in Chicago, is planning yet another big expansion beyond its 2.56 million square feet. By contrast, the Javits Convention Center in New York has 814,400 square feet of meeting and exhibition space.
All in all, Tradeshow Week, the bible of the industry, estimates that over the next five years the amount of convention space will jump 25 percent, as 96 new or expanded centers open a combined 16.8 million square feet of new exhibit space at a cost of about $12 billion.
People in the industry are debating which cities are most likely to be hurt -- destinations like Chicago, Las Vegas, New York and Orlando, Fla., or smaller cities with smaller halls. "I think the second-tier cities are going to feel the pinch much more than first-tier destinations," Mr. Canton said.
The competition is fierce. Pittsburgh has already hijacked three conventions from Cleveland. In response, Cleveland's Convention and Visitors Bureau issued a news release bemoaning the losses and highlighting its effort to replace the city's 80-year-old convention center.
The competition does not end with who has the biggest or best space. Heywood Sanders, a professor at the University of Texas, found that Los Angeles discounted rates at its convention center for the last five years to try to lure shows and conventions. The operator of the new center in Charlotte, N.C., has also been offering incentives. "It's a symptom of a zero-sum market," Mr. Sanders said. "They think they're competing by adding space, but they're only starting the process."
The problem is worsened by the slowdown in attendance growth and a decline in the size of trade shows. A 1997 study projected that trade show attendance would hit 140 million by 2000. But Tradeshow Week estimates that although attendance reached 140 million in 1999, it fell to 126 million in 2000. Last year, the average attendance at trade shows fell further, by 7.4 percent, the magazine reported, partly because of the recession, a slump in the technology sector and the terrorist attacks.
"In the 1990's, the trade show industry grew faster than the gross national product," said Michael Hughes, director of research for Tradeshow Week. "But about two years ago the rate of growth slowed and the industry matured. It'll now track the ups and downs of the economy more than in the past."
Many convention centers are run as loss leaders, justified by projected increases in spending at hotels, restaurants and shops. Convention center operators in Boston, Washington and Pittsburgh are finding that they must also subsidize convention hotels, raising more questions about the wisdom of bothering to compete in what is almost certainly a money-losing race, Mr. Sanders added.
Still, Stephen G. Leeper, executive director of the Sports and Exhibition Authority in Pittsburgh, and the Convention and Visitors Bureau say they believe that Pittsburgh can overcome the obstacles and win a bigger share of the convention market.
The building, known as the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, at the edge of the downtown district, is being built with a combination of state grants and hotel and other tax revenue. The authority hired an architect with a national reputation, Rafael Vinoly of New York, to design a distinctive structure, not your typical black box. The glass walls, skylights and rooftop garden give it a bright and airy feeling, while the sloped roof takes advantage of the wind off the Allegheny River to cool and ventilate the building.
The first phase opened in February with the Recreational Vehicle Show, the Home and Garden Show and the Automobile Show, all of which have drawn thousands of visitors from the surrounding area. But the Convention and Visitors Bureau is after bigger game: conventions, rather than public or consumer shows, that bring out-of-towners who fly in and spend far more money than the locals do on hotel rooms, dining, shopping and entertainment.
So far, the bureau has booked 57 conventions through 2008, although only 17 of them are too large to have fit into the old convention center. The conventions range from the Religious Conference Management Association, with 1,300 participants in 2004, to the rubber division of the American Chemical Society, which is expected to draw 12,000 in 2005.
"It's kind of like musical chairs," said Mr. McGrath, the president of the Convention and Visitors Bureau. "When the music stops, someone doesn't have a chair. I believe we will be among the winners."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of Pittsburgh's new convention center. Dozens of other cities are building anew, too, or enlarging. (Rafael Vinoly Architects) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); TOURISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (66%); MARKET SHARE (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (57%) CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JOSEPH W MCGRATH (72%) BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CLEVELAND (OHIO); PITTSBURGH (PA)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



60 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: The Postpartisan Governor; 
Defying a Democratic Tide, Pataki Seeks a Third Term

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
When George E. Pataki first ran for governor of New York, as a junior Republican state senator taking on Mario M. Cuomo in 1994, he campaigned on a platform that was crisp and unmistakably conservative. Mr. Pataki pledged to reimpose the death penalty. He told voters he would slash spending, cut taxes and reduce the welfare rolls. And he promised to shrink a government that, he said, had bloated under 20 years of Democratic rule. 
 But the candidate who is now seeking a third term as governor is in many ways different from that little-known state senator from Peekskill who confounded Mr. Cuomo eight years ago. Nowhere was that more obvious than at his Manhattan campaign headquarters the other day, where he accepted the endorsement of a group of black ministers, most of them Democrats. 
 For 15 minutes, Mr. Pataki spoke passionately about how the state had enacted prescription drug subsidies for elderly New Yorkers. He urged a rollback of the Rockefeller drug laws that, he said to murmurs of approval, were too tough on first-time drug users. He spoke fervently about his efforts to expand health care coverage for the poor, holding it up as one of his proudest accomplishments. 
"Under our children's health-plus program, every child in New York State today is entitled to health care," Mr. Pataki said, evincing the kind of enthusiasm he typically displays when talking about cutting government bureaucracy. "We are proud that more than 540,000 low-income children have been enrolled since we've expanded this program. And we know that working families need to have insurance, the adults as well."
The ministers shouted, "Amen." Mr. Pataki beamed for the cameras.
To the pleasure of Republicans and the frustration of Democrats, with seven months to go until Election Day, Mr. Pataki finds himself in a remarkably strong position as he campaigns for a third term in Albany: a Republican who is defying the tide of an increasingly Democratic state. Justifiably or not, Mr. Pataki has established enough of an air of inevitability to his re-election that nearly 2,000 New York City sanitation workers turned out in downtown Manhattan on Monday afternoon to chant, "Four more years," and endorse their first Republican for governor since Nelson Rockefeller.
Mr. Pataki says his political strength today is testimony to his success as governor, mentioning his management of the state's budget, the decline in the crime rate while he was in Albany and the expansion of health care programs.
"People have heard a great deal of the world's best politicians come here and explain their vision," he said, in a sarcastic reference to the Democrat he defeated. "They've also seen what we've done over the course of the past seven years." 
But Mr. Pataki's formidable position these days is, in truth, as much a reflection of what even Democrats say is his adroit and largely successful effort to position himself in a state whose electoral dynamics have shifted notably, and increasingly to his disadvantage, in the last eight years. 
From what he says, to how he says it, to whom he has struck alliances with, Mr. Pataki has moved to blur his own party identification, casting the coming contest for governor as anything but the referendum between the Republican and Democratic views of government that served Democrats well in the 1998 and 2000 Senate races. A New York voter these days could be forgiven for forgetting that Mr. Pataki is running as the candidate of the Republican and Conservative parties.
"You have to give the governor credit," said Howard Wolfson, the executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, who was communications director for Hillary Rodham Clinton when she won her Senate seat in 1998. "He has gone from being a death-penalty-loving tax cutter to an ally of hospital workers and gun control advocates. I have a lot of admiration for his political instincts. I can't think of anything he could have done to better position himself for this race."
In many ways, Mr. Pataki's strategy this year is an extension of the approach taken by Michael R. Bloomberg, also a Republican, to win election as mayor of New York City, in the view of Richard Schrader, who managed Mark Green's unsuccessful campaign for mayor last year. The elections for mayor and governor, taken together, suggest the extent to which New York has entered a postpartisan phase, at least in terms of local elections, in which party identification does not mean as much as it once did.
This change in ideological emphasis is reflected in the geographical focus of Mr. Pataki's campaign. There are weeks when he has more campaign appearances in Democratic New York City than do his two Democratic opponents combined.
Those two Democrats, H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller, and Andrew M. Cuomo, the former federal housing secretary, say Mr. Pataki has been forced to turn because the poor condition of the upstate economy has endangered his standing with Republican voters there. Whether or not that is the case, Mr. Pataki's standing in New York City, which is even more Democratic than the state as a whole, has only been strengthened because of his own visibility in the weeks after the attack on the World Trade Center. 
These days, Mr. Pataki has begun doing something that would have seemed inconceivable a few months ago: explicitly invoking the terrorist attack as he campaigns for his re-election.
"Let met tell you, there are quiet unsung heroes of Sept. 11 and afterward as well," Mr. Pataki said to the New York City sanitation workers at a raucous rally at the union hall Monday. "I was down there, in the evening of Sept. 11, when dust and debris covered Lower Manhattan from one river to the other. And it wasn't just the police officers and the firefighters and the emergency service workers. You were out there, too. You were the ones who cleared the streets so emergency workers could get to ground zero."
"It was the ordinary working men and women from this city and state who stood up to the most evil terror our state has ever faced, and looked it down, and said we're not going to let you frighten us," the governor said in embracing the union's endorsements.
Democrats said Mr. Pataki's attempt to reposition himself would ultimately undercut him with the electorate, raising questions about his own core beliefs. But Mr. Pataki asserted that he had not changed a single view since he rode in from right field in 1994. "The philosophy is essentially the same," he said, sprawled on a couch in his office in Midtown Manhattan.
"I believe in limited government, low taxes, a tough approach to crime," he said. "But I also believe in an activist government. I'm not one of those laissez-faire types."
"I believe there are fundamental differences in philosophy between those who believe in big government, and government solutions, and those who believe in empowering individuals," he said. "It's the difference between creating a welfare system and making the welfare system more generous."
Whether or not Mr. Pataki has drifted from his ideological moorings, he has certainly changed the emphases of his candidacy. As he moves around New York, he is more apt to talk about expanding health care coverage for the poor, or rolling back the Rockefeller drug laws, or gun control measures, than about cutting government programs or the welfare rolls.
His appearance with the black ministers was just one of many events that his advisers have set up with Democrats for this year -- most famously, with Dennis Rivera, the head of the state health care workers' union and a symbol of liberal politics in New York -- intended to make it easier for a Democrat to pull the lever for a Republican governor. (Mr. Pataki is also seeking the Independence Party line.)
In the course of a 45-minute interview about his candidacy, the words "Republican" and "Democrat" barely crossed the governor's lips. As the interview was drawing to a close, Mr. Pataki went out of his way to raise the issue of abortion, volunteering, "I disagree with many in my party" in supporting abortion rights.
"They would say government should make the decision about whether or not a woman can have an abortion," Mr. Pataki said. "How is that consistent with the belief in the individual and limited government?" 
"There are those who would say, 'Ha-ha! This is a liberal Democratic position coming from someone who is a Republican governor.' I would say it is consistent with the philosophy I believe in of empowering the individual and limited government. Maybe that creates a blur, because I'm pro-choice in what would traditionally be viewed in partisan terms."
For all that, it remains early in the race, and Mr. Pataki clearly has some problems in some quarters. Most notably, Mr. Pataki's position upstate would seem to have slipped, in no small part because the economy there has suffered so much distress while the rest of the state and the nation have prospered. In the last two statewide elections, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, both Democrats, were elected to the Senate after focusing much time upstate, and Mr. McCall and Mr. Cuomo have taken a lesson from those campaigns.
In fact, Mr. Pataki declined to respond when asked if he agreed with the declaration by the Republican senatorial candidate in 2000, Rick A. Lazio, that the upstate economy had "turned a corner," an assertion Mrs. Clinton turned against Mr. Lazio to devastating effect in the final weeks of that campaign. 
"I'll leave it to others," Mr. Pataki said after a pause. "But I know that our policies have helped to turn around from an economic climate standpoint where we were in 1994. But we still have to fight for every single job. But I'll leave the macroanalysis to the macroanalyzers. I know that in every single community, we have to fight for every single job. And that is what we're doing."
Mr. Pataki left little doubt about just how irritated he was that anyone would suggest that he of all governors would sacrifice his core beliefs just for the sake of re-election. At one point in the interview, he removed both shoes and chucked them halfway across his expansive office as he complained about a newspaper article that portrayed a $1.8 billion health care bill he rushed through the Legislature, which included money for raises for Mr. Rivera's union members, as a reward for Mr. Rivera's union's endorsing the governor. The bill, Mr. Pataki asserted, was part of his effort to improve health care in New York.
That said, even Michael Long, the chairman of the state's Conservative Party and one of Mr. Pataki's most prominent supporters, called the deal with Mr. Rivera "wrong" and "costly to the taxpayers," though he added that Mr. Pataki was doing what he had to do to win an election in a state like New York.
"Even though I disagree with some of the moves he's made, he's positioned himself well, and probably took a little steam out of his Democratic opponents," Mr. Long said. "I think it was deliberate strategy on his part, and it has worked. It has placed him in a very good position. Like I said, I don't agree with all of his strategy."
More than a few Democrats expressed admiration for Mr. Pataki's success at leaving his opponents so little space on the field. "Pataki is the George McGovern of Republicans," said Paul J. Feiner, a Democratic town supervisor from Greenburgh, in central Westchester. "If Pataki were a Democrat, he would appeal to liberal Democrats."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Sept. 20, Governor Pataki and Gov. Sila Calderon of Puerto Rico toured the trade center attack site. (Pool photo by Jose Rosario)(pg. B6); Gov. George E. Pataki, a two-term Republican, finds himself in a remarkably strong position as he campaigns for a third term in Albany. Monday, he was at the White House as President Bush announced that Governors Island would be transferred to New York State. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); FAMILY (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CRIME RATES (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (53%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



61 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
F.D.A. Permits Others To Re-Inspect Factories
Even if government inspectors have found widespread problems in pharmaceutical factories, the Food and Drug Administration sometimes approves new medicines to be made in those factories without inspecting them again by relying on company employees or consultants to verify that the problems have been fixed, the agency said.
 The practice came to light after a trade journal reported that the F.D.A. had approved Clarinex, Schering-Plough's new allergy drug, based on factory inspections done by consultants hired by the company. Page C3. 

Credit Suisse Unit Cuts 300 Jobs
Credit Suisse First Boston eliminated 300 executive jobs, including those of about 50 managing directors, as part of its aggressive campaign to trim costs. The job cuts, which the investment banking group's new chief, Adebayo Ogunlesi, left, had said last month were imminent, come amid a continuing slump on Wall Street. All told, Wall Street fired 43,300 people in the year ended in February. C10.

Auto Sales Dropped 1.5% in March
Industry auto sales in the United States fell 1.5 percent in March from a year earlier, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank, a result that was on the optimistic side of most analysts' expectations in a healing economy. C5.

$5 Billion Deal by Royal Dutch/Shell
Royal Dutch/Shell agreed to buy Enterprise Oil for $5 billion in cash. Royal Dutch/Shell is trying to catch up after sitting out a wave of consolidation. World Business, Section W.

Technology Drags Wall St. Lower
Technology stocks dragged Wall Street lower after Goldman, Sachs voiced caution on big-name companies like Microsoft. The Nasdaq composite index declined 58.22 points, or 3.1 percent, to 1,804.40. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 48.99 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,313.71. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 9.78 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,136.76. C11.

The escalation of violence in the Middle East is undermining investor confidence that the recovering economy will lead to higher stock prices. Market Place. C11.

Big Layoff Is Expected at WorldCom
WorldCom is expected to announce plans this week to cut about 7,000 jobs as it seeks to recover from a slowdown in sales and a federal inquiry into its accounting. C11.

Monsanto and DuPont Settle Suits
Monsanto and DuPont agreed to settle 11 lawsuits over genetically modified seeds and gave each other licenses to their patents. C2.

Factory Orders Eased in February
The Commerce Department said the value of orders for manufactured goods eased 0.1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $323.8 billion in February, in contrast to Wall Street economists' expectations of a 1.0 percent pickup in factory orders. The report was a sign that the economy might be recovering at a little less robust pace than some had thought. C4.

A Ratings Lift for Cable News
The latest ratings from Nielsen Media Research provide most all of the cable news networks something to brag about. Fox News widened its lead over CNN. Advertising. C10.

MSNBC is expected today to sign Phil Donahue to host a prime-time discussion program starting this summer. C10.

A Bitter Standoff at Cablevision
James L. Dolan, president of Cablevision, is locked into a bitter standoff with the YES Network, created by the Yankees. The dispute is depriving three million Cablevision subscribers in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut of access to most Yankees games. D1.

Expanded Real Estate Coverage
Today Business Day introduces expanded coverage of commercial real estate. This week: the nationwide convention center race, and Pittsburgh's new entry. C8-C10.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,313.17 down 48.99Nasdaq composite -- 1,804.40 down 58.2210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.34% down 0.08The euro -- $0.8789 down 0.0016The dollar -- 133.39 yen down 0.06 Graph tracks factory orders figures from September to February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PATENTS (69%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (61%); LITIGATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%); MONSANTO CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (93%); RDSA (AMS) (93%); RDS.B (NYSE) (93%); RDS.A (NYSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%); MON (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



62 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Software: PeopleSoft Warns On Sales 

BYLINE:  By Chris Gaither (NYT) (Compiled by Alan Krauss) 

 BODY:
 PeopleSoft, the software company best known for its human-resources applications, said it had missed its first-quarter projections, sending its shares tumbling by a third. One of the most consistent performers in its market last year, PeopleSoft said it now expected to report earnings of 14 cents a share, 3 cents better than the period a year earlier but a penny less than expected by analysts. 
But more worrisome to investors was the company's software-license revenue of $130 million to $135 million, at least $25 million less than Wall Street had expected. The company, based in Pleasanton, Calif., said the license sales "reflected a cautious economic environment." Brent Thill, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston, said the results, coupled with a similar warning from Oracle last month, indicated that corporations remained reluctant to invest in new software despite recent signs of a brightening economic outlook. PeopleSoft shares fell $12.21, to $25.16. Chris Gaither (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily closing price of PeopleSoft shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLESOFT INC 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



63 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Shift Funds to Miss Debt Ceiling 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2 

 BODY:
In the latest turn in a game of political chicken, the Bush administration announced today that it would juggle some finances this week so the statutory ceiling on government borrowing would not be breached.
 In a letter to Congressional leaders, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said that because Congress had not granted President Bush's request to raise the debt limit, he would temporarily shift money from a civil service retirement fund to another account beginning on Thursday to avoid a government default. 
 The step has no practical consequences, but it is bound to have political ramifications. Democrats were quick to argue that the Treasury's action underscored the irresponsibility of the tax cut the president pushed through Congress last year. 
Lawmakers have long played politics with the arcane issue of the debt ceiling. The only reason they insist on a statutory limit on government debt is that it gives Congress political leverage against the president.
The issue last arose in 1995 and 1996. Led by Newt Gingrich, who was House speaker, Republicans blocked an increase in the debt limit in an effort to force President Bill Clinton to sign a Republican budget or risk sending the country into default.
Robert E. Rubin, then the treasury secretary, took action similar to Mr. O'Neill's, and some Republicans threatened to impeach him. For the rest of the Clinton presidency, the debt limit of $5.95 trillion was not a problem. The government was running a surplus, so the debt was falling. But the budget is now in deficit, and Mr. Bush has repeatedly asked Congress to raise the limit before the debt gets to a point where the government cannot legally borrow.
House leaders have refused to bring up such a bill. Not only would many Democrats vote against it to embarrass the president, but many Republicans who argued against lifting the ceiling when Mr. Clinton was president would feel compelled to vote against it now for consistency.
In his letter to Congress, Mr. O'Neill said the government would hit the ceiling on Thursday. To prevent default on government obligations, he said he would temporarily put up to $35 billion from the Federal Employee Retirement System in an account that did not draw interest. Moving the money in that way, from one government pocket to another, would mean that this money would not count as part of the national debt. Lost interest would be repaid.
The government's financial condition will improve after April 15 when a flood of income tax payments is received, and the money will be returned to its fund. At some point this summer, Mr. O'Neill said, another debt crisis will occur.
Democrats said today that the financial gymnastics showed how wrong Mr. Bush was when he said last year that the nation could afford his tax cut and still pay off most of the debt by the end of the decade.
Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, accused the administration today of fiscal mismanagement. But for all their sniping, few Democrats are advocating in this election year that the Bush tax cuts be repealed.
Mr. Bush and his allies in Congress say the new deficits are primarily the result of the poor economy last year, the war in Afghanistan and the cost of domestic security. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); INCOME TAX (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); DEFAULTING; TAXATION; FEDERAL EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002 



64 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE SHOPPER; 
Why Kick the Tires? Just Click the Mouse

BYLINE:  By Michelle Slatalla; E-mail: Slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ANY vehicle that calls itself a family car should have a back seat big enough to divide into kingdoms. 
 The lumbering Cadillac my family took on vacation to the Wisconsin Dells in the 1970's illustrated this concept perfectly. By the time we hit the first rest area, my three brothers and I had carved out sovereign territories, demarcated by a no man's land of crumpled candy bar wrappers. As for accusations that I hogged the armrest and built an onerous Smiley Face pillow barricade, let the record show that I would have been happy to trade the window seat for the Mad magazine my brother was hoarding. 
 My expectations for back seat roominess have remained high. I mention this because I recently went to test-drive a Volkswagen Passat, which Consumer Reports rated the top family car this year. The only available test car (a sedan with automatic transmission) was not the car I really wanted to buy (a beautiful blue five-speed wagon that I had built from scratch on the Volkswagen Web site), but the dealer assured me that the interior dimensions were identical. If that is true, the Passat is a family car with a teensy back seat, barely big enough to accommodate two of my three kids even if one dared to colonize the legroom over the center hump. I couldn't buy that car, in any color. 
I was back to square one, having wasted a week of online research and negotiations with local and online dealers and hours comparing columns of specifications and prices onscreen at sites like Consumerreports
.org and Carsdirect.com. With the lease running out on my Audi wagon, I decided to give the Internet a second chance. After all, I needed a new car, but I was also determined not to be the only shopper in America who would disprove the assertion of J. D. Power and Associates that you can save an average of $500 by buying one through an online service.
The theory? You can get a better car deal online because the buying service negotiates competitive prices with dealerships in advance, in return for promising to send a substantial volume of customers their way. The dealership's profit may be smaller, but it sells cars to customers who otherwise might have bought elsewhere. 
The reality? A good price quote is only worth something if you actually buy a car. The evening after my test drive, I had a soul-searching phone conversation with a helpful, patient Carsdirect.com sales specialist who was starting to remind me of my old therapist. After I revealed the embarrassing truth about why I was set on a station wagon (the large expanse of windshield in a minivan makes my husband feel nauseated), the specialist advised me to consider a Saab or a Volvo. Carsdirect.com had negotiated special prices for those models with partner dealerships. 
I went to a local Volvo dealer to test drive a Volvo AWD XC wagon (now, there's a backseat that will accommodate three girls, their Harry Potter cassette tapes, a magnetic travel Scrabble board and selected headless Barbies). Then I compared the local dealer's price for a car on the lot with a similarly equipped vehicle on Carsdirect.com. 
The local dealer's price: $38,067.
Carsdirect.com's price: $36,567. 
The local dealer refused to match the lower price, saying it was $700 below its cost from the manufacturer. The best price he was willing to offer was around $37,600. 
Why the disparity? I phoned Chris Denove, the senior director of automotive research at J.D. Power, who explained. "If anybody is the loser with online buying services it's the dealer, because these services are narrowing the dealer's profit margin on each car purchased, but they aren't making more people purchase a vehicle," he said. "It's still 16 million to 17 million people a year who buy a car. 
"But who's to say what the dealer really paid for a car?" he added. "No dealer is going to sell you a car for a price lower than what they paid for it, so the simplest economic theory tells you that there's still some profit for a dealer in the Carsdirect.com price." 
This time I was willing to accept any color, but the Carsdirect.com specialist phoned to say he could not find a Volvo XC wagon without the Touring Package, a feature that would add $1,190 to the price, for such inscrutably silly items as a grocery-bag holder. (My local dealer didn't have one without the Touring Package either.) I could have placed a special order, but that vehicle might not arrive for about eight weeks.
My next question to Mr. Denove: Where were the cars without the Touring Packages? 
"There's the pressure for the manufacturers to put on the bells and whistles, to make more profit," he said. "So even with the added information you get online, you still pretty much end up settling for what's already on the lot, with unnecessary options." 
By this time the negotiations had nearly exhausted me. "What harm would a grocery-bag holder do?" I reasoned. 
The next hurdle: lease or buy? Since Consumer Reports New Car Price report (for which I had paid $12) raised concerns about Volvo's long-term reliability, I opted for a 39-month closed-end lease, which would allow me to drive 15,000 miles a year. Again, the lease terms quoted by Carsdirect.com were far less than what I had expected, including the down payment of $1,073 and monthly payments of $468. Why? 
"It's just a good deal that we negotiated," the sale specialist said. 
To learn more, I went to Edmunds
.com and read a tutorial on financing and leasing, which explained terms like "money factor" and "residual" and "gap insurance," details I had found mind-numbingly dull until my own money was on the line.
After determining that the lease's interest rate was low and the residual price I would pay if I purchased the car at the end of the lease was high, I understood enough to tell the Carsdirect.com sales specialist I wanted the Volvo wagon. 
He put me in touch with a dealer in Brooklyn, about a 90-minute drive from my house. The dealer installed another option -- a third seat to transport kids who weigh under 85 pounds -- which increased the monthly payments by about $18. 
The dealer offered to deliver the car to my house, which would have been convenient, but trying to coordinate a delivery time proved too difficult. It turned out to be just as easy to pick it up. I drove to Bay Ridge Volvo yesterday, where it took only about an hour to complete the paperwork, write a check and drive away in the new car. 
All it needs now are some crumpled candy wrappers.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Kopecky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (88%); INTERNET RETAILING (87%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); SEDANS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%) AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: SLATALLA, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



65 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Novel's Sequel: Bridges Are Burned; 
'Madison County' Author Returns to His Best-Selling Characters

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Ten years after his "Bridges of Madison County" conquered the best-seller list (it sold six million hardcover copies in North America, which makes it the best-selling hardcover novel of all time), Robert James Waller has written what he describes as an epilogue to the original story. That book, "A Thousand Country Roads," will make it to stores late this month.
 Its prose style and pace will be familiar to lovers of the first book. It is 16 years later, but Francesca Johnson can still fit into the pink dress she wore for the candlelit farmhouse dinner that began the affair in the first book. Robert Kincaid, who rode into Francesca's life like "a leopard on the tail of a comet," has been injured in a photo shoot and is sick, but he still sports the signature suspenders, smokes prodigious numbers of Camels and drives his truck, Harry. 
 Despite the lovers' return and the platinum pedigree of "Country Roads," it makes its way to print with a surprising number of questions, commercial, artistic and otherwise. In addition to reissuing a book of essays and releasing a book of photographs and a country music CD, the prolific Mr. Waller has published three novels since "Bridges." The audience for each has been significantly smaller than for the one before. 
Warner Books, which made a bundle when it discovered the first book, passed on "Country Roads," largely because early drafts of the novel were so disappointing to its editors. Warner also feared that the book would frustrate audiences because despite some teasing near-misses, the love-tossed couple do not meet again. Mr. Waller insisted that a meeting would violate the integrity of the first book, which makes clear that they die without seeing each other again. After Warner passed, Mr. Waller decided to bypass the entire New York publishing machine and instead went with the little-known John M. Hardy Publishing.
"We felt that in some respects this book lacks emotional payoff," said Laurence J. Kirshbaum, chairman of Warner Books, a division of AOL Time Warner. "Unlike 'Bridges,' which had four wonderful days, this is less focused, and that concerned us."
Then there is Mr. Waller himself, who has frequently said Robert Kincaid is 80 percent him. Fame stung this business dean turned author. As "Bridges" grew into a national phenomenon, was celebrated on "Oprah" and became the subject of church hall meetings, publishing's glitterati and an array of incensed literary critics got ornery. He insists he does not read reviews and derisive articles, and he describes his own writings modestly as printed campfire tales, yet even a decade later his bruises from the critical beatings still seem bright purple and blue.
"I really do have a small ego," Mr. Waller said in a recent phone conversation. "I am open to rational discussion. If you don't like the book and can say why, I am willing to listen. But the criticism turned to nastiness. There were personnel attacks on my hair and on my bracelet. I was stunned." With the exception of one Iowa reporter and now The New York Times, he says, he has not given interviews since 1995.
That is not all Mr. Waller has changed about his life. He has left Iowa, where he grew up and lived most of his adult life and which he used to characterize as the unlikeliest of backdrops for a torrid bodice ripper. He moved to a ranch in the star-filled but far-removed outpost of Alpine, Tex. He also divorced his wife of 36 years, the woman he had described as the inspiration for Francesca in 1997, for a much younger women who was the family's landscaper. (He said he would not comment on the changes in his family situation, saying, "Affairs of the bedroom are off limits.")
Despite those wrenching changes, or perhaps because of them, Mr. Waller seems to have used his money to live as a real-life Iron John. Like Kincaid, who was sensitive enough to wipe the tub after he bathed in it yet man enough to bring Francesca to ecstasy, Mr. Waller writes poetry, tends a vast ranch, reads political economic textbooks for pleasure (he has a doctorate in economics), and cares for his girlfriend, Linda Bow, who has been ill.
A longtime guitar player and performer, he has self-recorded a new CD of bluesy twangy ballads in his pleasant smoke-cured voice, but he plans to make the collection available only to friends. He is also working on a book of photographs to be accompanied by his poems and essays someday. 
His alter ego, however, has not fared the passing of the years nearly so well. In "Country Roads," despite an ending that is too pat and feel-good, Kincaid for much of the book is a pathetic figure. He is so alone at the beginning that it is almost pitiful: a circumstance, Mr. Waller acknowledges, that cannot be separated from his own anxieties. 
"Now he is 68, and I am coming up on 63, so I had to think hard about how he would feel about being all alone and a little physically disabled," Mr. Waller said. "He is vulnerable. I think a psychologist would diagnose him as clinically depressed."
His decision to write another installment of "Bridges" has been long in coming. He says it was inspired by frequent mail and queries from fans who wanted to learn more about what happened to Kincaid and Johnson in the years between kitchen counter surrender and death. Although it develops its own plots and introduces other Kincaid love interests, Mr. Waller views this second book as a companion piece to the first. "Everything in the epilogue could have fit cleverly in the first book," he says.
But "Country Road" did not come as easily as "Bridges," which Mr. Waller famously wrote in 11 days. "The first book was given to me. It was a magical experience," he said. "This was harder." Then, after thinking about it, "but not real hard." Still, it was hard enough that when Mr. Waller completed a first draft more than a year ago, Warner Books made the unusual decision not to option the right to publish it, causing a collective giggle of vituperative glee in the New York literary world.
Yet Mr. Waller and his agent Aaron Priest are hardly shamed by the rejection. "It is exactly as well written as 'The Bridges of Madison County,' " Mr. Priest said defiantly. "I have no doubt it could have been sold to a major New York publisher. 'Bridges' sold six million hardcover. Suppose 9 out of 10 of those readers did not want this book, it would still sell 600,000 copies hardcover. That is a huge best seller."
Instead of going hat in hand to other New York publishers, Mr. Waller opted out of the system. He kept his manuscript in his desk for a year, then decided to go with the tiny Hardy company in Alpine, Tex. Mr. Waller and his agent will not discuss the details of the deal, which presumably involves some kind of percentage profit sharing. With the guidance of Jean Hardy, John's wife, who also works at the company, he substantially reworked the book.
In the end, the joke may be on New York's publishing elite and the literary critics who guard its gates so viciously. At first Hardy was to print only 25,000 copies of "Roads," self-consciously copying the build-slowly pattern that hoisted "Bridges," but the book-buyer response at the wholesale level has been so large that the first printing is now about 250,000, already positioning the book for best-seller territory.
Of course, just because bookstores stock it does not mean fans will buy it. But already one reader has read the new version and liked it. "It was a mistake," said Warner's Mr. Kirshbaum "If I had my life to live over again, we would have published it. I think it is going to be a big hit."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Warner Books published "Bridges of Madison County" but passed on its sequel, both by Robert James Waller, shown at left on his Texas ranch with Jack, his border collie. (Linda Solomon)(pg. E1); Robert James Waller at his ranch in Alpine, Tex. (Linda Solomon)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); HARDCOVER PUBLISHING (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (77%); COUNTRY MUSIC (76%); CONTUSIONS (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AOL INC (63%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (54%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



66 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Interactive TV Is Finally Here, Sort Of 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

 BODY:
INTERACTIVE television has arrived. It is not widespread, but it is here -- right here, in the home of Steve and Vanessa Murphy. 
 When the Murphys don't feel like going out for an evening, they can curl up on the couch, pick up the television remote and choose from among 200 on-demand movies offered by their cable company, Insight Communications. The movie starts immediately, and they can pause, fast-forward and rewind it as if it were a Blockbuster video. 
 If their teenage son, Reinaldo, wants to go to the local multiplex with friends, he can browse showtimes on the television screen. On weekday mornings Mrs. Murphy can pull up the local weather report when she wants to know how to dress her two daughters, Lauren, 9, and Kayla, 7, for school. She can even call up the school lunch menu with her remote control. In the evenings the family gathers around the television set to play trivia games. 
All that and more than 100 television channels, too. 
After decades of false starts, interactive television is creeping into millions of American living rooms. If you have not seen it, you may think it does not exist, but to families like the Murphys, it has become part of their daily routine. 
"Before, you had a little black box that you could flip channels on," said Reinaldo, 17. "That was it. Now it's everything you could want." 
Forrester Research, a technology consulting company, estimates that by the end of this year, about 15 percent of the 105 million United States households with television sets will have some kind of interactive service -- almost double last year's number. The growth has been spurred by fierce competition among cable and satellite services and by the falling costs of the technology. 
Unlike the grandiose dreams of the past, interactive services currently available in the United States seem rather modest. They include video on demand, expanded content for channels like ESPN and the Weather Channel, and virtual channels to provide local information like restaurant listings or sell books, pizza and other products. 
What American viewers are unlikely to see anytime soon is two-way interactivity with programs through the television set, a longtime ambition of broadcasters and advertisers. Hybrid Internet-television services like AOLTV and MSN TV have experimented with interactive programming, but with fewer than one million users, they have not held much appeal for broadcasters. In two-way interactivity, the United States is far behind Britain, the country where interactive television is perhaps most advanced. 
In the United States, early experiments in interactivity were ambitious but disappointing. They included the Qube system from Warner Amex Cable Communications in Columbus, Ohio, in the 1970's and the Full Service Network from Time Warner in Orlando, Fla., in the mid-1990's. The Qube system allowed viewers to vote on issues during talk shows. 
Both services were stymied by cost. The set-top box for Time Warner's system cost $7,000, compared with the $200 to $300 for current digital set-top cable boxes. 
Now interactivity is gaining a foothold, though in less ambitious forms. In part, the earlier experiments taught cable operators what works and what does not. What works are features that satellite television finds difficult to match: video on demand and local content. 
The growth of interactivity is also furthered by the simple fact that no home electronic device is as pervasive as television. More than 98 percent of American households have a television set and more than 80 percent of households subscribe to cable or satellite television. Only about 60 percent of households have PC's. 
The PC has yet to achieve the shrinelike status of the television set. While people have been conditioned to pay for television content, there is still resistance to paying for entertainment on the Internet -- pornography and gambling excepted. For all the talk of convergence, consumers are bent on keeping PC and TV separate. 
So now, cable subscribers in Hawaii can perform karaoke and order pizza with their remotes. Many cable viewers can punch up "Shrek" or other popular movies for instant viewing. EchoStar satellite subscribers will soon be able to play games on their television sets. 
Few companies exemplify the trend toward interactivity better than Insight, the nation's ninth-largest cable operator, which has introduced such systems to its 1.4 million customers, most of whom live in Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio and Illinois. 
Insight's strategy is to think local. Its LocalSource application includes information on traffic conditions and local band performances. "You could look at this and think this is gritty, stupid little stuff," said Josh Bernoff, an analyst at Forrester Research. "When they say people love this, they are not just making it up." 
Patrick O'Leary, an Insight subscriber in Louisville, said: "Movie listings are so easy. I don't have to call some annoying voice system. I don't have to pull out some paper. I don't have to log on to the Internet. I can just come in and turn on the television." When Mr. O'Leary's 9-year-old son, Connor, is bored, he can order a movie or play a game on TV. 
Digital cable and interactive television were introduced in Louisville about a year ago. Since then, nearly one-third of Insight's customers have signed up for digital cable and two-thirds of its new customers are ordering it. Digital customers pay an average of $20 more per month than traditional analog customers. "Customers don't buy digital cable for the interactive television, but it is why they keep it," said Michael S. Willner, chief executive of Insight. 
Insight customers have Motorola set-top boxes with 6.8 megabytes of RAM running software from Liberate Technologies. 
Insight's flavor of interactive television is unlikely to become a national model. A major reason is that the cable landscape is geographically fractured, with companies pursuing different strategies.
Almost all large cable companies, however, have plans to offer some video on demand. Some companies are experimenting with subscription services in which viewers are offered unlimited access to programs for a monthly fee. Insight, for example, offers all the "Teletubbies" or other children's shows that a toddler can watch for $9.95 a month. Since July, Time Warner has been testing HBO on Demand on cable systems on Long Island and in Cincinnati, Cleveland, Austin, Tex., and Columbia, S.C. 
Rainbow Media, a subsidiary of Cablevision, has created an on-demand subscription service called Mag Rack that offers niche programming for birdwatchers, motorcyclists, vegetarians and Roman Catholics -- offerings that do not generate enough demand to justify a channel of their own. 
To compete with cable's video-on-demand services, the satellite operators EchoStar and DirecTV are building digital video recorders into their latest generation of satellite receivers that will record what the user wants to see for viewing at any time. They are also adding games and enhanced content on channels like ESPN and the Weather Channel. 
The rise of satellite services in the last few years has provided much of the impetus for developing new interactive features. In eight years, satellite providers have captured more than 20 percent of the pay television market. Cable companies are spending billions on digital services, not so much because they want to as because they have to. 
The focus on video on demand and channels for local content and commerce contrasts sharply with the interactive arena in Britain, which has focused on programming. 
"In Britain, interactive television is transforming the way people watch television," said James Ackerman, the chief executive of OpenTV, which provides interactive television software worldwide. 
Sports fans can choose from four camera angles for soccer games. Children can vote for which program they want Nickelodeon to broadcast on Sunday afternoon.
But the British have not neglected shopping: viewers can purchase products direct from QVC with a "buy now" button, which became available in September. Already, 10 percent of QVC sales in Britain are made through the television rather than by telephone or online. 
British Sky Broadcasting, which has more than five million digital subscribers, offers hundreds of channels as alternatives to the nation's five broadcast channels. That digital subscriber audience, nearly a quarter of Britain's television households, has given broadcasters an incentive to create interactive applications. 
In the United States, there is a hodgepodge of standards and a lack of dominant players, so widespread interactivity in television programs seems far away. 
That does not mean that viewers like the Murphys and O'Learys are unhappy with their service. They are quite satisfied, even if they wonder at times what all the fuss is about. Interactivity has become such a given to Insight customers that they do not realize that most viewers in the country do not have those services. 
"They assume that I have this too," said Mr. Willner, whose cable system in the New York area does not offer interactivity. "You want to jump up and down and say, 'Don't you realize what you have here?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by David R. Lutman for The New York Times)(pg. G1); INTERACTING -- Steve Murphy of Louisville, Ky., with his daughter Kayla, 7, and son, Reinaldo, 17. They can choose from hundreds of on-demand movies and other interactive features offered by their cable company. (David R. Lutman for The New York Times)(pg. G6) Chart: "The Menu Isn't Always the Same"Interactive television takes several forms, depending upon who is offering it. Four broad categories of services are available; many systems offer more than one. VIDEO ON DEMANDInstant access to movies, old television shows and other recorded programs, with the ability to pause, fast-forward and rewind. MILLIONS OF HOUSEHOLDS2001: 3.12002: 8.5 ENHANCED TVAccess to more information on an existing channel, like on-demand scores on ESPN or local forecasts on the Weather Channel. MILLIONS OF HOUSEHOLDS2001: 7.52002: 14.6 VIRTUAL CHANNELSContent not connected to programming, like lunch menus and restaurant listings. May also include electronic commerce -- ordering pizza, for example. MILLIONS OF HOUSEHOLDS2001: 5.32002: 16.5 VIEWER PARTICIPATIONAbility to interact with live programming, like voting for a contestant in a game show. MILLIONS OF HOUSEHOLDS2001: 0.72002: 0.6 (Source: Forrester Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); BROADBAND (79%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (78%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%) TELEVISION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (84%); INSIGHT COMMUNICATIONS CO INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ESPN; WEATHER CHANNEL; INSIGHT COMMUNICATIONS INC 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (74%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



67 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: In Southeast Asia, a Wary Optimism 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, April 3 

 BODY:
The waves of America's apparent economic recovery are poised to break over Southeast Asia, many economists say. But despite the rosiest economic forecasts in years, skepticism abounds in the region.
 Michael D. Ruslim, a director at PT Astra International, is among those not holding his breath. 
 Astra manufactures and distributes the best-selling cars and motorcycles in Indonesia, the region's largest economy. Its vehicles are everywhere, from Toyota minivans grinding through city traffic jams to Honda motorcycles crisscrossing rural rice paddies. Even so, the company has found the going tough, its struggles emblematic of the region's post-1997 travails. 
Mired in debt, Astra survived the region's financial crisis only by laying off thousands of workers, selling some assets and taking on a foreign company, Cycle and Carriage of Singapore, as its largest shareholder.
Now, despite signs of recovery across the Pacific, Astra predicts that sales this year and next will be flat. Business prospects are drying up for the small enterprises and families that make up the bulk of the company's customers, Mr. Ruslim said.
After weathering the global recession in better shape than many economists had expected, Southeast Asia's economies are being fueled by heavy government spending, low interest rates and buoyant consumer spending. A recovery in exports to the United States will round out the picture, they say, providing a gentler rebound than the V-shaped recovery Southeast Asia experienced in 1999 after its financial crisis, but a rebound nonetheless.
"We are entering a period of sustained but gradual growth for the next two years," said William C. Belchere, head of economics and fixed-income strategy at Merrill Lynch in Singapore.
The question hounding skeptics is one shared by policy makers hoping to curb the kind of poverty that helps drive young people in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, and the Philippines into the arms of religious extremists: Will the rebound be strong enough to replace the thousands of jobs lost during the downturn and create enough new ones for the legions of young job seekers?
According to Mr. Ruslim and others, that depends in part on whether the rebound brings foreign investment with it and whether the economic woes of Japan, once Southeast Asia's biggest investor, and the increasing economic competition from China extend the decline. The biggest investment banks clearly are not optimistic: Credit Suisse First Boston, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch have all pared back their Southeast Asian operations.
Southeast Asia's stock markets are jumping as they expect a rebound, but the signs of the incipient rebound are subtle. Exports are still falling, but more slowly than before. Industrial production figures indicate that this trend may soon be reversed, economists say, and it is just a matter of time before American managers regain the confidence to start placing orders with Southeast Asian factories.
"You won't actually see the export numbers themselves look all that impressive until midyear," said David G. Fernandez, head of Asian sovereign research at J. P. Morgan in Singapore.
The signs can vary even within a single company. Hewlett-Packard, for example, says there is robust demand for its customer resource management and other systems from mobile phone operators and banks that are competing to offer new services. But from the region's export manufacturers, said Leong Han Kong, Hewlett-Packard's general manager for sales and marketing in Southeast Asia, "we're still not seeing a strong signal yet." He added, "Corporations are very cautious about spending."
Nowhere is that split truer than in Thailand, the region's second-largest economy. Though Thai banks and telecommunications operators are still spending, Mr. Leong said electronics manufacturers were cutting back as they lost business to China.
Though foreign investment in Thailand jumped last year, it has yet to recover to precrisis levels. Instead, Thailand's economy has been held above water by consumers, who have responded to record lows in interest rates by buying computers, cars and new homes.
Tiny, affluent Singapore is Southeast Asia's third-largest economy, and it is more dependent on demand in the United States for high-technology products than any of its neighbors. Because of that dependence, it was the only Southeast Asian nation to slip into recession as the American bubble burst. But it also means that Singapore has the most to gain from a recovery. Even so, the government is trying to steer Singapore into areas, like chemicals and pharmaceuticals, where it has an edge over cheaper competitors.
"We know we've got to reposition ourselves," said Tharman Shanmugaratnam, the senior minister of state for trade and industry. "China has basically changed the equation."
Indonesia remains Southeast Asia's biggest question mark. It is more than just the region's biggest economy.
Indonesia's troubles reverberate throughout the region. Its forest fires obscure its neighbors' skies. Its migrant workers seek jobs abroad, filling detention centers and putting pressure on other labor markets. And its pirates menace the region's shipping lanes.
Rising oil prices augur well for Indonesian exports. Moreover, Indonesia is less reliant than its neighbors on exports and large enough to survive on domestic consumption, provided that there is sufficient investment and growth to raise real wages. According to the World Bank's Indonesia economist, Vikram Nehru, "sufficient" means growth of 5 percent to 6 percent.
But real wages have stagnated, according to Mr. Nehru. And rural unrest, labor strife and bureaucratic intransigence combine to hinder investment, both foreign and domestic.
Mr. Ruslim knows this firsthand. A strike last year at one of Astra's suppliers halted sales for two months. And plans to sell its oil-palm plantations to foreign investors fell apart after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States.
Some economists say investors can take comfort in what is bound to be a more lenient, post-Sept. 11 stance by Indonesia's official creditors, including the World Bank.
But Mr. Nehru said the onus was more than ever on the administration of President Megawati Sukarnoputri. Rekindling investment, he said, "depends on the government's ability to maintain steady reforms and bring back confidence in the economy."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Expecting An Upturn"Economic growth in Southeast Asia and neighboring nations is expected to revive this year and next. Graph tracking and forecasting the economic growth of Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. (Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); MOTORCYCLES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); RELIGION (62%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: PT ASTRA INTERNATIONAL TBK (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON; GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC; LEHMAN BROTHERS; MERRILL LYNCH & CO 

TICKER: ASII (IDX) (84%); GS (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: ;ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (99%); ASIA (97%); INDONESIA (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); CHINA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



68 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Journal; 
Sushi Comes Home, With Cream Cheese and Chili

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 29 

 BODY:
As a Japanese college student working in an expensive Chicago sushi restaurant a decade ago, Yoko Shibata was jolted with culture shock as she watched boisterous American customers drinking cocktails with their meals and shouting over loud music as they ate.
 Her surprise only deepened as she watched the regulars order custom-made sushi dishes -- combinations like eel, cucumber and cream cheese, or flying-fish roe, red chili and mayonnaise. 
 But in an era of boomerang globalization, with Starbucks selling espresso to Italians, and California cabernets airing on European tables, Ms. Shibata decided that when she moved back to Tokyo she would bring American-style sushi with her. 
Last year, Ms. Shibata opened her restaurant, Rainbow Roll Sushi, and in testament to her inspiration, business is booming, despite Japan's difficult economic climate.
Ms. Shibata was a pioneer in a culinary cross-fertilization that has brought several inventive sushi restaurants here recently, mostly in upscale neighborhoods like Azabujuban, where cosmopolitan young professionals often gather.
The high-speed ricochet of American and other influences across the Pacific is all the more remarkable considering that sushi itself was one of the more exotic transplants to the West.
The decor in Rainbow Roll Sushi reflects the global hybridization as brazenly as the food itself. Traditional Japanese sushi restaurants, especially upscale ones, display a Zen-like austerity dominated by sober cedar accents, from slatted doors to the glistening dining counters, where the food is often served without plates.
Rainbow Roll Sushi, on the other hand, has gray felt wallpaper and matching low slung chairs with a long marble counter and gently wafting Hawaiian music by day and bouncy Latin tunes by night. "I designed everything myself, from the uniform and menu to the tableware," said Ms. Shibata, 30, who calls herself Rainbow Roll Sushi's "producer" rather than its manager or director. "Ordinarily, with a decor like ours, you would expect to hear jazz, wouldn't you? We aim for anything but the ordinary."
At another flourishing, newfangled sushi restaurant, Central Mikunis, near Tokyo Station, the opulent design marries Renaissance Europe with contemporary Los Angeles, with its vaulting, painted ceilings and brushed aluminum walls.
The food at Central Mikunis is served at barside with revolving conveyor -- an innovation introduced to traditional sushi bars in the late 1960's -- that bring an array of delicacies within reach.
As with Rainbow Roll Sushi, though, the real departure from tradition is in the menu. One of Mikuni's specialties, for example, is a sushi sandwich, made with tiny croissants.
Rainbow Roll has succeeded with the affluent, well-traveled people in their 30's. But it has also been a hit with curious housewives. Men in their 40's and older, though, have mostly stayed away, except when dragged there by daughters or dates.
"In a traditional Japanese sushi restaurant, when you are finished eating, you must get up and leave," said Kinuko Sawayama, 23, one of two smartly dressed university students having lunch together. "Here, they have sofas and comfortable chairs, and in the evening there is a lively ambiance."
"You can really feel the internationalization that Japan is undergoing through places like this," said her friend Lisa Yanagisawa, also 23. "And the delicious combinations are changing the way that younger people, like me, think about Japanese food."
Many sushi chefs scoff at such recipes, as they stick to their traditional ways. "I can't comment on this, because the reaction of each sushi master is different," said Shigeo Mori, a famous chef who heads Japan's sushi chefs union. "Some of us accept the new imports, but others don't regard it as sushi at all."
At bottom, the blossoming of new forms like these in one of the most prestigious and tradition-bound areas of the country's cuisine reflects the tensions between profound, yet seemingly contradictory traits of Japanese culture: a reverence for heavily ritualized techniques, or kata, and an eager acceptance of imported innovations and trends.
Experts say that while maybe imperceptible to diners, sushi making methods have changed over, well, centuries.
"What we call onigiri today may seem traditional, but it doesn't have such a long history, only to the mid-1800's," said Kazunari Yanagihara, a television chef, teacher and culinary critic, referring to the vinegary rice -- squeezed into thumb-like segments -- that is the basis of most sushi.
Today fatty, succulent tuna, or maguro, is so popular in sushi cuisine that for most Japanese eating sushi means eating tuna. A little more than a century ago, however, Mr. Yanagihara said maguro was not popular at all.
"Since World War II our tastes and cooking methods have been changing more and more rapidly," he said. "If you compare the food of today to the food of the 1970's, there is probably twice as much fat being used. More and more, young people want fatty dishes, and these kinds of tastes are making foreign cuisines fashionable."
Mr. Yanagihara said critics who would dismiss the use of ingredients like cream cheese and mayonnaise in what many still call "re-imported sushi" as nothing more than trendiness should be mindful of Japanese culinary history.
"Upper-class people used to dismiss sukiyaki, too, which was invented a little more than century ago," he said. "Today, though, it is seen as genuinely Japanese cuisine. It is possible that some day this new sushi, with things like avocado and mayonnaise will become accepted, or even celebrated. Only time will tell."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yoko Shibata opened the Rainbow Roll Sushi restaurant last year, after seeing customers in America order custom creations like flying-fish roe, red chili and mayonnaise. Business is strong despite Japan's hard times. (Toru Morimoto for The New York Times); (Stuart Isett/Gamma, for The New York Times) Map of Japan highlighting Azabujuban: In upscale Azabujuban, American-style sushi has clicked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (54%) RESTAURANTS 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (72%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



69 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; 
Price ofCrude Oil Is Down For First Time in 6 Sessions

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Crude oil fell for the first time in six sessions yesterday after the American Petroleum Institute reported that United States inventories had their biggest weekly gain in 11 months.
 The increase came as tankers made deliveries to refineries in Houston after having been delayed by fog in late March. 
 Prices were up about 8 percent from a week ago as violence between Israel and the Palestinians added to concerns that Middle East supplies might be disrupted. 
"Prices fell after the inventory report, though with the unsettled Middle East we aren't getting as dramatic a move down as one might have expected," said Abe Glass, the president of Glass Futures, an energy brokerage firm in New York.
Crude oil for May delivery fell 15 cents, to $27.56 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices fell as low as $27.15 during the session.
Oil rose on Tuesday to $28.10 a barrel, the highest price since Sept. 18.
In London, crude oil for May settlement fell 39 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $27.27 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange.
Oil prices rebounded from the day's lows on reports that Egypt would limit diplomatic contacts with Israel. Egypt and Jordan are the only Arab states with embassies in Israel.
Israel reportedly expanded its West Bank offensive yesterday.
United States inventories of crude oil rose 6.5 million barrels, or 2.1 percent, to 322 million barrels in the week ended Friday, the highest level since June, the institute's report showed. The delay in tanker deliveries caused a decline of 6.2 million barrels in last week's report.
The jump in oil supplies has "taken some steam out of the rally," said Chester Irvin, a crude oil broker at ABN Amro in New York.
Prices had been rising as tensions in the Middle East escalated, not because of the fundamentals of supply and demand, he said.
Supplies of gasoline rose 3.87 million barrels, or 1.9 percent, to 209 million barrels, the first rise in six weeks, the institute said. Supplies were 8.7 percent higher than year-earlier levels.
Gasoline futures for May delivery fell 2.14 cents, or 2.5 percent, at 84.84 cents a gallon on the New York exchange. Prices reached their highest in nine and a half months on Tuesday.
"Gasoline is showing what should be happening in the market, based on stockpiles," said David Becker, energy derivatives trading manager at Citibank in New York. Turbulence in the Middle East provides "a solid bid underlying the crude oil market," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since October 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (88%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (79%); GASOLINE (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (91%); EGYPT (90%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



70 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 556 words

PERSON: Wolfgang F. Stolper 

HEADLINE: W. F. Stolper, Trade Theory Economist, Is Dead at 89 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Wolfgang F. Stolper, an economist who more than 60 years ago inspired a theory about international trade that to this day helps to explain its effect on national economies, died on Sunday in Ann Arbor, Mich., where he lived. He was 89.
 The breakthrough insight, known as the Stolper-Samuelson theorem, came in 1941 when Mr. Stolper was a young instructor at Harvard and a colleague of Paul A. Samuelson. Mr. Samuelson was exploring trade theory, which held then that open trade benefited the economies of the trading nations and their work forces. 
 That was when Mr. Stolper came to Mr. Samuelson with a caveat. Trade stimulates greater economic growth, Mr. Stolper agreed, but is not necessarily beneficial for all workers. As trade between countries rises, prices change, scarcity and abundance come into play, and the wages of some workers -- the abundant ones -- fall.
"Stolper came to me with this very important insight," Mr. Samuelson recalled yesterday, "and I said: 'That is really important. It is not in the literature, and you should write it up.' "
"I was the midwife for the Stolper-Samuelson theorem, which is Stolper-Samuelson, not Samuelson-Stolper," he added.
Although trade theory has greatly evolved since the 1940's, the Stolper insight has remained an essential part.
In contrast to Mr. Samuelson, a Nobel laureate, Mr. Stolper never again achieved another breakthrough in theory equal to the insight that has made his name so well known in his profession. He went on to specialize in developing-country economics, an interest that grew out of his research on East Germany and a book, "The Structure of the East German Economy."
Mr. Stolper moved from Harvard to Swarthmore College in 1941 and to the University of Michigan in 1949, teaching economics there until he retired in 1983. Along with teaching, Mr. Stolper took on a parallel role as an adviser abroad, most notably in Nigeria. In the early 1960's, he served for a year as the chief economic adviser to the struggling government of that newly independent nation.
Out of that experience came a book, "Planning Without Facts." At his death, Mr. Stolper was preparing a memoir based on his Nigerian experiences, drawn from the letters he wrote almost daily to his wife, Martha Vogeli Stolper, who was in Ann Arbor. 
Wolfgang Frederich Stolper was born in Vienna on May 13, 1912. After World War I, the family moved to Bonn, where Mr. Stolper's father, Gustav, published a weekly economics journal, served one term in Parliament and introduced his son to the famous economist Joseph A. Schumpeter, who became the young man's mentor, not only in Germany but also later at Harvard. Mr. Stolper wrote a biography of his mentor, "Joseph Alois Schumpeter," which was published in 1994.
The Stolper family fled to the United States after Hitler rose to power in 1933. Entering Harvard as a graduate student, Mr. Stolper received a doctorate in economics in 1938. But economics was only one interest. An accomplished pianist, Mr. Stolper had two grand pianos in his Ann Arbor home and regularly invited guests to the house for chamber music concerts.
His first wife died in 1972. He is survived by his second wife, Margot Kaufmann; two sons, Matthew W., of Chicago, and Thomas E., of New Haven; a brother, Max, of Alexandria, Va.; and a sister, Joan Campbell, of Toronto.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wolfgang F. Stolper, in 1991. (University of Michigan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit) 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (84%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); WORLD WAR I (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

STOLPER, WOLFGANG F; UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (92%); GERMANY (86%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%)

CATEGORY: Economics 

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



71 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Service Economy Slowdown Helps Send Shares Lower

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell to their lowest level in more than a month yesterday after a report showing a slowdown in the service economy added to concerns over fighting in the Middle East.
 Adelphia Communications and the Williams Companies dropped after becoming the latest companies to say the Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating their accounting practices amid increased investor scrutiny since the collapse of Enron. 
 "The psychological overhang from the Middle East and corporate accounting issues will tend to keep us from doing as well as we should be for the next couple of months," said Alfred Kugel, a strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham, which manages $25 billion in Chicago. 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing led the Dow Jones industrial average down 115.42 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,198.29. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 11.36 points, or 1 percent, to 1,125.40, paced by Microsoft. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 20.05 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,784.35. All three gauges dipped to the lowest since Feb. 28.
Earnings at companies in the S.& P. 500 are forecast to rise 8.7 percent in the second quarter, according to Thomson Financial. 
"Investors have to ratchet down their expectations for earnings," said Stephen Atkins, who manages $2 billion at Northern Trust Value Investors. "It will be an average profit recovery, maybe not even that high."
Stocks slid after a report showed services, the biggest part of the economy, expanded at a slower pace in March than in February, citing a survey of purchasing executives. 
Since peace talks broke down March 21 between Israel and the Palestinians, daily trading on the New York Stock Exchange has fallen 13 percent from the average for the year as the fighting escalated.
"What's getting everyone nervous is what's going on in Israel," said Barry Savitz, a trader at Greenwich Prime Trading, which manages transactions for 40 hedge funds in Greenwich, Conn.
Minnesota Mining, which makes products ranging from Scotchguard to respirators, slipped $2.08, to $112.91. A Lehman Brothers analyst, Donald Zwyer, said 3M shares were richly valued and he was concerned about slowing sales and higher costs. The shares have risen 67 percent in the last six months.
Microsoft dropped 97 cents, to $56.33.
Adelphia dropped 79 cents, to $11.04. The company said the S.E.C. was investigating whether it adequately disclosed $2.3 billion in debt.
Williams, a pipeline company and energy trader, shed $1.09, to $23.08, after saying the S.E.C. asked about third-quarter earnings. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
(By Reuters) -- Treasury bond prices rose yesterday, led by gains in short-term notes as tensions in the Middle East and a fourth day of losses in blue-chip stocks prompted investors to bet that the Federal Reserve would not be quick to raise interest rates in coming months.
By late in the day, the two-year note rose 5/32, to a price of 100 6/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.53 percent from 3.61 percent on Tuesday. The price of a 10-year note increased 16/32, to 96 31/32. Its yield dropped to 5.27 percent from 5.34 percent.
The 30-year bond also climbed, rising 20/32, to 94 6/32. Its yield fell to 5.72 percent from 5.76 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's 12-day cash management auction:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.941
Investment rate: 1.796
High rate: 1.78%
Low rate: 1.74%
Median rate: 1.77%
Total applied for: $76,750,000
Accepted: $23,000,440
Noncompetitive: -0-

The 12-day cash management bills mature April 16.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" shows stocks with large price percentage gains and losses for the day. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Blomberg News, Dow Jones, Reuters); "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); PEACE PROCESS (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS COS INC (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); TIME WARNER INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); STEIN ROE & FARNHAM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); 3M CO (56%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: WMB (NYSE) (91%); TWX (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); MMM (SWX) (56%); MMM (NYSE) (56%); MMM (FRA) (56%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (56%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



72 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Two cable networks cooperate in a bid to cut through clutter.

BYLINE:  By Allison Fass 

 BODY:
WHILE weather can be mundane, it can also be dramatic, and in that vein two cable television networks are joining forces to promote special, related programs on both channels this month.
 The unusual joint venture involves the A&E Network, which is presenting "Shackleton," a two-part, four-hour movie about a famous expedition to the South Pole in 1914, and the Weather Channel, which is presenting a five-part, five-hour program titled "StormWeek," about severe weather conditions. 
 The joint cross-promotional campaign, with an estimated budget of $10 million, is indicative of efforts being made in the crowded cable television universe to attract viewers to special programming. It comes after media conglomerates like the Walt Disney Company, the News Corporation and Viacom Inc. have been using their expansive holdings to promote shows among their various properties. 
For instance, A&E, which is owned in part by the ABC unit of Disney, is rerunning the daytime talk show "The View" the day after it appears on ABC. A&E, which is also owned by the Hearst Corporation and the NBC division of General Electric, cross-promotes with a sibling, the History Channel.
"In this day and age, where competition is so great, networks can't isolate themselves," said Michael Mohamad, senior vice president for marketing at A&E in New York. "They're going to have to reach outside for -- I hate to say this, I'm not corny -- 'out-of-the-box' opportunities."
"Little bits and pieces of your audience are going to different places because there are so many different special-interest networks," he added. "Now, you really need to get your message out there as broadly as you can."
Executives at A&E and the Weather Channel said they recognized that because the two networks shared an audience of men and women ages 25 to 54, it would make sense to promote weather-related programming on both networks.
"Shackleton," which will be shown on Sunday and Monday, is a dramatization of the South Pole expedition led by Sir Ernest H. Shackleton, portrayed by Kenneth Branagh, in which he and his crew survived gales and ice floes that trapped and crushed his ship.
"StormWeek," which returned on Monday for a second year, focuses on weather extremes like tornadoes and blizzards. The episodes will include a new segment meant to take viewers into the eye of a storm; there will also be additional film on the Weather Channel Web site, weather.com.
Cross-promotion can also be cost-effective.
"We're in the middle of a media recession," said Steve Schiffman, executive vice president for marketing at the Weather Channel in Atlanta, which is owned by Landmark Communications. "It wasn't like we had inflated budgets where we had extra resources at our disposal to build awareness of various programming initiatives."
The cross-network campaign encourages viewers to tune in to both programs with a television commercial as well as efforts online that include banner ads and links between the Weather Channel site and the A&E site, www.AandE.com.
In addition, Paul Kocin, a Weather Channel winter-storm expert, will talk about the conditions Sir Ernest faced in "Making of Shackleton" on A&E, and Charles Sturridge, the writer and director of "Shackleton," will be interviewed on the Weather Channel's Web site.
The channels, which will also have independent campaigns for their programs, worked with the New York office of the GEM Group, owned by CSS Stellar, to ensure the promotion was fairly balanced. A banner ad on the Weather Channel's Web site, for example, is not equivalent to a banner ad on the A&E Web site because weather.com has far more unique users each month. Similarly, a 30-second spot is more valuable on A&E than on the Weather Channel.
The partnership between A&E and the Weather Channel was a long time in coming. Mr. Mohamad and Mr. Schiffman had talked about a similar effort a few years ago, when A&E was beginning "Horatio Hornblower," a film about an 18th-century British naval officer.
"The timing wasn't right," Mr. Mohamad said.
Then, last July, Mr. Mohamad and Mr. Schiffman attended a conference in San Francisco for the Cable and Telecommunications Association for Marketing and were seated next to each other at a dinner also attended by John Zamoiski, president at the GEM Entertainment unit of GEM.
Mr. Mohamad started talking about "Shackleton," Mr. Schiffman said, and "beautiful music happened" because the movie was so closely related to the weather. Soon afterward, executives from both networks held a meeting and conference call to start the project.
"It was like one big blind date," Mr. Schiffman said, adding that they exchanged e-mail addresses and phone numbers.
The two networks are discussing future cross-promotions and are open to similar partnerships with other networks.
Though they still track results like ratings to see how successful the cross-promotion is, the executives are pleased.
"We just had lunch last week," Mr. Mohamad said, "to congratulate ourselves."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A promotion for the exploration series "Shackleton" on the Web site of the A&E Network includes a link to the site of the Weather Channel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (91%); WEATHER (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%) TELEVISION; TELEVISION; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (83%); NEWS CORP (70%); VIACOM INC (69%); HEARST CORP (68%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: A&E CHANNEL; WEATHER CHANNEL 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (70%); NWS (ASX) (70%); VIA (NASDAQ) (69%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: FASS, ALLISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN); SHACKLETON (TV PROGRAM); STORMWEEK (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



73 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
When it comes to income inequality, more than just market forces are at work.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
NEARLY 50 years ago, Simon Kuznets, the father of national-income accounting and a Nobel laureate in economic science, predicted that income inequality would follow an inverted-U pattern over time -- "widening in the early phases of economic growth when the transition from the preindustrial to the industrial society was most rapid; becoming stabilized for a while; and then narrowing in the later phases."
 New research that updates and extends this classic work, however, turns the Kuznets curve on its head. 
 Income disparities seem to follow no automatic pattern. Instead, for long stretches the degree of inequality appears to result from norms and social policy, especially taxes, at least as much as from economic forces of supply and demand. In the United States, the Kuznets curve -- the trend in inequality over time -- is better described by a U shape than an inverted U. In Britain and France, the curve is more like an L. 
As Gary Fields of Cornell observed: "The Kuznets curve is neither a law nor even a central tendency. The pattern is that there is no pattern."
The latest blow to the Kuznets curve was struck by Thomas Piketty of Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, in Paris, and Emmanuel Saez of Harvard. In a study, "Income Inequality in the United States, 1913-1998" (available at www.nber.org), they provide estimates of the share of total income going to top earners. As did Kuznets, they calculated the share of total personal income earned by top income groups from tax records. Because only a fraction of citizens were required to pay taxes early in the century, they compute total income from other sources.
They found that the share of income going to the top 10 percent of families grew from 40 percent at the start of the 1920's, to 45 percent, and remained near that level throughout the Depression. The top 10 percent's share fell sharply at the beginning of America's involvement in World War II, from 44 percent in 1940, to 32 percent in 1944. 
The share of income going to the top 1 percent also fell a third from 1940 to 1944, to 11 percent from 16 percent. 
The sudden drop in inequality during World War II, though inconsistent with Kuznets's gradual process, is easy to explain: wage controls during the war compressed pay. What is puzzling is that the more equal distribution that emerged under the controls persisted for 30 years before inequality began to rise again in the late 1970's.
If wage controls artificially compressed market forces, one would have expected inequality to grow sharply when the controls were lifted. It did not. Indeed, the share of income going to the top 1 percent and top 0.1 percent drifted downward for 20 years after the war, before stabilizing for a decade or so and then surging in the 1980's and 1990's.
Why? Professors Piketty and Saez suggest that the new wage patterns established during the war were difficult to reverse, even with competitive forces pushing in the opposite direction.
They also discovered something quite unexpected about the composition of income received by the very rich. Before the 1940's, the wealthiest Americans earned the bulk of their income from returns on capital; now their primary source is wages and salaries. In 1916, for example, the top 0.01 percent of "tax units" earned 70 percent of their income from capital, 24 percent from business ventures and only 6 percent from wages. By 1998, wages and salaries accounted for 45 percent of the very top group's income; business activities, 33 percent; and return on capital, 22 percent.
Because capital's share of national income has been stable, this shift must involve a more equal ownership of capital. Professors Piketty and Saez argue that the shift came about because of progressive taxation on capital income. In 1931, the top marginal rate was 20 percent. The Roosevelt administration increased the top rate during the Depression, eventually to 91 percent in 1944, so that the wealthy would shoulder more of the financial burden of the war. Top rates remained high until the 1980's. Professors Piketty and Saez stress that capital taxation has a cumulative effect on top incomes because it reduces the net return on today's wealth, which generates tomorrow's wealth.
So today the rich are not so different from the rest of us after all: they work for a living, too.
But they earn a lot more money. In 2001, the average chief executive of an industrial company with approximately $500 million in sales was paid $1.9 million, according to the Towers Perrin Worldwide Total Remuneration Report. The average N.B.A. player will earn more than $4 million this season, and the average Major League Baseball player more than $2.1 million. 
After adjusting for inflation, salaries of chief executives grew about 6 percent a year in the 1980's and 90's, while those of basketball and baseball players grew more than 10 percent a year. Wage growth has been so strong at the high end that the top 1 percent of taxpayers have taken home 94 percent of the growth in total income since 1973.
Salaries at the top of the range seem to be particularly affected by prevailing norms and policy decisions. The pay of American chief executives is three times that of their counterparts in similar-size companies in Britain and four times those in France and Germany, according to Towers Perrin. The average chief executive is paid 24 times what the average production worker gets in the United States, but in Germany, only 8 times as much. It is hard to argue that their work or economic circumstances are so different to justify such large pay differences. 
Further, Kevin Hallock of the University of Illinois has found that chief executives are paid more in the United States if they sit on one another's boards, suggesting that buddies matter.
The pay of professional athletes has grown rapidly in part because public subsidies for stadiums increase team revenues, and barriers to entry prevent competition.
So the capital-rich rentier class has been replaced by handsomely paid executives, athletes and entrepreneurs.
But Professor Saez predicts, "If the estate tax goes away and top income rates are cut, a new generation of rentiers should reappear down the road." 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Top Earners Earn More"Income inequality rose, dropped sharply and then surged in the last century. In the 80's and 90's, top income groups earned an increasingly larger share of the total income in the United States. 1998: 41.4% Graph tracking the income inequality since the 1920's. Share of total personal income earned by top 10 percent (Source: "Income Inequality in the United States, 1913-1998" by Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez) Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in March"ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks sold in the United States, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracking the number of cars and light trucks (minivans, sport utility vechiles and pickups) sold in the United States. INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States. Cars2002: 741,6432001: 789,312CHANGE*: -2.6% Light trucks2002: 772,5062001: 804,290CHANGE*: -0.4 Total2002: 1,514,1492001: 1,593,602CHANGE*: -1.5 CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, in rank order according to 2001 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 181,181CHANGE*: -11.9%MARKET SHARE: 24.4% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 125,736CHANGE*: -11.3MARKET SHARE: 17.0 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 87,288CHANGE*: + 4.6MARKET SHARE: 11.8 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 70,254CHANGE*: - 7.7MARKET SHARE: 9.5 Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 74,750CHANGE*: + 2.2MARKET SHARE: 10.1 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 51,202CHANGE*: +25.1MARKET SHARE: 6.9 *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe top-selling vehicles and changes from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 78,977CHANGE: - 0.4% Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 51,786CHANGE: -18.9 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 37,798CHANGE: + 7.6 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 35,457CHANGE: + 8.0 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 32,663CHANGE: - 7.9 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 32,324CHANGE: -11.0 Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 32,171CHANGE: + 1.0 Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 27,427CHANGE: + 1.9 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 25,502CHANGE: - 2.9 Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 23,016CHANGE: +20.2 Chevrolet CavalierNUMBER SOLD: 21,991CHANGE: + 3.8 Ford FocusNUMBER SOLD: 21,681CHANGE: -13.5 LIGHT-TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, in rank order according to 2001 sales. Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 198,558CHANGE*: -11.7%MARKET SHARE: 25.7% G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 234,630CHANGE*: + 8.9MARKET SHARE: 30.4 Daimler-Chrysler$SNUMBER SOLD: 162,666CHANGE*: - 5.1MARKET SHARE: 21.1 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 69,740CHANGE*: + 3.5MARKET SHARE: 9.0 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 25,030CHANGE*: - 3.0MARKET SHARE: 3.2 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 34,459CHANGE*: +30.3MARKET SHARE: 4.5 +Includes Volvo and Rover sales.$SIncludes Mercedes-Benz sales.(Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WORLD WAR II (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FAMILY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B; PIKETTY, THOMAS (PROF); SAEZ, EMMANUEL (PROF); KUZNETS, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (88%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



74 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
UBS PaineWebber to Settle A Pension Fund Dispute
UBS PaineWebber has agreed to pay $10.3 million to settle a two-year dispute with Nashville, which had accused the firm of charging excessive fees for managing its pension fund, understating the risks in the fund's portfolio and misleading it about recommended investment strategies.
 Central to the dispute was PaineWebber's role as exclusive investment consultant to the $1.4 billion fund and the manner in which it was paid for its services. Page C4. 

Kirch Teeters on Edge of Bankruptcy
The Kirch Group, Germany's second-largest media company run by Leo Kirch, left, teetered on the edge of bankruptcy after rescue talks with bankers and investors, including Rupert Murdoch, broke down. A bankruptcy filing would shake up Germany's entire media industry and would have important political implications. World Business, Section W.

Microsoft Case Revisits Key Issue
The hearings over Microsoft's antitrust case returned to what has been the most hotly contested question since the government filed its suit four years ago: can a court tell the software maker how to design its own code? C4.

Microsoft's president and chief operating officer, Richard Belluzo, will step down. C4.

A British Group Reprimands Pfizer
A trade group representing British pharmaceutical companies has reprimanded Pfizer for promoting several medicines for unapproved uses and marketing another drug before it received government approval. C5.

Gas Group Had President's Ear
President Bush signed an executive order last year that closely resembles a written recommendation given to the administration two months earlier by the American Gas Association, according to documents released by the Bush administration. A18.

Philip Morris Tries to Sell Miller
Philip Morris has put Miller Brewing on the block for about $5 billion, shaving $1 billion off its initial asking price, enough to draw South African Breweries back into negotiations, people close to the talks said. The companies have held intermittent talks for several years. C2.

Dow, Nasdaq and S.& P. Drop 1%
Stocks fell to their lowest level in more than a month. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 115.42 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,198.29. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 11.36 points, or 1 percent, to 1,125.40. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 20.05 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,784.35. C7.

Crude Oil Ends Its Five-Day Slide
Crude oil fell for the first time in six sessions yesterday after the American Petroleum Institute reported that United States inventories had their biggest weekly gain in 11 months. Crude oil for May delivery fell 15 cents, to $27.56 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices were up about 8 percent from a week ago as violence between Israel and the Palestinians added to concerns that Middle East supplies might be disrupted. C7.

Services Expands at Slower Pace
Services, the biggest part of the economy, expanded in March at a slower pace than the previous month, a survey found. C13.

Former Economic Czar Is Arrested
Domingo Cavallo, who as the all-powerful minister of the economy was the architect both of Argentina's rapid economic growth in the 1990's and its collapse late last year, was arrested in Buenos Aires on suspicion of involvement in "aggravated contraband." A3.

No Pattern to Income Inequality
Income disparities seem to follow no automatic pattern. Over time, the degree of inequality appears to result from norms and social policy, especially taxes, at least as much as from economic forces of supply and demand. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A headline in the Business Digest column yesterday about crude oil prices misstated their recent movement. They ended a five-day rally on Wednesday, not a slide.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,198.29 DOWN 115.42Nasdaq composite -- 1,784.35 DOWN 20.0510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.27% DOWN 0.07The euro -- $0.8810 UP 0.0021The dollar -- 132.71 yen DOWN 0.68 Graph tracking the price of crude oil per barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); COMMODITIES TRADING (70%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); BREWERIES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); PFIZER INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



75 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 887 words

PERSON: JACKIE MAXWELL 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Union Maid? Actually a Nanny, Organizing

BYLINE:  By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

 BODY:
JACKIE MAXWELL, hands shoved deep into her jean pockets, is telling the story sitting down. That's a good thing, because she is truly peeved as she recounts what she heard from a fellow nanny. The nanny, a Salvadoran woman who accompanied a little boy to a play date in the home where Ms. Maxwell works, mentioned how a former employer used to lock her in an apartment basement at night, not letting her out until the next morning, not even offering a bed.
 As she recalls the story, Ms. Maxwell is getting more furious by the minute. But with 22 years in the business, she's heard and seen many things. 
 On this morning, she's working at her other part-time job, that of Cain-raising advocate for Domestic Workers United, a fledgling coalition in the city that wants basic labor rights for housekeepers, nannies and companions to the elderly. The group shares space in an airy four-story building, a former convent in the Bronx. Ms. Maxwell told the Salvadoran woman about a meeting on April 6 in which workers would testify before City Council members about abuses.
"It's like holding her prisoner," says Ms. Maxwell, whose wide, freckled face is framed by close-cropped gray hair. "This is like the 20th story I've heard of how people who employ domestic workers use it as a power surge to treat them like a slave."
Ms. Maxwell, 52, recently presided over a news conference on the steps of City Hall. She has become one of the group's most outspoken leaders, yet she's an anomaly. She's the only African-American in an 80-member group of immigrant women from the Caribbean and Latin and Asian countries. She reflects a quiet shift in the industry's demographics over the last 15 or so years. As the civil rights movement has opened other doors for African-American women, immigrants have largely taken their place.
Dressed in black jeans and a black sweater, Ms. Maxwell has a quiet air about her, but she is far from shy. She has a robust laugh and is quite a talker.
The conversation turns to "Gone With the Wind" and Mammy, that stereotypical image of black servitude played by Hattie McDaniel. "It put knots in my stomach," Ms. Maxwell says, squirming, her face scrunched. It's hard to imagine anyone pulling a Scarlett O'Hara on her.
Ms. Maxwell gets downright explosive when she talks about the industry she wants to change. She is trying to win support for a bill that was introduced last week in the City Council that would require employment agencies to tell families hiring workers about their legal obligations to pay minimum wage and overtime, and to follow a code of conduct.
I WANT things to be better for the women who come after us," she says in a rush of words. "I just feel I can be an active tool to express their grievances and concerns. In this industry, we all suffer the same problems."
Ms. Maxwell, who is single and has two grown children, was raised in Brownsville, Brooklyn, by a grandmother who was a housekeeper. She moved there after her father, a police detective, and her mother, a department store cashier, separated when she was 8. She says her grandmother worked very hard, never complaining.
"In that era," she says, "it might have been a lot tougher for her, but she just accepted it."
Ms. Maxwell, who now lives in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, has no complaints about the job she has held for nine years. She likes her employers on Roosevelt Island, a college economics professor and a foundation executive. She is paid $10 an hour for a 25-hour work week to watch over two children, ages 5 and 8. Even so, Ms. Maxwell says she has learned never to be complacent. "Working in this industry, I'm always vulnerable to losing my job. If I walked in now and my employer said, 'I no longer need you,' I'd have nothing."
Ms. Maxwell can afford to go public. She's a citizen, unlike many workers, who fear retaliation from employers and deportation. At news conferences, Ms. Maxwell is often the first to pipe up. She's unafraid to confront politicians.
"She's fearless," says Ai-jen Poo, a labor organizer who has no domestic work experience. "She's not afraid of anything. Nothing."
The two women are sunk deep in donated floral couches in "the chilling room," a spacious area where people hang out between meetings in a building that is also the home of the Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence.
The chat shifts to the legacy of racism permeating the industry. "People feel it's more appropriate for women of color to be doing this work," Ms. Poo says. "They still see domestic workers as this product that you purchase as part of a lifestyle, and that has a lot to do with racism and sexism in our culture."
"Yeah," Ms. Maxwell agrees. "They don't see you as thinking or feeling. In fact, you have no life because your life is what they want it to be."
In her advocacy role, Ms. Maxwell works the telephone and the fax machine, reminding members of meetings, setting up appointments with politicians. She also sets out on foot to parks and playgrounds, handing out booklets to workers on how they can protect themselves.
"It gives me joy," she says with a sunny smile. "I feel like I can speak for them because I have nothing to fear. I feel like I'm coming out again. That's what my daughter said, that I'm like a bird being set free. My kids are grown and I can focus on myself. I've found my niche."

GRAPHIC: Photo: JACKIE MAXWELL (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); OVERTIME (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CITIES (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (86%); WOMEN (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); ETHICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%) DOMESTIC SERVICE; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; OVERTIME; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: ;DOMESTIC WORKERS UNITED 

RICHARDSON, LYNDA; MAXWELL, JACKIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (68%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



76 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

U.S. to Press Harder For Mideast Peace Deal
The Bush administration promised quicker and deeper involvement in searching for a political solution to Israeli-Palestinian violence, perhaps even before the fighting ends. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said for the first time that Israel's expanding military operations in the West Bank should not be open-ended. He also said he was open to meeting with Israeli and Palestinian leaders next week. A1

Israeli tanks and armored vehicles entered Nablus, giving Israel control of all major Palestinian-ruled centers in the West Bank except Hebron. A1

Egypt, Israel's largest and most important peace partner, said that it was suspending "all contacts," but that it would keep open a diplomatic channel to deal with the crisis. A12

Argentine Ex-Minister Arrested
Domingo Cavallo, who resigned as minister of the economy in December, was arrested on suspicion of involvement in illegal arms deals during the early 1990's. Some said he was being made a scapegoat for the country's economic crisis. A3

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A14

Afghans Say Plotters Sought To Topple Government
Security officials in Kabul said they had arrested hundreds of political opponents, thwarting a conspiracy to mount a bombing campaign whose targets were the government of Hamid Karzai and the former king, Mohammad Zahir Shah. Afghan officials said the conspiracy was linked to a warlord, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. A1

Arrest May Deter Attacks
The F.B.I. director said the arrest of Abu Zubaydah, the Al Qaeda field commander, would help deter terror attacks. Officials said evidence seized in raids in Pakistan showed that the network was intent on launching a new strike at the United States. A14

Prisoner Says He Is American
The Pentagon said that a prisoner from Afghanistan being held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, had told American officials that he was born in Louisiana, and that the Justice Department had found a birth certificate that seemed to corroborate his claim. A14

Bomb Detectors Ordered
The Transportation Security Administration has ordered hundreds of machines that screen luggage for bombs, two equipment makers said, but not nearly as many as it will need. A14

NATIONAL A16-21

New York Archdiocese Revises Sex Abuse Policy
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York gave the Manhattan district attorney a list of all its priests who had been accused in the past of the sexual abuse of minors. It also spelled out guidelines for evaluating new accusations and backed off an earlier policy that it would only report cases to prosecutors with the consent of the accuser. A1

Lawsuits were filed in Florida and Oregon naming the Vatican and the pope as among those responsible for moving pedophile priests between countries as well as dioceses. A21

Charity Spending Rises
More than 56,000 foundations in the United States increased spending by 5.1 percent, to $29 billion, in 2001, according to a projection. That level of growth would be less robust than that of foundation outlays in 2000, but it was far better than expectations. A21

Cincinnati Racial Profiling Deal
Negotiators for the city, the police, the Ohio American Civil Liberties Union and black community leaders reached a tentative settlement on revamping police methods of dealing with the public to avoid profiling. A16

Wider Immigration Enforcement
A Justice Department legal ruling cleared the way for Attorney General John Ashcroft to declare that state and local police departments can enforce federal immigration laws. A19

F.B.I. Workers Fail Checks
A handful of F.B.I. employees with access to classified information did not pass polygraph exams administered as part of a stepped-up security program prompted by the arrest last year of a senior agent, Robert P. Hanssen, as a Russian spy. A18

Bush Welfare Plans Faulted
Many of President Bush's welfare proposals are not realistic and would encourage states to place poor people in menial, unproductive jobs to meet stringent new work requirements, officials say in a survey by the National Governors' Association. A18

Briefings, Not Testimony
Tom Ridge, the homeland security director, said he would brief two House committees in an effort to strike a balance between the White House's refusal to have him testify before Congress and lawmakers' insistence on questioning him. A19

Judge Orders Hearing Opened
A federal judge in Detroit ruled that an immigration hearing for a suspect in the government's terror sweep could not be closed to reporters. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

New Mayor's Way Includes Reviewing Giuliani's Deals
The Bloomberg administration has moved to reverse or stall deals made late in the Giuliani administration, including agreements to build new baseball stadiums, the moving of the Museum of the City of New York to the Tweed Courthouse, a proposed Brooklyn Navy Yard lease and a decision to abolish the Vacancy Control Board, which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani used to exercise tight control over hiring by all city agencies. A1

Shooting at St. Patrick's
An unidentified, distraught man shot himself in the cathedral's rectory after threatening a priest, the police said. He was in critical condition. B1

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS E1-10

Grammys Return to New York
The next awards ceremony will be held in Manhattan on Feb. 23, 2003, after four years in Los Angeles. E1

OBITUARIES B8

EDUCATION

Mayor's Plan in Jeopardy
Assembly Democrats and Mayor Bloomberg appear to be at an impasse that may jeopardize the mayor's plan to take control of the New York City school system this year. B1

Mexico Ex-Leader to Yale
Former President Ernesto Zedillo will become director of the Yale Center for the Study of Globalization, which focuses on economic, cultural and political interdependence among nations. B5

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Challenging a Taboo
First cousins can have children together without a great risk of birth defects or genetic disease, scientists say, contradicting widely held beliefs. A1

Cancer Test Called a Failure
Two studies found that a screening test to find a childhood cancer, neuroblastoma, missed deadly tumors while spotting harmless ones. A20

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Protecting Enron Investors
The federal government moved to protect the interests of Enron investors and retirement-plan participants as parties in the company's bankruptcy proceedings maneuvered to lay claim to Enron's dwindling assets. C1

Lawmakers and bankruptcy-law specialists want Congress to close a loophole in laws in Texas and Florida that allow former Enron executives to shield millions in assets by shifting money into luxury homes. C1

Scrutiny of Adelphia's Troubles
Longtime cable industry analysts said careful investors should not have been surprised by adverse disclosures concerning Adelphia Communications, the sixth-largest cable television company, whose shares fell another 7 percent yesterday. C1

Warning From Bristol-Myers
Bristol-Myers Squibb, citing months of stockpiling by wholesalers who now need to reduce inventories, said sales and earnings for the first quarter and the year would be significantly lower than investors were expecting. It also said that projections of drug sales in the United States were "dramatically off-track." C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Nature overrun; death threats in Brooklyn; Latin America's muzzled press; better later than late.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); RELIGION (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (88%); ARRESTS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); POLITICS (78%); COUPS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); EVIDENCE (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (66%); AL-QAEDA (64%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); SEX SCANDALS (60%); CHILD ABUSE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); HOLY SEE (79%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



77 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Flying Shoes, Health Care And Politics

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
At one point in the interview, he removed both shoes and chucked them halfway across his expansive office as he complained about a newspaper article that portrayed a $1.8 billion health care bill he rushed through the Legislature, which included money for raises for Mr. Rivera's union members, as a reward for Mr. Rivera's union's endorsing the governor. The bill, Mr. Pataki asserted, was part of his effort to improve health care in New York.
-- from an interview with
Gov. George E. Pataki in 
yesterday's New York Times
 IN other words, Mr. Pataki argues that the health care measure is not political. This is something the voter should decide, based on the facts. Here are some facts: 
 It is an election year, Mr. Pataki is expected to seek a third term, he is a Republican and New Yorkers are increasingly voting Democratic. In January, Mr. Pataki rammed a health care bill through the Legislature that includes raises for thousands of health care workers. Most are members of 1199/S.E.I.U., a largely black, Latino and Democratic union led by Dennis Rivera, a Democrat credited with being able to deliver votes.
Last month, Mr. Rivera endorsed Mr. Pataki, citing his commitment to health care. It was not a thank you, Mr. Rivera insisted.
Some additional facts: The new health care initiative will, the governor's Health Department estimates, cost about $3.5 billion over more than three years. Of that, $1.8 billion is for the recruitment and retention of health workers, which means salary increases, benefits and other programs.
With New York still in recession, where is the $3.5 billion supposed to come from? The most money is supposed to come from Washington -- $1.8 million from Washington if Congress raises its contribution to Medicaid as the state has asked. The second-largest source is Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield -- $1.1 billion from its conversion to a for-profit company.
Critics cite a few fundamental problems. The chance of Washington increasing its contribution to Medicaid is next to nil, lawmakers say. And the money from Empire is a classic one-shot: three years and it's gone, leaving the state with (or in) a deep hole because the costs don't go away because the money to pay for them does.
Nor is this use of the Empire money what the insurer or many health care advocates have long recommended. They wanted New York to emulate other states and use the conversion money to create a foundation, a permanent endowment for the poor and uninsured. 
Based on models in California and elsewhere, the $1.1 billion could have been invested and the investments could have yielded at least $50 million a year in perpetuity, Consumers Union has estimated. 
The governor's new package does include modest health programs: expanded Medicaid coverage for disabled recipients who work and for breast and cervical treatments; more prescription drug coverage for the elderly; less red tape in the application process for Medicaid and other government health insurance programs. And, as Mr. Pataki notes in those state-financed television ads in which he stars, he has worked to broaden health coverage for the poor.
BUT the state still has more than three million uninsured residents, 600,000 of them children. A well-endowed foundation could have helped reduce that number, but it was never formed; the governor's plan provides just $50 million for a small foundation, created under pressure from health care advocates and with no clear mandate. 
"It's the biggest taking of nonprofit assets by a state government seen anywhere," Charles Bell, programs director of Consumers Union, said of the anticipated $1.1 billion in conversion money. "New York is about to miss a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to expand health coverage for the uninsured." 
Instead, at Mr. Pataki's behest and with the full cooperation of legislative leaders (also up for re-election), New York is spending most of that generous windfall on a politically potent labor force, passing up the chance to create a new and permanent health care fund, and is relying on Washington dollars that are not expected to materialize.
Might make someone want to throw a shoe or two for sure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ENDOWMENTS (67%); INSURANCE (66%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (81%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (81%)

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; RIVERA, DENNIS; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



78 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Man Is Charged With Strangling His Uncle 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: SOUTH PLAINFIELD, N.J., April 3 

 BODY:
A 19-year-old man has been charged with strangling his uncle, a well-known wrestling coach and civic leader, during a robbery here on Sunday night, the police said today.
 The teenager, Jonathan Moorman, fled in a stolen car with two heavy jugs full of coins after killing his uncle, Roger Cassett, 59, and leaving him bound with electric cord and gagged with duct tape in the den of his home here, the police said. Although robbery was Mr. Moorman's motive, the police said, he did not take an estimated $300 in cash from Mr. Cassett's pocket. 
 Mr. Moorman was charged with murder.
For relatives and friends of Mr. Cassett, that added an element of oddity to what many called the "senseless and tragic" death of a man who for nearly three decades had coached youth wrestling in nearby Plainfield. A former two-time state wrestling champion as a bantam weight during his high school years, Mr. Cassett was himself a master of the discipline he urged on his teams.
"I can't say what drove him, but he was driven," said Martin Cox, a friend of Mr. Cassett's and his colleague in youth recreation efforts. "He was focused and determined."
Mr. Moorman was arrested late Monday by the police, who said they found the stolen car parked around the corner from the house here where Mr. Moorman lived with his father and grandmother. He is unemployed and had recently been released from jail, according to relatives of Mr. Cassett and The Associated Press, which cited court records. He was carrying jugs of coins when arrested, the police said.
Mr. Moorman was arraigned Tuesday in Middlesex County Superior Court before Judge Frederick DeVesa, who ordered him held on $750,000 bail. An assistant Middlesex County prosecutor, Thomas Capsak, said his office would present the case to a grand jury within the month.
According to the police and relatives, Mr. Cassett had returned to his small saltbox house here on Sunday night after watching a movie at a relative's home in Plainfield when he was accosted by an intruder who tied him up and gagged him in a chair. The intruder was interrupted by the arrival of Mr. Cassett's 80-year-old stepfather, Raymond Dutton, who lives with him. The police said Mr. Moorman bound Mr. Dutton as well, strangled Mr. Cassett and then fled in Mr. Dutton's car.
Roger Cassett Jr., the victim's son, said that as the patriarch of a widely scattered family, his father held annual picnics that Mr. Moorman might have attended. Everyone who knew the elder Mr. Cassett knew of the jugs of coins he added to daily and which he liked to point out to others as a measure of his personal discipline and determination.
Donald Wynn, director of the Plainfield recreation programs where Mr. Cassett had long been a volunteer wrestling coach until three years ago, said that same intensity helped Mr. Cassett persuade good black athletes to choose his wrestling programs over football and basketball, sports that are more glamorous and popular in urban America.
"He was tough," Mr. Wynn said. "He was strict and commanded that things be done his way."
His son, sitting in the room where his father was found, had only to look around on the wall to be reminded of his father's principles. There were plaques with sayings by Frederick Douglass as well as the coaches Vince Lombardi and John Wooden.
"He had his own Web site called Roger-Man-With-a-Mission.com which carried some of his favorite sayings," Mr. Cassett recalled. "That's what he was, a man with a mission." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); ROBBERY (90%); WRESTLING (90%); VEHICLE THEFT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); ARRESTS (78%); MEN (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); BAIL (65%); JUDGES (64%); STEPPARENTS (50%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: MOORMAN, JONATHAN; CASSETT, ROGER; SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) SOUTH PLAINFIELD (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



79 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Service Sector Slowed in March 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3 

 BODY:
Services, the biggest part of the economy, expanded in March at a slower pace than the previous month, a survey of purchasing executives found today, adding to evidence of a gradual rebound from recession.
 The Institute for Supply Management's index of retail, financial services, construction and other nonmanufacturing companies fell to 57.3 last month from 58.7 in February. 
A reading above 50 indicates growth. A companion survey of factory executives this week showed two months of expansion. 
 "We do have an economic recovery, but this is a recovery that is not yet showing evidence of turning into an economic boom," said John Silvia, chief economist at the Wachovia Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. 
The new-orders index showed a slower pace of expansion. While demand increased at retailers, consumers may have reached their limit after a spending spree in the last quarter of 2001 and the first two months of this year. 
Investors read the index by the Institute for Supply Management, formerly known as the National Association of Purchasing Management, as evidence that the Federal Reserve might wait until midyear to increase the rate for overnight loans between banks. The central bank cut the benchmark rate 11 times last year to stimulate growth.
The purchasing executives' index of prices paid for raw materials exceeded 50 for the first time in nine months, reflecting demand for computer memory, copper, polyvinyl chloride pipes and furniture, and price increases for fuel. The factory index earlier this week also showed more manufacturers paying higher prices for the first time since February 2001.
Analysts had expected the total index to drop to 57. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RETAIL BANKING (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (73%); POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); PLASTIC PIPES & FITTINGS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%) INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



80 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Feud Put Aside, Grammy Awards Will Return to New York Next Year 

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES

 BODY:
The next Grammy Awards ceremony will be held in New York City on Feb. 23, 2003, after four years in Los Angeles. The announcement was made yesterday by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Michael Greene, the president and chief executive of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, at a news conference in the Theater at Madison Square Garden. 
 The ceremony will be televised by CBS from the Garden arena. "It couldn't be better for New York City, and it couldn't be better for the Grammys," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said at the news conference: "We've started to recover from Sept. 11, but we're still clearly on the mend. We're still looking for support, for tourism dollars and for symbols that the country and the world stand behind our city. In other words, New York always wants the Grammys, but this year New York needs the Grammys."
He added, "It pumps millions of dollars into the local economy, money this city, as the mayor well knows, could really use."
More than 100 other events, including school programs, performances, exhibits and parties, take place around the awards ceremony. The recording academy, which gives the awards, estimates that having the event in the city brings $35 million to $40 million to local businesses.
"Welcome back," Mr. Schumer said. "The red carpet is waiting."
The 2003 broadcast, which will be the 45th annual Grammy Awards, will move from the Grammys' longtime Wednesday-night slot to a Sunday night. The Academy Awards shifted to Sunday, the night that has the highest number of homes watching television, in 1999.
"The biggest event of the year for us is the Grammy Awards," said Leslie Moonves, president of CBS Television, adding that he expected the move to Sunday to "broaden our base."
The Grammys left New York after a widely publicized feud in 1998 between Mr. Greene and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Mr. Greene reportedly lost his temper and threatened a mayoral aide, an accusation he has denied. 
Relations with the Giuliani administration had improved after 1998, Mr. Greene said. He cited programs sponsored by the recording academy in city schools and music-therapy and mentor programs organized by the academy after Sept. 11.
"We never left New York," Mr. Greene said. "We have been here the entire time with our folks." Until 1998 the Grammys had generally alternated between New York and Los Angeles, and yesterday Mr. Greene called New York "our other hometown."
Mr. Moonves said that after Sept. 11 Mr. Greene had considered moving the 2002 awards to New York, but it was too late to change plans. Mr. Greene said that he had asked Mr. Giuliani to present an award at this year's ceremony alongside Tony Bennett but that the former mayor had said he was busy.
Madison Square Garden and the city had been negotiating with the recording academy for 18 months to return the awards to New York, executives said. But Mr. Greene suggested that the attitude of the new city administration had been a factor. 
Mr. Bloomberg called Mr. Greene the week after he was elected, Mr. Greene said, "in the most humble of tones." Mr. Greene continued, "With a passion, with a spirit, and as I say, a humility, we talked about the importance of bringing the Grammys back to New York."
The deciding factor that has kept the awards in Los Angeles for four years, Mr. Greene said, has been the availability of the Staples Center there, an auditorium that was designed to accommodate the Grammy Awards, from its stage elevators to its seating. Among other things, the Staples Center has 300 luxury suites that bring in $30,000 each for the awards show; Madison Square Garden only has 100 luxury suites. Mr. Greene said it cost an extra $2.5 million to produce the Grammys in New York rather than Los Angeles.
The 1998 awards were also marred by security breaches, including a stage crasher during Bob Dylan's performance, but executives said those problems did not contribute to the Grammys' absence from New York.
At the news conference Mr. Greene and Seth Abraham, president of Madison Square Garden/Radio City Entertainment, both said that the arena's unions had been cooperative in making it possible to present the awards in New York. "They understood the importance of bringing it to New York," Mr. Abraham said. 
With its elaborate sets and production numbers, the Grammy telecast requires 10 days of preparation for the arena. That means that Madison Square Garden's basketball and hockey teams, the Knicks and the Rangers, will have to stay on the road during that time.
At today's news conference, a Les Paul electric guitar with a scene of Sept. 11 painted on it by a firefighter was presented to the mayor by the singer Marc Anthony and Thomas D. Mottola, chairman and chief executive of Sony Music Entertainment. Mr. Bloomberg said he would donate it to an auction that would benefit the fire department's widows and orphans fund.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tries out a Les Paul guitar at a news conference yesterday announcing the Grammys' return to New York. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TOURISM (54%); MUSIC THERAPY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF RECORDING ARTS & SCIENCES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); LESLIE MOONVES (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



81 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor And His Firm Use This Card 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
During his first address to the City Council in January, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that he was so pleased that American Express was returning to its New York headquarters that he was urging New Yorkers to use only their American Express cards.
 And yesterday, his company, Bloomberg L.P., sent its employees an e-mail message saying that "Bloomberg is switching to the American Express Corporate Card." (The company has been using Diners Club, whose headquarters are in Chicago.) 
 There was no connection between the speech and the switch, said Christine Taylor, spokeswoman for Bloomberg L.P., an information services company that Mr. Bloomberg founded in 1981. It now employs more than 8,000 people.
Ms. Taylor said the company decided to switch to American Express before Mr. Bloomberg became mayor, a move based on where the cards are accepted, not where the companies are based. She said that the mayor had not made the decision.
The saga of the mayor and the card he will not leave home without began in January when, in his state of the city address Mr. Bloomberg praised the chairman of American Express, Kenneth I. Chenault, for pledging to return to the company's headquarters in Lower Manhattan.
"I've started to use only my American Express card after Ken made that commitment," Mr. Bloomberg said, sounding a bit like Karl Malden in those old television ads, "and I urge you to do it, too."
That unusual product placement was just another moment as the city adjusted to being run by a billionaire businessman, and a billionaire businessman adjusted to being mayor. Mr. Bloomberg said later it was all just a joke.
The mayor's aides have said that he will follow directives from the city's Conflicts of Interest Board. Last year, Mr. Bloomberg announced that he was stepping down from a management role in his company. He has also announced that the company would not accept tax breaks from the city in exchange for a promise to stay in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); HIJACKING (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (69%); TRENDS (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (94%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (92%); DINERS CLUB INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; BLOOMBERG LP 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (58%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



82 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: Last Acts of the Giuliani Era Stall in Bloomberg's City Hall 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
In the three months since Rudolph W. Giuliani left City Hall, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his administration have quietly changed the way the city does business, reviewing several complicated deals that were completed or left lingering in the waning days of the Giuliani administration. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has also adopted a new management style at City Hall, evidenced perhaps most starkly in a decision, disclosed by city officials last night, to abolish the Vacancy Control Board, a panel that Mr. Giuliani used to exercise tight control over hiring by all city agencies. 
Administration officials would not discuss the reasoning behind the decision to disband the board, which had existed since the Abraham D. Beame administration. It was not clear whether the shift was intended to reflect Mr. Bloomberg's hands-off management philosophy or to curtail what critics had charged was patronage. It was also not known how hiring will now be controlled. 
But the decision follows a series of moves to reverse or stall deals made in the final months by the Giuliani administration, including agreements to build new baseball stadiums and a plan to move a museum into the Tweed Courthouse. 
Just this week, Mr. Bloomberg said he would kill a deal to sell three city-owned buildings near the United Nations, scuttling a contract brokered more than a year ago that was strongly supported by Mr. Giuliani.
Mr. Bloomberg's press secretary, Edward Skyler, said the new administration was not aiming to undo Mr. Giuliani's actions. "None of these decisions are part of any systematic review of the policies made by the previous mayor," he said. "Rather they are a reflection of changing needs and priorities in difficult times."
But other deals are coming under scrutiny. Among them is a proposed lease of city land at the Brooklyn Navy Yard to Joseph Spitzer, a developer and major Giuliani political supporter, who hopes to build one million square feet of commercial space. 
Although lease negotiations were approved in mid-December, the deal may already be in trouble. Mr. Spitzer has not secured an anchor tenant for the project, and financing for the project is still in the works, with a sizable payment due on the lease at the end of this month. 
The land in question is a prime parcel at the Navy Yard, an area that the city has long sought to redevelop. Supporters say the deal could bring hundreds of jobs to a neighborhood that lost its manufacturing base decades ago. Critics question if Mr. Spitzer got a sweetheart arrangement. 
Another long-planned deal benefiting Mr. Spitzer was not left to chance. On Dec. 31, the Giuliani administration closed the sale of the old Schaefer Brewery site in Williamsburg, where Mr. Spitzer and several partners plan to build 350 new housing units. 
These two Brooklyn deals illustrate how even with the burden of overseeing the recovery at ground zero, which required giving daily briefings to the White House, Mr. Giuliani worked with purposeful urgency up to his last moment in office. 
"It was the whole philosophy of you don't pull up at first base, you run through the bag," said one high-ranking Giuliani aide. 
On the morning of his last day as mayor, Mr. Giuliani drove himself to City Hall in a Police Department Humvee. The ride in the multipurpose military vehicle was a lark, but it was also symbolic: Mr. Giuliani was as hard-charging on his final day in office as he was on his first. 
Mr. Giuliani began that last day with live appearances on the morning television programs, followed by his customary staff meeting precisely at 8 a.m. The only nod to the end of his term was that each aide was given a few moments to speak about what an honor it was to work with him.
Otherwise, the meeting was all business, including a last-ditch effort to reach a deal on a new headquarters for the New York Stock Exchange and preparations for the New Year's festivities in Times Square that night. Mr. Giuliani even insisted on releasing citywide crime statistics one last time.
Some of the final efforts by Mr. Giuliani are now well known. From making appointments to maneuvers involving the Stock Exchange, these ventures in the administration's final weeks represented a microcosm of Mr. Giuliani's eight years in office, with each effort placed in the hands of a member of his tight-knit cadre of loyal aides. 
Deputy Mayor Robert M. Harding struggled to reach a deal for a new headquarters for the New York Stock Exchange, with Mr. Giuliani vowing to announce it even at 5 p.m. on Dec. 31. Ultimately, the clock ran out. Joseph J. Lhota, the deputy mayor for operations, supervised transition issues. Deputy Mayor Anthony P. Coles handled the arrangements on Mr. Giuliani's archives and dealt with a huge push by the Bechtel Corporation for control of work at ground zero. 
Dennison Young Jr., the mayor's counsel and a close adviser, oversaw appointments. Mr. Young was also working with Michael Hess, another confidant, to set up Giuliani Partners, the consulting firm that now employs much of Mr. Giuliani's inner circle. 
The final weeks actually saw the return to City Hall of several former loyal aides. Cristyne Lategano-Nicholas, the former deputy chief of staff and communications director, who left to become president of NYC & Company, worked on post-Sept. 11 economic recovery issues. John Dyson, the former deputy mayor for economic development, oversaw the final details of the agreement to move the Museum of the City of New York to the Tweed Courthouse, a deal that Mr. Bloomberg has now quashed in favor of moving the Board of Education and a school into the building.
"There was no difference in level of intensity in the last three weeks than there was in the first three weeks of the administration," said Mr. Lhota, the former deputy mayor. "It was a conviction on the part of the mayor and his senior staff that the mayor was elected to turn around the city of New York. There is no doubt in my mind that he worked up until 11:59:59 on Dec 31." 
Mr. Giuliani was not the only one racing to get things done. Baseball officials were equally intent on closing a stadium deal before the mayor, a huge fan, left office. Mr. Spitzer was just as intent on his deals. 
Several aides said Mr. Bloomberg's victory in the mayoral race, secured in no small part with the help of Mr. Giuliani's endorsement, had actually alleviated a substantial amount of pressure at City Hall. Had Mark Green, the Democrat and a longtime enemy of Mr. Giuliani, beaten Mr. Bloomberg, these aides said, Mr. Giuliani would have sought to handcuff him. 
"We could have done the stadium deal," one top aide closely involved in the negotiations said. "We would have created an L.L.C., funded it, gone to Albany and got it certified, and it would have been done. But Rudy said: 'I am not going to hamper Bloomberg. I trust him to use his judgment. At least he'll have an open mind.' " 
Mr. Skyler, the spokesman, said any differences between the two teams reflected natural changes between different administrations. "Mayor Bloomberg believes that Rudy Giuliani left this city in much better shape than he found it and he intends to build on those successes," Mr. Skyler said. "There will obviously be areas where different paths are charted as is the case with any new administration."
But there were areas in which Mr. Giuliani was not so deferential, in particular his appointments to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the state agency responsible for rebuilding downtown Manhattan. He chose Mr. Harding; Paul Crotty, his former corporation counsel; Richard Grasso, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange; and Howard Wilson, the chairman of the School Construction Authority.
Mr. Bloomberg at the time said he had been consulted by both Mr. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki. But Mr. Bloomberg had no real say. That he and his staff found this nettlesome was clear, as Mr. Pataki expanded the board in recent weeks to to give the city three more members. "It was annoying," one Bloomberg aide said of the appointments. 
Mr. Giuliani appointed 20 judges to fill a variety of vacancies on the bench. Among them was Marybeth S. Richroath, a veteran prosecutor, who was second-in-command of Mr. Giuliani's Office of Criminal Justice Coordinator and is also married to a cousin of Mr. Giuliani's. Also appointed to the criminal bench was Richard M. Weinberg, the longtime counsel to Peter F. Vallone, the former City Council speaker. 
Anthony V. Carbonetti, the former chief of staff, who is also at Giuliani Partners, became the point of contact for Karl Rove at the White House and other senior presidential advisers who wanted updates on ground zero and for national security officials providing warnings about terrorist threats. 
In addition, Mr. Carbonetti was responsible for keeping an eye on two deals involving Mr. Spitzer. The Brooklyn deals involved the housing and retail project on the Schaefer site in Brooklyn and a planned office building and light industrial complex at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. 
In both cases, the projects had been under way for some time and had to clear several regulatory hurdles. Local officials including former City Councilman Kenneth K. Fisher, had long sought the construction of housing on the old brewery site, as had the United Jewish Organization. 
Demolition of the old brewery took place in 1999. The City Council approved the required land use changes in early December 2001. But to guarantee that nothing could hamper the deal, the sale of the city-owned property was concluded, for the assessed value of $9 million, Dec. 31. 
The Navy Yard deal involves the lease of city land for construction of a million square feet of commercial space. On Dec. 17, the board of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Corporation approved the start of lease negotiations with a development group led by Mr. Spitzer. Because of the delay in finding an anchor, Mr. Spitzer had to pay $250,000 in rent on the undeveloped property Jan. 31, officials involved in the deal said. Another large payment is owed to the city on April 30, and it is unclear if the deal can survive.
A spokesman for Mr. Spitzer, Isaac Abraham, said he was firmly committed. "We are committed to continue to make sure that this deal is finalized and bring those 300 jobs to the community," Mr. Abraham said. 
In the latest developments, the Bloomberg administration is seemingly doing away with the main gate-keeping mechanism for filling city jobs in the Giuliani administration. Edward I. Koch, the former mayor, said the Vacancy Control Board, dated to the fiscal crisis of the 1970's so that city commissioners could appeal for exceptions to a blanket hiring freeze. 
The board does not appear in the city's Green Book, the official directory. Critics have charged that it was sometimes used to fill posts with political appointments, and for promoting the mayor's agenda; for example, to weaken some agencies by denying them the ability to fill positions. 
Under Mr. Giuliani, the board exercised extraordinary control over city hiring. Mr. Carbonetti was chairman, and the board included the budget director and the deputy mayor for operations. 
A senior Giuliani adviser said the board was crucial to keeping agencies' hiring within budget. "Not patronage control," the adviser said. "Fiscal control." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BASEBALL (90%); CITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (87%); RELOCATIONS (74%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PROPERTY LEASES (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (63%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (62%); POLITICS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; BASEBALL; STADIUMS; COURTHOUSES; TWEED COURTHOUSE (NYC); BROOKLYN NAVY YARD; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PATRONAGE; MAYORS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RENTING AND LEASING 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) ;VACANCY CONTROL BOARD (NYC); MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK; NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (92%) HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; SKYLER, EDWARD; SPITZER, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



83 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Sharon on Survival 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
"I told Vice President Cheney I'm aware of the challenges that confront your president," Prime Minister Ariel Sharon told me after he launched Operation Protective Wall a few days ago. "There is seemingly a conflict of interests between America's need to establish a coalition against Saddam Hussein and Israel's need to fight Palestinian terror." 
 The Israeli leader believes this is only a "seeming" conflict, not a real one. "I'm confident we'll find a way to achieve both goals, taking no steps that undermine the other's security. If the U.S. goes after Saddam, Israel will stand behind you. You will win your war with Iraq -- and it will be a short one -- and then you will leave the region. But we have to stay and live here. We both must be careful not to make decisions that might harm the security of future generations of Israelis." 
 Many in Europe and the media are seized of the notion that Israel's counterattack on West Bank terrorists will only further radicalize the Palestinian population, producing ever more suicide bombers and the triumph of Hamas. At the same time, they insist that sustained terror war by Arab extremists is sure to demoralize Israelis, forcing them to accept the total retreat demanded at the recent Beirut conclave. 
On that theory, the counterattack now under way will harden the Palestinians, whose Saddam-subsidized bombers have nothing to lose but their lives -- while softening the Israelis, who yearn for peace. 
Sharon is not buying that at all. "I saw that pessimistic evaluation in Newsweek about our morale," he says with some scorn. "I don't even consider that an issue. Through 4,000 years of continuity in our ancestral homeland, Israel's people have undergone hardship, persecution, Holocaust, terrible adversity. But the nation is stronger than others have estimated. We have overcome all our challenges. The Jewish people are indestructible." 
Before Sharon's strong military response to the Arabs' Passover wave of suicide-slaughter, much coverage dwelt on stresses within Israel's coalition cabinet. "This government of national unity will serve its full term until the coming election of Oct. 28, 2003," Sharon said with no hesitation. "That is because Israel needs a wide, strong, united government without internal struggles. I'm enlarging the coalition. One rightist party left, but they'll be coming back, and other opposition parties may join us if the leftist part of Labor leaves." 
What of polls showing a turn toward the hard-line Bibi Netanyahu within his own Likud party? "We'll have a coalition serving until the end of the term, and I'll be the candidate for prime minister next time as well. First we must bring security, and then put into action our plans to reach the end of this conflict. The day will come when we will. I'm an optimist."
With Israeli troops hunting down terrorist leaders in a dozen Arab cities and villages, he has a non-bellicose message to innocent neighbors: "I know it's hard to be a Palestinian, but Israel is not the source of your suffering. That source is one man: Arafat, who has brought only tragedy and pain upon your nation. 
"As a soldier who knows the horrors of war, I seek a peace with every Arab country. We are ready to share our know-how with Palestinians, to help you and be helped by you. I see a Marshall Plan for Palestine -- call it the Bush-Sharon plan -- to solve your problem of unemployment. Together we can make tremendous achievements. 
"These are the things I would have told the Arab leaders to their faces if they had let me come to Beirut. I am 74 now, with one thing left in my life to accomplish: security and peace for ourselves and our neighbors." 
This prime minister, after a period of painful forbearance under intolerable provocation, is now decisively fulfilling the mandate Israelis overwhelmingly gave him: to turn back the tide of terror. President Bush is resisting powerful pressure from many in the worldwide opinion mafia and the oil industry to "engage" and undermine him. Though demonized by extremist Arab dictators and despised by fanatics left and right, Arik Sharon is the average Palestinian's last best hope in this generation for a good life in an independent state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); HAMAS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); HOLOCAUST (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%) PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); DICK CHENEY (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



84 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Ex-President to Lead Yale Globalization Center 

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

 BODY:
Ernesto Zedillo, the former president of Mexico, will become the next director of the Yale Center for the Study of Globalization, an institute that focuses on what Yale defines as the increasing economic, cultural and political interdependence between nations.
 "Alleviating poverty in third world countries is an issue very dear to Ernesto's heart," said Richard C. Levin, Yale's president, in announcing the appointment yesterday. "He wants to make sure that the globalization process improves the welfare of the poor as well as the rich." 
 The center invites public leaders and potential leaders from around the world to the university's New Haven campus to give lectures, hold seminars and offer semester-long courses. It also sponsors research projects and conferences, such as the conference scheduled for next fall on the relations among Central Asian countries and how those relations affect the stability of the region.
Mr. Zedillo, 50, received his Ph.D. in economics from Yale in 1981. His own interest in the job seems to focus on how to bring the benefits of a more global outlook to third world countries, which have often been portrayed as being exploited by richer ones.
"Globalization is not the problem itself," Mr. Zedillo said in a telephone interview yesterday. "The problem is that we are lacking effective public policies regarding globalization. We want to make globalization inclusive and its economic consequences -- the good ones -- sustainable."
Mr. Zedillo has been credited with promoting the development of democratic institutions, to the extent that he presided over the defeat of his own party in Mexico's first fully democratic presidential elections, in 2000. The party had been in power for 71 years; his tenure began in 1994. He also carried out economic reforms that brought new stability to Mexico's financial situation. 
Mr. Zedillo has had a long-standing relationship with Mr. Levin, also an economist teaching at Yale. The two met when Mr. Zedillo took Mr. Levin's class on industrial organization as a graduate student. The university approached Mr. Zedillo after Strobe Talbott, a deputy secretary of state in the Clinton administration and the current director of the center, announced in January his resignation to become the president of the Brookings Institution. 
"I have the highest regard for my own university," said Mr. Zedillo, whose appointment is effective in September.
The center, begun last year, is part of the university's effort to become more international. It decided last year to admit international students without regard for their ability to pay. It also started the World Fellows Program, which will sponsor potential leaders from around the world to study for a semester at Yale. 
The university has long been an incubator of political leaders in this country. Four of the past six presidents -- Gerald R. Ford, George Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush -- went to college or law school at Yale. 
Now the school is not at all shy about its ambition to cultivate leaders for other countries.
"That's exactly what we want to do," Mr. Levin said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernesto Zedillo received an honorary degree from Yale last year. He will assume his new duties at a center there beginning in September. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%) YALE UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ZEDILLO, ERNESTO; ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) MEXICO (96%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (58%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002 



85 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: To Look and to Nosh 

BYLINE:  By MIMI SHERATON

 BODY:
 A sampling of places on the Lower East Side. Restaurant prices are for a three-course meal for two, with tax and tip but not drinks.

Hotel

HOWARD JOHNSON EXPRESS INN, 135 East Houston Street, (212) 358-8844 (www.hojo .com). Spankingly modern with all minimal necessities in minirooms. Double or queen with continental breakfast: $139 and tax; two double beds with continental breakfast: $149 and tax; various discounts available.
Historic Sites

BIALYSTOKER SYNAGOGUE, 7-13 Bialystoker Place, between Grand and Broome Streets, (212) 475-0165. Built as a Protestant church in 1826, this has been a synagogue for immigrants from Bialystok, Poland, since 1905. The stark exterior belies the interior's exuberant Italianate frescoes of biblical themes.

CONGREGATION SHAARAI SHOMOYIM, First Romanian-American Congregation, 89-93 Rivington Street, (212) 673-2835. An impressive, much neglected interior distinguishes this imposing Romanesque-Revival building, which began as a church in 1890.

ELDRIDGE STREET SYNAGOGUE, 12 Eldridge Street, (212) 978-8800. Built in 1887, this first major synagogue of Eastern European Jews is slowly being restored and encouraging vestiges of its former grandeur are already in view.

HAMILTON FISH RECREATION CENTER AND POOL, 128 Pitt Street, (212) 387-7687. The Beaux Arts community center sits in a huge recreational park. Opening as a gymnasium in 1900, it imitated the plans for the Petit Palais in the Paris Exhibition of the same year.

HENRY STREET SETTLEMENT HOUSE, 263-65 Henry Street, (212) 766-9200. Charming early 19th-century Federal and Greek Revival style town houses are the headquarters for the social agency founded by Lillian Wald in 1867.

KEHILA KEDOSHA JANINA SYNAGOGUE AND MUSEUM, 280 Broome Street, (212) 673-4441 or 741-3533 (www.kehila-kedosha -janina.org). Forgive the banal interior, but don't miss the small, intriguing museum of Judaica from this obscure Romaniote community, established in Greece 2,000 years ago.

LOWER EAST SIDE CONSERVANCY, 235 East Broadway, near Jefferson Street, (212) 233-6037 (www.nycjewishtours.org). Public or customized tours of Jewish sites, including synagogues, restaurants, shops and streets.

LOWER EAST SIDE TENEMENT MUSEUM, 90 Orchard Street, (212) 431-0233 (www .tenement.org). Restored 19th-century apartments where Jewish, Irish and Italian families lived. By tour only, arranged at the museum's shop.

OUR LADY OF SORROWS ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH, 103 Pitt Street; rectory: (212) 673-0900. Flamboyant colors give this soaring 1867 church an operatic presence.

ST. MARY'S ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH, 440 Grand Street, (212) 674-3266. This venerable 1833 Roman Catholic church structure was built of gray stone and expanded in 1871 with idiosyncratic steeples atop an oddly proportioned brick facade.

SEWARD PARK BRANCH OF NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, 192 East Broadway, at Jefferson Street, (212) 477-6770. A stunningly grand library with elaborate masonry, built in 1909.

Theaters

ABRONS ART CENTER, 466 Grand Street, (212) 598-0400. Dance, drama and concerts are held in the Harry De Jour Playhouse, and fine and performing arts are taught and exhibited in this 1975 complex.

LANDMARK'S SUNSHINE CINEPLEX, 143 East Houston Street, (212) 358-7709. This former Yiddish vaudeville theater and movie house has been modernized into a multiplex for art films, with stadium seating and sharp acoustics.

MAZER THEATER, Educational Alliance, 197 East Broadway, between Clinton and Jefferson Streets, (212) 780-2300. A funky, campily sexy Wild West Show playing through April 27 in this 113-year-old theater is performed by the Bindlestiff Family Cirkus, vagabonds named for the bundle (bindle) on a stick (stiff) that hoboes carry.

ANGEL ORENSANZ CULTURAL CENTER, 172-75 Norfolk Street, (212) 529-7194 (www .orensanz.org). New York City's oldest existing synagogue building has been a National Landmark landmark cultural center since 1987, now with a calendar of music and stage performances and art exhibitions.

CLEMENTE SOTO VELEZ CENTER, (Milagro, Flamboyan, La Tea and Los Kabayitos Puppet and Children's Theater), 107 Suffolk Street, (212) 260-4080. Behind the imposing neo-Gothic facade of the former P.S. 160 are classes, studios and theaters. Performances range from "Little Red Riding Hood" to "Othello."

Night Life

BOWERY BALLROOM, 6 Delancey Street, (212) 533-2111. Once the Treemark shoe store, this trim little landmark building has an intimate downstairs bar with a conspiratorial feeling, where fans wait for the music to begin in the high-flown upstairs space. Admission: $12 to $20, depending on the band; for reservations, call Mercury Lounge (see below).

MAX FISH, 178 Ludlow Street, (212) 529-3959. Opened in 1989 by the pioneering Ulli Rimkus, this is one of the last vestiges of the first "new" Lower East Side. It seems like a big house party, with pool table, jukebox and pinball machines.

MERCURY LOUNGE, 217 East Houston Street, between Essex and Ludlow Streets, (212) 260-4700. A simpler, less dramatic space than its relative, the Bowery Ballroom, this is also a bar favored by fans of pop and rock music. Admission: $8 to $12, depending on the band.

SLIPPER ROOM, 167 Orchard Street, (212) 253-7246. At tables gathered intimately before a small stage, the attraction on Saturday nights is Mr. Choade's Upstairs Downstairs vaudeville burlesque show, with a show that does not go "past pasties and G-strings," as callers are informed. Other nights, other acts.

Shops

MARY ADAMS THE DRESS, 138 Ludlow Street, (212) 473-0237. Romantic party and wedding dresses are custom-made in gauzy silk organza, lace and the like.

ALLUSTRA JEWELRY, 100 Orchard Street, (212) 505-9868.Retro to ultra-modern jewelry includes chokers of chunky Asian beads or lacy silver, brass and plated pieces, plus hard-to-find clip-on earrings.

ALTMAN LUGGAGE, 135 Orchard Street, (212) 254-7275. Headquarters for a dazzling array of quality luggage, usually priced below sale merchandise uptown.

BECKENSTEIN MEN'S FABRICS, 133 Orchard Street, (212) 475-6666. Bargains in luxurious wool suit fabrics and shirtings, plus custom-made trousers, skirts and vests.

BLUESTOCKINGS WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE AND CAFE, 172 Allen Street, (212) 777-6028. Female writers and women's subjects are the stock-in-trade at this laid-back cooperative, which offers open house discussions and sells lights snacks.

DENISE CARBONELL, 154 Stanton Street, (212) 979-1613. Brilliant contemporary ceramic tableware plus pillows, coverlets and wall hangings, some vintage but most made by the owner.

CHA CHA'S HOUSE OF ILL REPUTE, 154 1/2 Suffolk Street, (212) 420-7450. A women's hat festishist's miniheaven, with custom versions of rakish fedoras and more ($100 to $250) by the milliner Deena Pisani.

FINE & KLEIN HANDBAGS, 119 Orchard Street, (212) 674-6720. Designer handbags and related leather goods at roughly one-third of their list prices.

FORWARD, 72 Orchard Street, (646) 264-3233. Original, ultrahip clothes in the tiny sizes favored down here, along with more serious suits for real men and women, by four young designers.

LAS VENUS, 163 Ludlow Street, (212) 982-0608. Vintage, reproduction and second-hand modern furniture, most by recognized designers and often at sale prices.

HARRIS LEVY, 278 Grand Street, (212) 226-3102. A four-generation business with name-brand linens at discount prices and luxurious custom imports.

LUDLOW GUITARS, 164 Ludlow Street, (212) 353-1775. Everything guitar-related is here, from vintage, new, used and custom instruments to recordings made by the owner, Robert Gary. Ditto all other picked string instruments

MARMALADE, 172 Ludlow Street, (212) 473-8070. New and vintage shoes, accessories and fanciful clothing. Some, like a festive flamenco skirt ($198), are designed by the owner, Hannah Kurland.

STRONGARM CLOTHING AND SUPPLY, 184 Orchard Street, (212) 353-8847. A museumlike shop of antique and old outdoor-wear like parkas, and Civil War campaign lamps, carpenters' workbenches and horse blankets.

HARRY ZARIN, 318 Grand Street, (212) 925-6112. If you can't find the home furnishings fabric you want in this staggering warehouse, it probably doesn't exist.

Restaurants

AKA CAFE, 49 Clinton Street, (212) 979-6096. Savory snacks in a casual setting include squash soup with spicy pumpkin seeds; roasted squid with chickpea puree; and lamb tongue sandwich and other sandwiches on pressed bialys. Skip the disappointing hangar steak. About $52.

BEREKET TURKISH KEBOB HOUSE, 187 East Houston Street, (212) 475-7700. Inexpensive, flavorful Middle Eastern salads, crisp falafel, hearty bean soups. Skip the leathery donner kebob and opt for spicy, meaty adana kebob; ground lamb kofte with onions and yogurt or tahini. About $25.

EL CASTILLO DE JAGUA, 113 Rivington Street, (212) 982-6412. Bright, friendly luncheonette with authentic Latino comfort food: chicken stew, shrimp in garlic sauce, fried green plantains and hearty egg dishes. About $35.

71 CLINTON FRESH FOODS, 71 Clinton Street, (212) 614-6960. With just 30 seats, this smartly trim, eclectic favorite is justly popular, making reservations difficult. Recent winners: chestnut gnocchi, duck consomme, black bass crusted with rye crumbs and edamame (Japanese soy beans), and lamb loin with Israeli couscous. About $110.

CONGEE VILLAGE, 100 Allen Street, (212) 941-1818. Wonderful Hong Kong-Cantonese food, with many versions of congee rice porridge, fried flounder, salt and pepper crabs, sugar snap pea leaves with garlic, beef noodles and much more. Long lines form early; reservations for six or more only. About $55.

ESSEX, 120 Essex Street, (212) 533-9616. A smart, jazzy setting for diverting multicultural fare. Winners include salmon tartare with wonton crisps, a gentle, soothing paella and roast chicken over polenta with a habanero chile sauce.

MOOZA, 191 Orchard Street, (212) 982-4770. Festive Arabian Nights decor with story-book depictions of the nine Muses (hence, Mooza) and a lovely garden. On the Mediterranean menu, stick to tuna tartare, shrimp tart, grilled tuna on eggplant caponata and rack of lamb. About $110.

PALADAR, 161 Ludlow Street, (212) 473-3535. In a convivial cafe with an enclosed garden, chef Aaron Sanchez grounds inventions in solid Latino roots, all at moderate prices. Appetizers are deliciously diverting as are great main courses like adobe-rubbed skirt steak and chicken stew in a pumpkin seed and epazote sauce. About $55.

SAMMY'S ROUMANIAN STEAK HOUSE, 157 Chrystie Street, (212) 673-0330. For a taste of the old Jewish East Side, try this jammed favorite. Live entertainment and shtick are as schmaltzy as the chopped liver, with indulgences of delicious grilled steaks, veal chops, flanken, potato latkes and kishka -- topped off, God willing, with an egg cream. About $95.

YONAH SCHIMMEL'S, 137 East Houston Street, (212) 477-2858. A time warp in its setting and menu. Share a kasha knish ($1.90) and save room for a cuddly, sweet cheese pretzel ($2).

SUBA, 109 Ludlow Street, (212) 982-5714. A magical setting: the basement dining room is surrounded by a rippling moat that casts reflections on the brick walls. Prettified food needs more seasoning; recent successes were grilled sardines, Serrano ham and cheese on pepper tuiles, lobster with a duck empanada, and crackling crisp crujientes de chocolate. About $90.

Food Stores

DOUGHNUT PLANT, 379 Grand Street, (212) 505-3700. I bypass big puffy doughnuts with cloying glazes in favor of long, fluted churros ($1), the cinnamon-scented Latino crullers.

EARTHMATTERS, 177 Ludlow Street, (212) 475-4180. This gleaming new mecca of excellent natural and vegetarian fare has an Internet cafe, salads, wraps and deliciously moist banana bread ($2.25 per slice).

ECONOMY CANDY COMPANY, 108 Rivington Street, (212) 254-1531. The big rock candy mountain with a floor to ceiling pile of almost every confection imaginable, pop and gourmet, all at bargain prices.

ESSEX STREET PUBLIC MARKET, 120 Essex Street, (212) 388-0449. On Fridays and Saturdays, this is a food festival of meats and fish and a garden of tropical fruits, roots and vegetables.

GUSS PICKLES, 97 Orchard Street, in the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. There's a constant line for the best, crunchiest kosher pickles, tomatoes and sauerkraut. For information, (516) 642-2634.

KADOURI & SONS, 51 Hester Street, (212) 677-5441. Middle Eastern exotica including dried fruits, nuts, coffees, spices and halvah of all sorts.

KATZ'S DELICATESSEN, 205 East Houston Street, (212) 254-2246. The city's best sputtering beef hot dogs ($2.40), hand-sliced pastrami and corned beef sandwiches ($9.95), tongue or salami omelets. This 114-year-old classic is almost always mobbed.

KOSSAR'S BIALYSTOKER KUCHEN BAKERY, 367 Grand Street, (212) 473-4810. The city's best bialys, what else? Answer: Bulkas, pletzls and superior bagels, especially the plain miniatures.

RUSS & DAUGHTERS, 179 East Houston Street, (212) 475-4880. A culinary landmark since 1914, this remains tops for impeccable smoked fish, herring, caviar and related salads, dried fruits and candies. MIMI SHERATON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); MENU PRICES (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); EXHIBITIONS (70%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); POLAND (56%); ROMANIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



86 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
The 'Star Wars' Effect, And the Part That's Art

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN 

 BODY:
HOW did I get the idea that "Star Wars: The Magic of Myth" at the Brooklyn Museum of Art might be a lark and not a witless fiasco?
 Chalk it up to a flush of nostalgia: hearing of the show jogged a memory -- the most hackneyed "Star Wars" memory, I'm sure -- of going to the first movie and feeling a kind of wonderment in those opening seconds of the film. It turned out to be the last instant before the world became spoiled by special effects. Even for a jaded teenager in New York, the sight of that enormous, seemingly never-ending ship unfurled from the top of the screen left its indelible mark. 
 The wonderment dwindled by the end of the third film and was gone after the fourth, which I even hesitate to admit I saw. But the initial feeling evidently lodged in my head. One of the salient qualities of art is to lodge in your head. Something you see stays with you, sometimes despite yourself, years after you have rationally decided that its presence is an embarrassment. That opening scene -- 13 seconds by my watch is the time it takes for the ship to pass overhead, a long time (count it) -- that scene was a work of art.
Wonderment is not what you derive from this implausible exhibition. What you get may be a throbbing in the temples from the noise of many competing video monitors and a jab in the side from some fellow visitor wielding a light saber, although museum officials alerted me to a Web site (http://boards.theforce.net /message.asp?topic=6077494&replies=0) where guidelines for appropriate behavior have been posted for members of the New York chapter of one of the "Stars Wars" fan clubs. The guidelines specify "NO DUELING of any kind!" and "NO Blasters! NO BLASTERS!"
Even considering that the event is pitched to preteenagers and "Star Wars" buffs, I had expected (and the Brooklyn Museum of Art ought to be expected to provide) something that at least pretends to be serious about art. A display of Princess Leia's slave girl outfit is not what I mean. I could have imagined an exhibition about the technology of visual effects, say.
A few months before the first "Star Wars" opened in 1977, the Academy Award for special effects went to "King Kong," which was just a big guy in a gorilla suit groping Jessica Lange. No wonder that the giant ship at the opening of "Star Wars" seemed like a hyperspace leap forward in visual sophistication.
Alternatively, a show about Saturday afternoon serials, comic books and "Star Wars" might have done the trick. Like all great visual cinema, "Star Wars" invented its own vocabulary of images, and it would have been instructive to see where they came from and how they evolved.
No such luck here. We're served up token drawings and paintings, which seem orphaned and overwhelmed amid an extravagant toy store of disappointingly ordinary-looking costumes, props and models, incongruously exhibited in fancy cases against cartoon backdrops as if they were the holy relics of St. John the Baptist presented by Mad Magazine. It reminded me above all of how film transforms mundane objects into magic.
Originally presented by the National Air and Space Museum in Washington and well-traveled across the country by the Smithsonian's traveling exhibition service, the show has naturally been an enormous box-office draw, its true purpose. So it bothers with a rationale only barely.
The rationale is not, as you might expect from the National Air and Space Museum, scientific. It is the mythology of the movies, presented straight-facedly as if it were a revelation that "Star Wars" is a cheerful testosterone-heavy Hollywood B-movie gumbo mixing high and low sources like the Bible, "Gunsmoke," "Beowulf," the "Nibelungenlied," King Arthur, Huck Finn, Buck Rogers and "The Odyssey."
The book accompanying the show dutifully enumerates these mythological connections via plentiful allusions to Carl Jung, Joseph Campbell and Bill Moyers, a work of deadpan prose that in its earnestness is unintentionally hilarious. The self-mockery of the original film, as Pauline Kael famously pointed out, entailed mimicking the tone of bad movies, turning "old-movie ineptness into conscious Pop Art." The "Star Wars" actors never let on whether their bad acting was really bad or ironic.
The book's credulous tone might seem to strike a similarly winking pose, except that it is apparently dead serious.
And speaking of dead serious, I have delayed, because it requires me to be earnest, too, the issue of commercial opportunism. The last straw for me was the room of masks of characters like Darth Maul that you can try on at the end of the exhibition, leading straight into the shop where you may then buy the same Darth Maul mask among much other "Star Wars" paraphernalia, so that the show and shop become indistinguishable.
All museums merchandise. But there are limits. Lucasfilm Ltd. has obviously provided its costumes and props knowing that shows like this help promote the films and goodies. Why shouldn't it? It's a business. The next "Star Wars" installment opens on May 16. The exhibition runs through July 7. Good for George Lucas. Why the Brooklyn Museum would mortgage its reputation to advertise for him is not so clear.
Museums justify this brand of show by waving the populist flag, talking about broadening audiences, getting new faces through the front doors.
Sponsors, trustees and government officials like to hear this. But it almost never works. Typically, this is just a quick, temporary means to make headlines, boost attendance figures and raise cash.
The Brooklyn Museum, one of the country's most distinguished cultural institutions, under its showman-director Arnold L. Lehman, is clearly searching for new visitors in challenging economic times. I love the museum. I have loved visiting it since I was a boy.
This show made my heart sink.
"Star Wars: The Magic of Myth" remains at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, through July 7, then travels to Sydney, Australia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Podrace Crash," a concept drawing by Doug Chiang, and a costume for Queen Amidala, part of "Star Wars: The Magic of Myth" at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. (Brooklyn Museum of Art); (Eric Long/$; Lucasfilm)(pg. E29); A Darth Vader photograph, left, and the costume of Anakin Skywalker (Luke's father, who becomes Vader), both at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. (Photographs by Lucasfilm Ltd. from the Brooklyn Museum of Art)(pg. E31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FILM (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%) ART; REVIEWS; MOTION PICTURES 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN MUSEUM 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: STAR WARS (MOVIES) 

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



87 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: Andersen's Employees 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Arthur Andersen has been indicted by the Justice Department, thus sealing the fate of tens of thousands of creative, dynamic, hard-working Americans who will be unemployed (front page, April 2). 
 The law is the law, but it's time to realize the human costs.
Life has been traumatic for all Americans since Sept. 11. Enron was a major blow, too. Now it is time for Arthur Andersen! 
What good comes out of bringing the company to its knees?

DIEGO BANEGAS
Mexico City, April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INDICTMENTS (88%); ETHICS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BANEGAS, DIEGO 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



88 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 2679 words

HEADLINE: The New Old World of the Lower East Side 

BYLINE:  By MIMI SHERATON; Mimi Sheraton's latest book is "The Bialy Eaters: The Story of a Bread and a Lost World."

 BODY:
Spending a weekend in another part of town may not seem like adventurous travel, but given New York's diversity it can be as intriguing as a visit to almost any other city in the United States.
 One can make ad hoc visits to museums, theaters or restaurants in a different neighborhood, but this may reveal only isolated pieces of the local jigsaw puzzle. For me, it is essential to stay in a neighborhood hotel. If it's luxurious, it becomes part of the treat; but even hotels with minimal comforts offer freedom from the home routine and total immersion in the new surroundings. 
 So a few weeks ago my husband, Richard Falcone, and I checked into the Howard Johnson Express Inn that opened on East Houston Street in December, the better to explore the complexities of the changing Lower East Side. The first surprise was the modern hotel, somewhat spare but quiet. It had all the basic necessities, minus a shower cap and extra pillows. This being Manhattan, low rates buy minuscule space. Although our bed was billed as queen size, it was barely a double and all the rooms I saw recalled the old Henny Youngman line on his hotel room being "so small, I had to go out to the hall to change my mind." 
This block of Houston Street, between Forsyth and Eldridge Streets, virtually summarizes the current Lower East Side story: the new, the old and the resurrected. Standing next to the hotel is the 92-year-old Yonah Schimmel Knish Bakery, with antique showcases and a cozily disheveled eating space hung with faded memorabilia. Share a ritual kasha knish and a far better sweet cheese pretzel and then walk next door to the lyrical brick facade of Landmark's Sunshine Cinema, a modernized art-film multiplex with stadium seating, which opened in December in what a century ago was a showplace for Yiddish vaudeville and films.
I reserved most of the area south of Delancey Street for Sunday, as Jewish-owned shops there close on Saturdays. But I did walk through the Essex Street Public Market on Saturday morning, when it is at its most exuberant as local residents, mainly Hispanic, shop amid a profusion of fresh fish, meat and tropical produce with amazingly low prices. I also checked out movie and theater schedules, to while away evening hours until the late club action got under way. "It's not your grandmother's Lower East Side" is the much-repeated warning -- or promise. But there is a lot that would be familiar to a Jewish grandmother of a certain age, if not to an Irish or Italian one. As became clear during an evocative tour of the restored apartments in what is now the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, those were the main ethnic groups who crammed into the area (sometimes with 12 in 2 rooms, one windowless) from 1863 to 1935. 
Other than a few Roman Catholic churches, like St. Mary's on Grand Street and the flamboyant Our Lady of Sorrows on Pitt Street, most of the aging buildings reflect Jewish origins. Many of the synagogues, generally in depressing disrepair or converted to other uses, can be visited independently; more convenient are the tours organized by the Lower East Side Conservancy. The Angel Orensanz Cultural Center on Norfolk Street, for example, has held art shows and theater performances since 1987 in what had been Congregation Anshe Chesed, built in 1850 as the first Reform temple in New York.
A virtual museum is being created in the once grand Eldridge Street Synagogue as its mix of Gothic and Moorish style architecture is restored. Florid Italianate frescoes are the surprise behind the staid stone facade of the Bialystoker Synagogue, built as a church in 1826 but bought by Jewish immigrants from Bialystok, Poland, in 1905. The unprepossessing interior of the Kehila Kedosha Janina temple includes a fascinating little museum of Judaica that includes Alephs, the delicately hand-painted birth certificates for boys (but not girls).
This was a congregation of Romaniote Jews, whose ancestors were shipwrecked off the Greek coast 2,000 years ago while being taken to Rome from Jerusalem as slaves. They established communities around Janina, and developed their own customs, foods and a language different from Yiddish or the Sephardic Ladino. Many surviving synagogues cannot attract the 10-man minyan (quorum) required for daily prayers. At the large brick First Romanian-American Congregation (Shaarai Shomoyim), with its shabby but impressive sanctuary graced with a curved balcony and a richly carved Ark, Rabbi Schmuel Spiegel searches the streets, as his father did before him, for any Jewish men who might join in. All worshipers on Saturday morning share the kiddush breakfast of cholent, a bean-and-meat casserole.
Orchard Street's genuine pushcart bargains in clothing have been replaced by merchandise that is merely cheap, and the shops and street stands are likely to be run by newly arrived Asians. But there are many vibrant reminders of a Jewish past, including the 114-year-old Katz's Delicatessen on East Houston Street. It's a bustling scene of nonstop noshing on spicy beef hot dogs and pastrami, which is hand-sliced "even if you don't ask," as a counterman assured me. Its famous World War II slogan, "Send a salami to your son in the Army," prompted a Midwestern friend to note that only in New York does salami rhyme with army.
In this neighborhood since 1914, Russ & Daughters remains the source of impeccable smoked fish, herrings, caviar and related luxuries. It is run by Mark Federman, grandson of the founder, who hopes a fourth generation will join him soon. Born on Ludlow Street, Mr. Federman has weathered the area's decline and subsequent rise. "I thought I was dreaming one Sunday in 1987, when I noticed many customers in their late 20's and 30's ordering the whole shmeer and saying they had just moved into the neighborhood," he said. "Most customers then had gray hair and drove in from Long Island and New Jersey."

All in the Family
The fourth generation is also waiting in the wings at Beckenstein Men's Fabrics, a k a Fabric Czar U.S.A.: Jonathan Boyarsky is preparing to take over from his father, Neal, at this 83-year-old mecca for superb woolen suitings and supple cotton shirtings.
These aspects of Jewish life contrast sharply with the savvy, creative and encouragingly polite Paper magazine bar and boutique crowds and to the daily activities of the Hispanic residents who are the mainstay of the streets not yet gentrified. By day, churches, schools, playgrounds, bodegas and luncheonettes suggest aspects of a quiet village, especially on tree-lined blocks like Clinton Street, between Houston and Rivington Streets, or in the expansive Hamilton Fish Recreation Center on Pitt Street, with its 100-by-80-foot swimming pool, game courts and gardens.
The backdrop for this cultural mix remains generally shabby, with tenements overshadowing the re-dos, some of which deliberately retain run-down exteriors to save money or preserve the area's character.
A case in point is Denise Carbonell's shop, with colorful ceramic tableware and fabrics made by the owner; it's cheerful by day but dismal at night when the security gates are locked and the only sign reads "Louis Zuflacht," a ghostly bygone haberdasher. Most depressing are the graffiti-splashed corrugated metal shutters that hide bars and restaurant by day, and shops at night. But if some parts of every block look deserted, they hardly seem ominous thanks to lively street traffic.

A Time to Shop
Saturday proved the perfect time to survey an array of boutiques, shops of ephemera and casual places to eat. The most encouraging fashion boutique is Forward, an unintended reminder of the Yiddish newspaper that originated in the landmark building on East Broadway. On an obscure stretch of Orchard Street, this boutique was sponsored by the local Business Improvement District to showcase four young designers who work at the shop, to gain business experience. Along with the bizarre and petite shrugs, dresses and pants are the contemporary classics of Franklin Rowe, whose smart suits and jackets can be ordered in realistically larger sizes.
Fanciful vintage clothing, shoes and accessories are displayed alongside house creations at Marmalade. Nearby, at Mary Adams the Dress, the owner custom makes romantic wedding and party dresses of dreamy silk organza, washed taffeta and lace. At the pocket-size shop called Cha Cha's House of Ill Repute, a milliner, Deena Pisano, creates snappy hats for women. If you feel in need of intellectual fare about now, enter the nearby Bluestockings Women's Bookstore and Cafe devoted to books by women and feminist interests; it's a countrified cooperative where discussion and readings are held, and snacks are sold.
Sunday was the day for Orchard Street bargains: designer handbags at Fine & Klein, luggage at Altman's (where I have shopped for 10 years) and the varied, reasonably priced jewelry at Allustra, where there are many clip-on earrings because the owner, Ilsa Totuh, does not have pierced ears. If home furnishings pale beside fashion offerings in this neighborhood, there are still a few places of special interest. Las Venus is crammed with vintage and second-hand modern classics, which always seem to be on sale. On Grand Street, on Sunday, miles of home furnishings fabrics can be seen in Harry Zarin's warehouse, and beautiful name-brand linens and imports are substantially discounted at Harris Levy.
Restore your energy with an onion-scented bialy from Kossar's, some fragrant dried fruit or Turkish pistachios and halvah from Kadouri & Sons or sugary cinnamon churros, the Latino crullers made at the Doughnut Plant. If not those, then spark your senses with Guss's legendary dill- and garlic-pickled cucumbers and tomatoes, now sold at the Tenement Museum.
Or satisfy a sweet tooth with the pop and gourmet candies piled on counters at the Economy Candy Company. Prices? "Mine have to be the lowest," said its second-generation owner, Jerry Cohen, "or no one would come way down here." Those looking for a more healthful snack can find it at a three-month-old natural food shop, Earthmatters, which has an Internet cafe along with everything vegetarian and organic, another sign of the area's resurgence.
Thus refreshed, consider esoterica. Start with the antique and used rough outerwear, like parkas and army uniforms, at Strongarm, which also sells utilitarian Civil War campaign lamps, old carpenter's workbenches and mellow horse blankets. For picked string instruments of all kinds, visit Ludlow Guitars, headquarters for the new, the used and the custom made, and guitar recordings of the owner, Robert Gary. 
Before getting totally lost in food shopping and bargain-hunting, remember to seek out landmarks in passing, among them the palatial Seward Park Branch of the New York Public Library built in 1909. This was part of a cultural center that flourished in the immigrant area. It included the 113-year-old Mazer Theater, where in 1906 Mark Twain shared the stage with Sholem Alecheim. Another architectural gem is the set of 19th-century town houses that serve as the headquarters of the Henry Street Settlement social agency.
In addition to the Angel Orensanz, other theatrical fare to sample includes theater, music and dance at the Abrons Center on Grand Street. Various dramas are performed in the three theaters of the Clemente Soto Velez Center -- named for the late activist Puerto Rican poet -- which is in the former Public School 160, a once beautiful building that deserves restoration. In addition to plays like "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead," it offers popular puppet shows, often in both Spanish and English, in its children's theater. 

An Ethnic Smorgasbord
Which leaves nothing to do but eat, of course, and this neighborhood offers varied traditional and innovative choices.
In the first category is Sammy's Roumanian Steak House, with its nonstop bar mitzvah. The walls ripple with curling photos and press clips and the live music ranges from "Romania, Romania" to "Strangers in the Night." All the while, huge crowds devour delicious chopped liver and unborn eggs; flanken, in mushroom and barley soup; potatoes, in latkes or mashed with schmaltz; and -- the best -- grilled steaks and veal chops.
Being passionate about Chinese food, I'll never forgive myself for not trying Congee Village before this weekend escapade. In a series of rooms designed to suggest a village, this Hong Kong-Canton kitchen turns out delectable, traditional dishes. After sampling about 20, I found that all were at the very least good, and most were sensational. The simple breakfast rice porridge, congee, can be had in more than a dozen variations, from plain to chicken or crab or frogs or snails. But more elegant shellfish, meat, noodles and vegetable dishes are equally astonishing for their authenticity and flavor.
Among the innovative and eclectic, 71 Clinton Fresh Foods has become a coolly stylish legend in its own short time. With lovely food like savory chestnut gnocchi and tender lamb loin with Israeli couscous, it is better than ever. This is despite the departure of its original chef, Wylie Dufresne, who, with partners Phil Suarez and Jean-Georges Vongerichten, is preparing to open WD50, a further taste of sophistication at 50 Clinton Street. 
And as a culinary fusion work in progress, consider Essex, a high and handsome bar restaurant with successful choices like short rib ravioli, roasted duck breast on kasha varnishkes, crisp empanadas, and a lusty strip steak with charmula sauce and potato hash. 
But among the young chefs testing their skills downtown, my favorite by far is Paladar's rakish Aaron Sanchez, who spins gastronomic wonders based on a Mexican-Hispanic palate, honed by his mother, Zarela Martinez of Zarela's. Many inventions in this festive cafe are so skillfully realized that they seem to be classics. Among such are the frothy pumpkin soup, calabaza cappuccino, and an addictive seafood guisado, a saline soup-stew in a spicy coconut milk broth.
If atmosphere counts almost as much as the food, the clear choices are Suba and Mooza. Suba is a subterranean boite with a moat swirling around the dining platform, casting Venice-like shimmers on brick walls. The prettified food needs nothing more than seasonings to perfect it, and there are several winning choices.
Mooza is a journey into the Arabian Nights, with red-flocked gold wallpaper, exotic lanterns and campy paintings of the nine muses -- Mooza in Hebrew, according to the Israeli-born partner, Gil Elnatan.
The Italian chef, Gabriele Di Martino, does best by his native fare, but like so many chefs in the area is stingy with salt. But there are enough good choices to warrant sitting inside or out. The beautiful garden, with fountain, will open in a week or so.
For casual snacking, consider Middle Eastern salads, falafel and kebobs at Bereket, which is inexpensive and crowded at mealtimes. Or more stylishly, try the AKA Cafe, an offshoot of 71 Clinton Street that is best for savory small appetizers and sandwiches, especially on pressed bialys. 
Finally, there is the gentle Hispanic comfort food at the friendly luncheonette El Castillo de Jagua, where local families and friends gather for a taste of home.

Sweet Dreams
Not being much of a barfly, I leave you on your own for the dozens lined up here, suggesting only an hour or so at Max Fish, whose owner, Ulli Rimkus, was a pioneer in the neighborhood when she opened on Ludlow Street in 1989. Nothing thematic or cutesy here, just one big house party with pool table, pinball machines, a jukebox and a mishmash of carnival accessories.
Some bars add music and performances, like the Bowery Ballroom in its trim landmark building with a soaring music room upstairs, and the affiliated Mercury Lounge. Both places feature up-and-coming pop and rock bands.
For a finale to your weekend adventure, wind up close to midnight at the big Slipper Room and catch Mr. Choade's "Upstairs Downstairs," a vaudeville burlesque show. Then nod off up at Howard Johnson's and be glad you stayed close by.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Landmark's Sunshine Cinema, adjacent to Yonah Schimmel and Howard Johnson inn. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. E29); Worship: The Kehila Kedosha Janina Synagogue and Museum. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. E37) Map of Manhattan highlighting The Lower East Side. (pg. E37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); FILM (77%); ETHNICITY (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BAKERIES (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%) 

PERSON: SHERATON, MIMI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



89 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2387 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
A Fallen Saigon Rises Again In the West

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

 BODY:
THERE are no old battlefields here, no red flags with the gold star of communism, no monuments to Ho Chi Minh.
 Here in the Los Angeles suburb of Westminster, Calif., in a community known as Little Saigon, Vietnamese refugees have created something entirely new: a Southern California version of the country they left behind. 
 Drive 45 miles down the 405 freeway from Los Angeles, swing through the 22 freeway, curve around an off ramp and -- what is this? -- everything is written in Vietnamese.
There are miles of pastel mini-malls where all the shops have Vietnamese names. The sales pitches on billboards are in Vietnamese. Quavering Asian melodies float from storefronts. A woman power-walks through a park wearing the conical straw hat of a rice farmer. 
Everything looks clean, new and well-to-do, from the polished cars that jam the parking lots to the grocery stores with exotic foods wrapped in plastic. 
It is like an episode of "The Twilight Zone," a slice of alternative reality: this is what Saigon might have looked like if America had won the war in 1975.
The giant, climate-controlled Asian Garden Mall, at Bolsa Avenue and Brookhurst Street, is its centerpiece, Vietnam in a bottle, spic and span and celebrating the Vietnamese passions of food, music and jewelry -- including not one but two separate emporiums of gold and gems surrounded by dozens of stalls selling fast-food delicacies like xoi (sticky rice with sausage and other fillings) and banh cuon (tender dumplings with ground pork).
The 27 years since the fall of Saigon are telescoped here into a world that blends the past and the future. At the Chua Vietnam Buddhist temple, monks and nuns in saffron and white light their incense sticks and perform their rituals oblivious to time and place. At the Cafe Brodard restaurant, tucked away at the back entrance of the Mall of Fortune, at Westminster Avenue and Brookhurst Street, diners eat pork wrapped in rice paper as a large-screen television plays music videos of traditional songs.
It is early in the morning -- at cafes like the Coffee Factory (15582 Brookhurst Street) and Le Croissant Dore (9122 Bolsa Avenue) -- that the ghosts of the past emerge. Sad, aging veterans of a lost war drink strong French coffee and murmur about the lives and the land they left behind.
There are men like Lt. Henry Le, a former South Vietnamese air force pilot, who seems to still be standing by for orders and who carries business cards reading: "Anywhere anytime. All weather attack bomber. Freedom fighter."
But there are others who have moved on vigorously, like Nguyen Thi Ngoc Thuy, 47, who runs Nuoc Mia Vien Tay, a shop specializing in a Vietnamese treat, sugar-cane juice sweetened with a squeeze of orange. She has placed the past on a back shelf of her shop: a model of a fighter plane her husband flew during the war. In the future, she plans to leave her business to study interior design, just as soon as her son finishes law school.
There is nobody more energetic than a Vietnamese immigrant. This town is a sort of Alice's Restaurant crowded with florists, fortune tellers, dentists, tennis instructors, nail salons, bottled-water outlets, chiropractors, driving schools, travel agencies.
There is nothing like it in Vietnam, in the struggling communist society produced by the people who won the war, where private enterprise is still a new toy to play with and where there is still no need for such a thing as a parking lot. 
It is on weekend nights that the truly successful crown their achievements with lavish wedding parties -- gate crashers are welcome -- at gigantic restaurants like the Grand Garden. As Little Saigon has grown richer, the guest lists have swollen to as many as 600 and the evening's tab to more than $15,000.
About 135,000 ethnic Vietnamese live in Southern California's Orange County, and Little Saigon is their hub for shopping and socializing, for reading Vietnamese papers and listening to Vietnamese radio programs, for adding their voices to the town's passionate emigre politics.
"This is my home away from home," said Tracy Pham, 49, a software consultant who lives in Irvine, and visits almost every weekend. "When I am at work, I am an American. When I head back to Little Saigon I'm 100 percent Vietnamese."
On weekends, thousands of Vietnamese from around the state and the country converge here, jamming even the most spacious parking lots. And as much as anything, they come to eat. All along the streets of Little Saigon are shops with numbers in their name: Pho 76, Pho 86, Pho 79, Pho 54, -- lucky numbers chosen by their owners.
Each of these noodle shops sells pho (pronounced Fuh), the fragrant soup served with beef, chicken, pork or tripe and eaten with chopsticks and a spoon. It is a staple without which no Vietnamese could subsist for long. The secret is in the broth, and some shop owners hire Hispanic waiters for fear a fellow Vietnamese would steal the recipe. 
It is not difficult for an outsider to do as the locals do: to spend the day sampling the cuisine from cafe to food stall to restaurant.
There are French-Vietnamese restaurants like the Green Papaya (15691 Brookhurst), with its fragrant Vietnamese rice, an import that is often labeled "Thai rice" to dodge the fury of hard-liners who oppose anything coming from communist Vietnam. And there are specialty restaurants like Pogolac (14580 Brookhurst), which serves "beef cooked seven ways," a banquet of beef grilled, simmered, stuffed or wrapped, with herbs and sauces served on the side.
The year's high point -- in late January or early February -- is Tet, the Vietnamese lunar new year, a time when there is a crowded parking-lot fair and a parade with floats that fly the yellow-and-red flag of a nation that no longer exists, South Vietnam.
Little Saigon -- which has spread from Westminster, block by block, into parts of Garden Grove, Santa Ana, Fountain Valley and Midway City -- really did start out little. The first refugees in early 1975 were housed at the Camp Pendleton military base in San Diego, some 50 miles to the south. Their first forays into their new homeland were to visit the county's social welfare office, which was in Westminster. The refugees needed a place to sit down to help each other decipher the forms for welfare, food stamps and health care, and so the first noodle shop was opened. It was soon followed by dozens more.
Now, among the 1.3 million registered voters in Orange County, about 16,000 have the last name Nguyen. Little Saigon is home to 3,000 businesses.
At a moment when America is finding itself condemned in many foreign countries, the scene here is a reminder of the nation's continuing magnetism.
"The story of Little Saigon is the story of America," said Yen Do, editor of the 18,000-circulation Nguoi Viet Daily News, the largest Vietnamese-language newspaper in the country. "What happened here in a few years is what has happened in America in 200 years. Everybody around the world wants to repeat this experience, this refugee experience."

SIDETRIPS
Traveling the World (But Without Leaving the Country)

IN ST. PAUL, A TASTE OF THE HMONG

In the late 1970's, Laotian refugees of the Chinese Hmong clans began arriving in St. Paul. The largest Hmong population in the United States has its nucleus in a 10-block area called Frogtown, near the University of Minnesota.

* Foodsmart Restaurant; 544 University Avenue West, (651) 665-9105. A Hmong buffet is served daily, with roast chicken, pork sausage, quav iab nyuj, (a soup with galangal, chili peppers and beef intestines) and nqauj xyaw qhiav (a rice dish with ginger, green onion, black mushrooms, and your choice of meat).
* Hmong Vientiane; 469 Anita Avenue, (651) 222-4258. This small diner serves vegetarian meals as well as pigeon and fish specials.
* Bangkok City Supper Club; 733 Pierce Butler Route, (651) 488-0037). This nightspot combines a restaurant serving Hmong food with a bar and live music.

ETHIOPIA ON THE POTOMAC

The area along 18th Street NW is among the most multicultural in Washington, with a high concentration of Ethiopian immigrants who began arriving in the early 1980's. The district is now flush with restaurants featuring traditional fare like the spongy, slightly sour pancakes called injera that are used to scoop up thick meat stews, mostly served communally and sans silverware.

* Addis Ababa; 2106 18th Street NW, (301) 251-7878. This mainstay serves classic injera with chicken or lamb stews.

* Fasika's Ethiopian; 2447 18th Street NW, (202) 797-7673. Offering chicken, lamb or beef stews (either hot or mild), light pastry appetizers as well as seafood.

* Meskerem Ethiopian; 2434 18th Street NW, (202) 462-4100. Consistently rated among the city's best in Ethiopian dining; low stools on the third floor offering the best view of the neighborhood. Appetizers include beef-stuffed pastries, steamed shrimp with a spicy sauce and a beet, potato and chili salad.
* Red Sea Ethiopian Restaurant; 2463 18th Street NW, (202) 483-5000. Large faded travel-agency posters of Ethiopia give this inexpensive restaurant a lived-in atmosphere. The menu features classic Ethiopian, as well as kik wat (yellow split peas with ginger root and nutmeg) and temiser azefah ( a spicy puree of lentils).

IN ATLANTA, KOREAN CULTURE

Many of the more than 70,000 Koreans who live in Atlanta today are concentrated in the community of Doraville, which stretches northeast of the city along Buford Highway, where the malls and storefronts house Korean businesses, groceries and, of course, restaurants. Bars, nightclubs and karaoke parlors keep the parking lots full at night.

* 88 Tofu House; 490 Buford Highway (770) 457-8811. This bargain restaurant allows diners to create their own versions of tofu soup.

* Asiana Garden; 5150 Buford Highway (770) 452-1677. In addition to sushi, this mid-priced barbecue has an extensive meat selection for tableside grilling.

* Harue Cafe; 58-72 Buford Highway, (770) 220-3013. The menu includes Korean, Japanese and Western fare, and there's a glassed-in garden room.

* Pung Mie; 5145 Buford Highway, (770) 455-0435. Steamed or fried dumplings, san shan seafood noodle soup and squid or shrimp with nida (similar to a green onion).

IN CHICAGO, SOUTHEAST ASIA

A thriving South Asian population has made the area home in the area bisected by Western Avenue, with Pakistanis on the east side of Western Avenue and Indians -- and Indian restaurants -- on the west.

* Arya Bhawan Restaurant; 2508 West Devon Avenue, (773) 274-5800. The only all-vegetarian buffet on Devon; daily lunches and weekend evenings.

* Udupi Palace; 2543 West Devon Avenue, (773) 338-2152. This South Indian restaurant is known for its extremely large dhosas (an Indian crepe).

* Tiffin the Indian Restaurant; 2536 West Devon Avenue, (773) 338-2143. With a more refined atmosphere, this restaurant serves both North and South Indian fare, featuring barbequed chicken, tandori king prawns and lamb shish-kababs.

IN DETROIT, PRIDE AND PIEROGIES

Poles were first drawn to Hamtramck, a two-square mile island within the city of Detroit, by the opening of the Dodge engine plant in 1910. The plant closed in 1980 but the community remained.

* Ivanhoe Cafe; 5249 Joseph Campau Street, (313) 925-5335. Located along the Detroit River, this cafe specializes in seafood.

* Polish Village Cafe; 2990 Yemans Street, (313) 874-5726. This subterranean restaurant beneath an historic Hamtramck home offers classic Polish dishes like nalesniki (crepes) and golabki (stuffed cabbage). During 1996, President Bill Clinton ate perogies here.

* Krakus Restaurant and Bar; 12900 Joseph Campau Street, (313) 368-4848. Traditional Polish fare, and a dance hall on Saturday evenings.

* Holbrook Cafe; 3201 Holbrook Street, (313) 875-1115. This site of the former Polish American Century Club is known for its Friday night fish fry.

* Under the Eagle Cafe; 9000 Joseph Campau Street, (313) 875-5905. In addition to roast pork loin, sauerkraut and pierogis, the restaurant is known for dill pickle soup.

IN THE AREA
Asian Tastes and Sounds In Southern California
Scattered throughout Southern California are other communities like Little Saigon. Here are some that are worth a visit:
* Little Phnom Penh in Long Beach, Calif., is a Cambodian enclave that dates back to the 1960's. These days, the population is about 50,000; the main thoroughfare is Anaheim Street.
Popular restaurants include La Lune, which has live music on the weekend, 1458 Atlantic Avenue, (562) 599-5457; Hak Heang, with dishes that include anchovy beef and curried fish, 2041 East Anaheim Street, (562) 434-0296; and New Paradise, which is known for both its catfish and its community fund-raisers, 1350 East Anaheim Street, (562) 218-0066.
* Little Tokyo in downtown Los Angeles was once home to more than 30,000 immigrants. It now has shrunk to a population of 1,500 and covers three square blocks.
But even if Little Tokyo is smaller, it still has a lot to offer. For instance, the Japanese Village Plaza, 347 East Second Street, is a 2.4-acre complex that is home to more than 40 stores. One of the plaza's establishments is Hama Sushi, a small restaurant known for its friendly staff and fresh fish; the number is (213) 680-3454.
* The first settlers of Koreatown were farm workers who arrived in the early 1900's. But immigration to the United States was soon severely curtailed. The population boom did not start again until 1965.
One of the neighborhood's big events is the Koreatown Festival, an annual celebration in the fall that has live music, a parade and floats. 
The Koreatown Plaza at 928 South Western Avenue, (213) 382-1234, has three levels of shopping with more than 70 stores offering things like books, clothing, jewelry and music.

GETTING THERE
A quick search on the Internet yesterday afternoon yielded these seven-day advance-purchase fares for a Friday departure and a Sunday return: 
New York-Los Angeles: $354 (America West). 
Chicago-Los Angeles: $336 (American/United). 
Dallas-Los Angeles: $355 (United). 
Seattle-Los Angeles: $262 (Alaska/Northwest). 
Las Vegas-Los Angeles: $76 (America West). 
The following hotel deals were also available for next weekend, if booked through the Expedia Web site (www.expedia.com): 
Sofitel Beverly Hills: $119 a night. 
Crown Plaza Airport: $60 a night. 
Loews Santa Monica: $254 a night. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Escapes section on Friday about ethnic restaurants across the United States misstated the location of the Ivanhoe Cafe in Detroit. It is located two miles northwest of the Detroit River, not on the River.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For visitors, a trip to Vietnam, just south of Los Angeles. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. F1); THE FAR WEST -- An Orange County version of the old country with (clockwise from bottom left) Buddhist monks, music by Vietnamese artists and traditional weddings at the Chua Viet Nam temple. In the Coffee Factory (right), veterans of the Vietnam War gather for tea and politics. (Photographs by MONICA ALMEIDA/The New York Times)(pg. F5) Drawing (Josh McKible)(pg. F1) Map of Los Angeles highlighting Little Saigon. (pg. F5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MUSIC (88%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); TRENDS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); PORK (75%); FAST FOOD (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); REFUGEES (72%); AIR FORCES (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (70%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (70%); RICE FARMING (69%); COFFEE (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; VIETNAMESE-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MINORITIES (US); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; NYTRAVEL 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS OF THE VIETNAM WAR (59%)

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (94%); VIET NAM (94%) CALIFORNIA; WESTMINSTER (CALIF); ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



90 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Hybrid Arithmetic: Pay More, Fill Less

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW WALD 

 BODY:
FOR a vehicle designed primarily for policy wonks, the hybrid car is surprisingly cool. Hybrids, which use more than one power source (usually gasoline and electricity), are designed to be more environmentally friendly than gas-powered cars. But they also represent the vanguard of car technology and, with only two models on the road until recently, they were unquestionably exotic. 
 That has changed. Honda recently began offering a hybrid version of the ubiquitous Civic. The possibility that hybrids could become mainstream vehicles raises two complicated questions: do you try to save either your money or the planet? 
 The Civic offers an opportunity to compare hybrid and gasoline-only models. (Neither of the earlier hybrids, the Toyota Prius and the Honda Insight, come in a plain-vanilla version.) According to Honda, the new Civic hybrid will cost $19,990, about $1,500 more than the Civic EX, the most comparable gasoline-only model. Will that difference be made up at the gas pump? 
Ordinary cars burn gasoline in an internal combustion engine. The Civic hybrid has an internal combustion engine, but it also has an electric motor (actually a device that is both a motor and a generator), which assists the gasoline engine at high-load periods, like when a traffic light turns green. 
When the car stops at a red light, for example, the internal combustion engine stops. Touch the gas pedal, and the electric motor turns the internal combustion engine to start it instantly. This works better than the starter motor on a regular car because the hybrid's 13-horsepower electric motor is more powerful. 
Thirteen horses may not sound like much, but electric motors have very good torque, or pulling power, at low speeds, so that the hybrid will out-accelerate a conventional car going 0 to 30, according to Honda, and lag slightly going from 0 to 60. 
The interplay between the engine and the electric motor also means that a hybrid recharges without being plugged in. To decelerate, the driver steps on an ordinary looking brake pedal. Instead of engaging the brakes, the pedal engages the electric motor, which takes the car's momentum and converts it into electric current. The current is dumped back into the battery. The brakes are engaged only if the car decelerates sharply, so most of the energy wasted in braking in an ordinary car is recaptured in the hybrid.
This amounts to considerable savings on gasoline. The hybrid Civic is rated by the Environmental Protection Agency at 46 miles a gallon in the city, 51 on the highway. The conventional Civic gets 31 and 38 miles a gallon, respectively. 
But the question of whether hybrids save money is not simply about gas consumption. To measure the cost difference between the hybrid Civic and the EX, a spreadsheet was prepared by Daniel Goldman of New Energy Capital in Newton, Mass. 
Assuming that an owner drives the hybrid for 10 years an average of 12,000 miles a year, pays $1.50 a gallon for gas and borrows the extra $1,500 (for the cost of the car) at 3 percent on a three-year loan, and that the money could have earned 7 percent in the stock market, the Hybrid would save about $12 more than the EX. But when you calculate the present value of the $1,500 loan minus the money saved on gas, and invest the difference at 7 percent, the Hybrid costs about $274.74 more than the EX. The cost of gas will not have to rise too much for the car to break even. 
Some factors are not included in the spreadsheet. John Watts, a Honda spokesman, said that the company expected maintenance costs to be similar to the regular Civic's, until the hybrid's battery pack needed replacing (about 100,000 miles), estimated to cost $2,000, Mr. Watts said.
A proposed tax credit also comes into play: the House and Senate versions of the energy bill both include them. Some states offer a credit already; Arizona's is $3,000, Mr. Watts said. 
What may help tip the balance for some consumers are the environmental benefits. Both versions release extremely small amounts of smog-forming chemicals, but the hybrid releases less carbon dioxide. "It's hard to justify hybrids purely from a consumer economics' perspective," said John M. DeCicco, a senior fellow at Environmental Defense. "I'm sure some buyers will value saving more fuel, thereby reducing a key part of pollution, than they might value for pocketbook reasons alone."

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "A Tale of Two Hondas" list differences between Honda hybrids and Honda EX's. (Source: Daniel Goldman, New Energy Capital)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (72%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTRIC VEHICLES 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



91 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Market Struggles but Manages to End 4-Day Losing Streak

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks withstood a day of fluctuating prices and managed a modest advance yesterday as investors tussled with worries about the strength of the economic recovery and a profit warning from the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb.
 The buying, which ended a four-day losing streak for the Dow Jones industrial average, was mostly attributed to lower prices after two weeks of strong selling. 
 The market struggled to hold its gains largely because investors were uneasy about Bristol-Myers. As a drug stock, Bristol-Myers should be considered less risky during economic uncertainty. 
"It brings up the question of what is safe," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum.
The Dow closed up 36.88 points, or 0.4 percent, at 10,235.17. The blue chips had dropped 228.62 points, or 2.2 percent, over the previous four sessions.
The broader market also ended higher. The Nasdaq composite index rose 5.40 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,789.75, having declined 78.27 points Tuesday and Wednesday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 0.94 point, or 0.1 percent, to 1,126.34.
Analysts said the market would have a hard time sustaining an upturn as investors had little reason besides attractive prices to buy shares.
Investors are concerned that first-quarter earnings reports will be disappointing and that corporate outlooks will remain bleak. Tension in the Middle East has also heightened fears in the market that the conflict will lead to higher oil prices.
Bond prices were mixed. By late in the day, the two-year note fell 1/32, to 100 5/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.54 percent from 3.53 percent on Wednesday. The benchmark 10-year note rose 2/32, to a price of 97 1/32. Its yield dropped to 5.26 percent from 5.27 percent.
The 30-year bond rose 1/32, to 95 8/32. Its yield fell to 5.71 percent from 5.72.
"People get fed up with not making any money," said Gary Kaltbaum, market technician for Investors' Edge Partners in Orlando, Fla. "You are maybe getting some of that. I think the upside is limited."
Bristol-Myers plunged $5.55, or nearly 15 percent, to $32.15 after warning late Wednesday that its first-quarter and yearly earnings would miss analysts' expectations. Bristol-Myers expects 2002 profits to decline 25 percent to 30 percent. Other pharmaceutical issues declined, including Merck, which closed down $1.49, at $55.80.
Among the biggest gainers, Bed Bath & Beyond rose $2.12, to $33.71, after reporting fourth-quarter earnings that surpassed Wall Street's forecast by 2 cents a share and raising its yearly outlook.
General Motors advanced 79 cents, to $60.14, after Merrill Lynch raised its second-quarter and yearly earnings estimates for the company, citing increased expectations for G.M.'s North American production.
The technology sector, which many analysts predict will be the last to recover, had the hardest time achieving its slim gain.
"Technology is not ready yet to be a leadership sector," Mr. Hyman said.
Microsoft rose 12 cents, to $56.45, despite news that its president and chief operating officer, Rick Belluzzo, was stepping down and that a company revamping would eliminate his job. A. G. Edwards upgraded Microsoft's shares to buy from hold.
I.B.M. advanced 88 cents, to $100.84, rebounding from two days of losses after Goldman, Sachs cut its first-quarter revenue estimate.
The Russell 2000 index, the barometer of smaller company stocks, rose 1.77, or 0.4 percent, to 498.37.
Declining stocks were even with advancers on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume came to 1.29 billion shares on the New York Stock Exchange, up slightly from 1.22 billion shares on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" shows stocks with large price percentage gains and losses for the day. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Blomberg News, Dow Jones, Reuters); "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since December 2001. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (85%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (85%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (50%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (50%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



92 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Poznan Journal; 
Polish Hip-Hop Rocks the Homies on the Blok

BYLINE:  By PETER S. GREEN 

DATELINE: POZNAN, Poland 

 BODY:
The view from Freedom Street in a Poznan housing project is not pretty. Unemployment in this relatively prosperous city 100 miles from the German border is near 20 percent. Drug use and petty crime are rife. Inflation is high, the underpaid police are generally regarded as corrupt, and the local Roman Catholic archbishop is in disgrace for allegedly molesting seminarians.
 In a ground-floor apartment here, Peja, Doniu, a couple of guys named Jacek and a tough-looking youth who calls himself Liber are discussing the local hip-hop scene in the four clean, cramped rooms where "D.J. Decks" -- a k a Dariusz Dzialek -- lives with his mother. 
 "It's absolutely sure that if I wasn't rapping, I'd be stealing," said Peja, Poland's leading hip-hop artist. "A lot of people think Polish hip-hop is only about the street, but we are talking about ourselves, our relationships, other problems."
To the hundreds of thousands of young Poles with little prospect of a good job or a secure future, Peja -- real name Ryszard Andrzejewski -- and dozens of other hip-hop rhymers who have emerged in the past several years are their generation's poets, expressing the hopes and despair of young men in the Polish projects.
They are known as "blokersi" (pronounced bloh-CARE-zhee) for the housing projects or "bloki" that circumscribe their lives. Day after day, they sit outside their cracking concrete towers, drinking vodka and beer, hanging around and looking for ways to make some cash. In winter, they favor the stairwells.
In some ways, the scene is a measure of how far Poland has traveled in the dozen years since the fall of a Communist system in which everyone worked even if the work was meaningless. The disillusionment of the jobless, and the way they express it, has clear parallels in the capitalist societies of the United States and western Europe.
The bloki of Freedom Street are a long way from the South Bronx, but the seething anger of young men facing an uncertain future is the same. So here in the all-white, all-Catholic, family-centered housing projects of Poland's inner cities, hip-hop has found a new audience.
"Hip-hop is the only electric current of culture," said Sylwester Latkowski, whose recent documentary on the Polish hip-hop scene was a big hit in movie theaters here last fall. "It's the only thing that reflects what young people really feel."
Hip-hop, Mr. Latkowski said, is a natural response to Poland's haphazard transition from Communism to free-market democracy.
"Throughout the period of transition, neighborhoods come up that are black holes -- bad schools, no cops, no playgrounds, graffiti, drugs," he said. "The only thing the government has done is proposed lowering the age of criminal responsibility so they can be sent to jail sooner."
Hip-hop is generally considered to have come to Poland courtesy of Bogna Swiatkowska, who spent a year traveling around the United States after Communism fell in 1989.
In 1993, she hosted a show about black American culture on one of Poland's first private radio stations. Soon, Ms. Swiatkowska recalled, young Poles were lining the studio corridors, begging her to play their own homemade hip-hop tapes.
Language, she said, was no barrier. "They are angry, too," she said of young Poles. "They don't have to understand the words. They can see it."
Today Polish hip-hop groups sell about 100,000 CD's a year to mostly impoverished fans, who buy about three times more pirated hip-hop disks at street kiosks, according to recording industry estimates.
The popularity appears driven by despair. "These aren't songs about a woman dancing or flowers growing," said Marcin Rapczynski, a 24-year-old aspiring rhymer who calls himself "Siwy," or Blondie, from Brodno, a grim sprawl of concrete-panel "bloki" on Warsaw's northern edge. "It's real."
"These young members of the culture don't know or don't care about the outside," said Arek Delis, editor of the glossy monthly hip-hop magazine Klan. "For many young people this seems to be the only escape from the stealing and dealing they see going on outside their windows."
Part of the appeal, Peja said, lies in the abundance of material and the lowest cost of making a hip-hop record. Turntables and a personal computer in a friend's bedroom suffice as a recording studio. Records cost as little as about $1,000 to make -- and rarely bring in more than about $2,500, said Mr. Delis, who also has his own record company.
While Polish hip-hop's anger may echo that of urban African-American youths, the lyrics barely touch on familiar American themes of police violence or racism (Poland is virtually all-white). Fancy cars, guns and gold chains are not part of the picture -- given the relatively small potential market in this country of 39 million, and the relative poverty of most fans, riches are out of the question.
Instead, hip-hop here celebrates the grimness of life in the bloki. Occasionally, the songs stray into political territory, bemoaning widespread corruption or efforts to join the European Union, a step that many in the Bloki believe will drive up prices more and drive away jobs.
Rhymers like Peja say they don't want to get rich fast, or even get out of the bloki, clinging instead to the life they know and casting themselves in the tradition of Poland's most famous 19th-century poet, Adam Mickiewicz, and the "Mloda Polska," or Young Poland movement that defined the country's national image in the decades before Poland won freedom in 1918.
"If Mickiewicz was alive today, he'd be a good rhymer," Doniu said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Polish hip-hoppers, from left, Peja, D.J. Decks, Wisniowy, Silent, Donik and Mejger, at the housing project where they live in Poznan, Poland. "It's absolutely sure that if I wasn't rapping, I'd be stealing," Peja said. (Piotr Malecki for The New York Times) Map of Poland highlighting Poznan: The unemployment rate in Poznan is nearly 20 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (91%); MISDEMEANORS (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FILM (73%); CITIES (73%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); TRENDS (62%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%) UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GREEN, PETER S 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (95%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%); WESTERN EUROPE (52%) POLAND; POZNAN (POLAND)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



93 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Extension of Benefits Contributes To an Increase in Jobless Claims

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
The number of Americans who filed initial claims for state unemployment benefits surged last week to the highest level in four months, the Labor Department said today. A law enacted last month permitted workers whose benefits had expired to apply for an extension. 
 State unemployment offices received 460,000 new applications last week, up 64,000 in the week that ended Saturday, the Labor Department said. A week earlier, initial claims rose 20,000. 
 The law, signed by President Bush on March 9, was intended to help cushion the blow of the recession that started last year. Analysts said the resulting jump in claims in the last two weeks was masking a slow improvement in labor markets. Unemployment fell in February to a four-month low of 5.5 percent.
"This is just a bad number," said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research. "The labor market is slowly but surely improving. That's the true trend."
Joblessness typically rises for several months after the economy rebounds because most companies hold off hiring until they are certain the recovery will be sustained.
Under the new law, workers whose 26 weeks of benefits have run out are eligible to receive another 13 weeks of assistance. Some 116,860 Americans had filed for an extension as of March 16, according to 22 states that have reported so far.
Last week's level of claims was the highest since 480,000 in the week that ended Dec. 1. 
The four-week moving average of claims, which smooths out volatility in the weekly numbers, rose to 403,750 last week from 384,000.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graphs shows the 4 week moving average.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



94 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Columbia Gets Star Professor From Harvard 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Columbia University announced yesterday that it had poached another star economist from a major university, this time from Harvard, which has already been roiled by threats of defection by prominent professors.
 The newly recruited professor, Jeffrey D. Sachs, a prominent figure in international economics, had been at Harvard since he entered as a freshman 29 years ago. The opportunities offered by Columbia could not be matched at Harvard, Mr. Sachs said, adding that he was leaving his alma mater reluctantly. 
 In an interview, Mr. Sachs anticipated conjecture that he had run into the sort of conflicts with Lawrence H. Summers, Harvard's president, that recently alienated several celebrated scholars in Harvard's Afro-American Studies Department.
"I am an enormous admirer of Larry Summers," Mr. Sachs said. "We were in graduate school together and got tenure on the same day in 1983. We taught together, and while we have had disagreements, I left because he could not bring to Cambridge what Columbia and New York had to offer."
Columbia has been trying to regain its old glory as a teaching and research center in economics, a status it enjoyed a generation ago. Last year, it hired Joseph E. Stiglitz, a prominent Stanford economist, who joined the faculty last July and in October won a Nobel Prize. Now Mr. Sachs, 47, is joining Columbia with four titles, at a salary reported to be more than $300,000 a year, not counting benefits, which are still to be negotiated. 
The chief title he will bear, director of Columbia's Earth Institute, plays to Mr. Sachs's strength as an expert in the economies of developing countries and an outspoken advocate of policies that alleviate third world poverty. 
He has argued, for example, that if the industrial countries contributed 1 cent to a health fund out of every $10 of national income, $25 billion would be raised, saving millions of lives.
In a statement, Mr. Summers said that he would miss Mr. Sachs, but "the opportunity he is pursuing at the United Nations and Columbia is a very special one." Last December, Kofi Annan, the secretary-general of the United Nations, made Mr. Sachs a special adviser with the title of under-secretary general, giving him the task, as Mr. Sachs put it, of organizing an international response to poverty. That new role was an additional reason for coming to New York, Mr. Sachs said.
The Earth Institute -- providing Mr. Sachs with an operating budget of $10 million to $15 million annually, the university said -- is a relatively new operation at Columbia, organized several years ago by Michael Crowe, Columbia's executive provost. Mr. Crowe recruited Mr. Sachs away from Harvard, where he has been the director of its much smaller Center for International Development.
"What Columbia is offering through the Earth Institute," Mr. Sachs said, "is a chance to pursue my commitment to sustainable economic development in the third world on a scale that does not exist at any other academic center in the world."
The institute, financed partly through federal subsidies, draws on the resources of other organizations at Columbia, among them the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. Its goal, according to Mr. Crowe and to George Rupp, Columbia's president, is to integrate economics, natural sciences, environmental concerns, public health and similar disciplines.
"We are very interested in building up the economics department," Mr. Rupp said, "but the genius of Jeff Sachs is that he connects development economics with physical sciences and the biological sciences that the Earth Institute represents."
Mr. Sachs, a frequent adviser to governments in the developing world and an early architect of Russian economic policy when Boris Yeltsin was leading the country into capitalism, comes to Columbia with the additional titles of professor in the Schools of Arts and Science, International and Public Affairs, and Public Health, commencing on July 1, when he finishes up at Harvard. 
His peaceful parting from that university and kind words for Mr. Summers were in sharp contrast to the criticism that both Mr. Sachs and Mr. Stiglitz, equally renowned in international economics, leveled at Mr. Summers when he was treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. With Mr. Summers taking the lead, the administration insisted during the Asian economic crisis in the late 1990's that the suffering nations raise interest rates and cut government spending -- austerity measures that in the view of Mr. Sachs and Mr. Stiglitz only increased the hardship and added to unemployment.
Shifting from Washington to Cambridge last year as Harvard's latest president, Mr. Summers suddenly became Mr. Sachs's boss and they apparently buried their feud. "Larry has personally given me full support and my development agenda full support," Mr. Sachs said.
But Mr. Summers soon came into conflict with Cornel West and other black professors, including Henry Louis Gates Jr., chairman of the Afro-American Studies Department. They differed over research procedures, among other issues, and Mr. Summers made amends. But a black professor of philosophy, K. Anthony Appiah, resigned to go to Princeton, and Dr. West has talked of shifting to Princeton.
Columbia rolled out all the drums for Mr. Sachs. The university offered statements of praise not only from Mr. Rupp, the outgoing president, but from Lee C. Bollinger, who will soon replace him. Star economists rarely shift universities and now Columbia, offering top salaries, has lured two in its effort to rebuild its economics team and rank once again alongside Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, M.I.T. and the University of Chicago.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Columbia University's hiring of a renowned economist, Jeffrey D. Sachs, misspelled the surname and misstated the title of the Columbia administrator who recruited Mr. Sachs away from Harvard. He is Michael Crow, not Crowe. He is executive vice provost, not executive provost.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey D. Sachs 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (86%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); TRENDS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (51%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; HARVARD UNIVERSITY; UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS; SACHS, JEFFREY D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); EARTH (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



95 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: Telecom Concern Cuts Jobs 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
Time Warner Telecom said today that it had released 140 employees, partly because of the sluggish economy, and had no further market expansion plans. 
 In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company, which is based in Littleton, Colo., and is partly owned by AOL Time Warner, said it expected to employ about 2,200 people after the release of the workers. 
 Time Warner Telecom said that over the last two years the company had expanded its reach to 44 markets from 21, but that it had no immediate plans for further expansion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: TW TELECOM INC (90%); AOL INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) TIME WARNER TELECOM INC 

TICKER: TWTC (NASDAQ) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



96 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: VOICES; 
New Yorkers Tell of Fear, Anger and Fatigue Over Mideast

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Like a relentless drama too painful to watch but too compelling to turn away from, the conflict in the Middle East has put knots in New York-area residents' stomachs and suicide bombers in their nightmares. The turmoil is geographically distant, they say, but with its echoes of Sept. 11, and its passion, it is emotionally all too close. 
 People interviewed yesterday -- Arab-Americans, Jews and others -- talked of hopelessness, fear and anger, and the need for America to take a leadership role to try to end what looks increasingly like war. 
 Most had not yet seen or heard about President Bush's speech. Those who did gave it mixed reviews. 
Bassem Nassar, 30, an unemployed marketing professional who was born in Lebanon, said it came too late. "He gave the green light to Sharon to do whatever he wanted in the last six days," Mr. Nassar said, referring to the Israeli prime minister. "The U.S. is behind the curve," he said, pointing to European criticism of Israel's incursion into Palestinian cities.
Jay Hecht, assistant to the superintendent of Community School District 3 in Manhattan, disagreed, calling the speech the first bright spot in days of gloom. "I'm just heartbroken about what's going on there," he said, adding that he thought Israel's very existence was at stake. 
"I'm hopeful the president recognizes he has to apply some pressure" to both sides, Mr. Hecht said.
Mostafa Abou, 29, a lanky Egyptian who works as a waiter at the Bedouin Tent restaurant in the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn, said he would reserve judgment, having been "very disappointed" in Mr. Bush's previous speech, which he considered biased toward Israel. Their differences started with semantics: Mr. Abou saw the Palestinians Mr. Bush called terrorists as fighters against an occupying army.
Mr. Abou's customers are Jews, Arab-Americans, Christians and more, a reminder that New Yorkers continue to coexist peacefully here. 
But some said they did not know how long the conflict could be kept at a distance. Dianne Lamonica, 45, works at an antique store in an Arab stretch of Cobble Hill and eats at the Bedouin Tent. "I try not to let these feelings influence me," she said, but confessed that when she sees an "Arab gentleman on the subway" carrying a large bag, she worries.
Some expressed simple impatience with intractability. Jose Lopez, 37, a mechanic in Paterson, N.J., who is originally from Puerto Rico, said he was tiring of the seemingly endless cycle of violent responses on both sides. 
"That's all you hear on the news," he said. "It get to a point where all you hear the same thing, the same thing, and you don't want to look at the TV. Those people, I hope they make peace quick."
He expressed bafflement at suicide bombers: "These people got to start getting real. You want to take your own life, go by yourself."
Sasson Nabi, 64, wakes up every day trying to think of a solution. Each day, he realizes there isn't one. A Jew from Iraq who built a career as a financial consultant in New York, he has grown depressed watching the region where he grew up darken with violence. 
"I don't want anyone to be killed," he said. "I don't want anyone to suffer unless there is a good reason. And there is no good reason there. In my belief, both sides are really losers."
Sowmya Parthasarathy, 34, an Indian architect and city planner, has been racking her brain, too, for an answer, saying that her sympathies switch sides almost daily. 
"It's heartbreaking," she said. The question, she said, is, "What is the way to stop the killing? That's just paramount." 
A number of people said the events of last week had shifted their views, radically or by degrees. Kelly Spitler, who owns a business, OfficeMavens, in Brooklyn, said Mr. Bush needed to recognize that the Israelis also bore responsibility for events, and that "the Palestinians are sort of getting a raw deal." She may have thought that before, she said, but she never would have said it until now.
Sheri Stein, 49, a Brooklyn writer, said that for the first time this week, she had concluded that Israel "can't go on like this -- it's an untenable situation."
"They don't want to feel like they're giving up because of terrorists," she said, "but on the other hand they can't just kill all the Palestinians. That's not going to work. Something has to change."
Arnie Mansdorf, 45, a New York City social studies teacher, said everything he taught his children had been based on "the joy of meeting other people." But he said: "I've been wondering about the validity of the lessons I've taught my three children. What kind of people sacrifice their own children to bombings?"
The very nature of suicide bombings seems to have set New Yorkers on edge. "There's nothing you can do," Ms. Stein said. "There's sort of a human pact based on the notion that no one wants to die -- but if they do?" 
Emily Giannussa, a 16-year-old from Midwood, Brooklyn, was standing in line at Tower Records on Broadway waiting to get a CD signed by the singer Lisa Loeb and worrying about how easily someone could throw a bomb into the crowd.
"Wherever there are people, they could throw a bomb," she said. "There's just not enough security to cover everything. Someone can still walk in and blow themselves up. But there's nothing we can do about it."
Mr. Hecht, the school official, said the Mideast violence was wearing on young students still recovering from Sept. 11, and wearing on him, too. 
"When you turn the news off every evening, you're left with a fear," Mr. Hecht said. "When is this going to end?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bassem Nassar, 30, handing out pamplets for a pro-Palestinian rally in the lobby of a Brooklyn mosque: "The U.S. is behind the curve."; Jay Hecht, a Manhattan school official: "When you turn the news off every evening you're left with a fear. When is this going to end?"; Sheri Stein, 49, a Brooklyn writer: "There's sort of a human pact based on the notion that no one wants to die -- but if they do?" (Photographs by Suzanne Dechillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ARAB AMERICANS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); RELIGION (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HIJACKING (67%); CITIES (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (52%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (52%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARAB-AMERICANS; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (79%); LEBANON (79%) ISRAEL; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



97 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: The President Steps In 

 BODY:
With Israeli tanks ripping through every West Bank city, Palestinian gunmen barricaded in the Church of the Nativity, Lebanese radicals shooting into northern Israel and civilians afraid of stepping into the street, the Middle East is under an intolerable siege of violence. Only the United States can force the sides back from the brink. After an agonizing week of contradictory signals, the Bush administration stepped forward yesterday to do just that with a pointed and powerful speech by the president. It came none too soon and, we hope, not too late.
 In reversing himself and announcing that Secretary of State Colin Powell would go to the region next week, President Bush did not flinch from spelling out truths that all sides in the region seek to avoid but that need to be stated explicitly. The Palestinians must abandon their twisted devotion to suicide bombing or watch their hopes for a state blow up with their young. The Israelis must withdraw their military from the West Bank, stop humiliating their neighbors and accept that peace can come only from an end to occupation. The Arab states must fight terror, promote economic development in Palestine and move forward with their recent offer to recognize Israel. Finally, Iran had better stop arming Palestinian Islamic militants and Syria needs to decide which side in this quite serious war on terror it is on. 
 That, in sum, is Mr. Bush's newly articulated vision for how to move forward in the Middle East, and we welcome it. It clarifies what was a rather confused policy until now and signals a reversal of an ill-advised hands-off approach that characterized his first 14 months in office. It was always illusory to think that the Palestinians and Israelis needed simply to tire of their mutual antagonism before returning to negotiations. Firm, focused American intervention over a period of months is the only path, and Mr. Bush appears now to grasp that difficult truth.
Only last Saturday, in the wake of four suicide bombings inside Israel, Mr. Bush was expressing understanding for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's decision to call up 20,000 reserve soldiers and root out Palestinian terrorist networks that the Palestinian Authority had permitted -- if not encouraged -- to flourish. No one could blame Israel for its fury, but the decision to mount a major military offensive was a bad one.
The sense in the White House now is that in the last week, Israel has had a chance to make its military point and round up suspected terrorists. At the same time, the Egyptians have downgraded their relations with Israel; the Jordanians, with rioting in the streets to demand that the Israeli ambassador be sent packing, may do the same; and the Lebanese border has again grown dangerous. In other words, a tipping point is being reached. Israel has a right to defend itself against terror, the administration is saying, but not at the cost of regional chaos.
Secretary Powell has the unenviable task of seeking to persuade the leaders of the region to take painful but necessary steps. If Mr. Powell is to make progress, Mr. Sharon must begin immediately to withdraw his military from the West Bank and link a political solution to a cease-fire. As to the Palestinians, real leadership, not overheated talk of victimhood, is required to end terror and restart negotiations. Other Arab leaders, notably President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and King Abdullah of Jordan, can help Mr. Powell by pressing the Palestinians to end their terror attacks and start building better relations with Israel.
This process is not going to be easy or fast. It will require enormous patience and work by all parties, including the Bush administration. A fine vision has been laid out. Without a sustained effort, however, the vision will not be realized. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); RIOTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); ARMIES (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); RELIGION (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) EDITORIALS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



98 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Terror: What Is the Goal? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 One quotation in William Safire's April 4 column about his conversation with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon provides a productive possibility for peace in the Middle East: "I see a Marshall Plan for Palestine -- call it the Bush-Sharon plan -- to solve your problem of unemployment." 
 A large-scale, American-sponsored economic development program for the Palestinians, financed by the United States, Arab countries and the European Union, could create business and industrial opportunities. 
Such a program, combined with political and diplomatic initiatives, might be our appropriate response to the parties at this critical moment. 
A special economic authority could be set up to oversee the development program, perhaps organized by the United Nations.

MARTIN F. SCHWARTZ
Greenwich, Conn., April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); TRENDS (65%) PALESTINIANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); SCHWARTZ, MARTIN F; SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



99 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: A Word From Trenton Translates Into 3: Higher Local Taxes 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 4 

 BODY:
Here in New Jersey's capital, governors and lawmakers don't even suggest raising taxes, no matter how dire the state's finances, as Gov. James E. McGreevey's new budget plan makes clear. But out in the towns and counties, where the better part of a voter's taxes are paid, local officials are projecting property tax increases on a scale not seen in 10 years. 
 New Jersey already has the highest per-capita property taxes in the nation. And in the spring ritual of presenting next year's budgets, including the school budgets that will go before voters on April 16, almost all towns are proposing increases in tax rates; a few are expected to raise the average tax bill by nearly $1,000. 
 The political heat is applied directly to local officials. Dave Fried, the mayor of Washington Township, near Trenton, said the last few weeks had been tough. "You wear a baseball cap when you go to the store," he said.
The local officials say they have no options, because the governor has proposed freezing state aid to local governments at its current level.
Mr. Fried said that many residents were dismayed, because when they moved into the township's proliferating new subdivisions they had no idea that the surge in school enrollment would drive up their taxes. The owner of a typical new house in Washington Township, with four bedrooms and two baths, pays $8,000 to $10,000 in property taxes and could expect to pay $16,000 in five years, he said.
Mayor Shing-Fu Hsueh of West Windsor, another fast-growing township, said local officials were trapped. "We cannot just go on like this," he said. "We feel totally powerless."
The immediate cause of the pain, made clear in the governor's budget address last week, is the freeze of state aid to local governments and school districts, a plan Mr. McGreevey hinted at even while campaigning last year on a pledge to ease New Jersey's property tax burden.
Other aggravating factors have converged: school enrollments have grown more than 5 percent in the last three years; swelling residential development has strained local resources; and rising property values have meant rising assessments. In addition, the cost of health care benefits for public employees has risen, and premiums for municipal liability insurance shot up after Sept. 11. 
But underlying all these is the persistent problem of how to tax people who have tried to move away from commercial and industrial development, only to find that they need it to pay the local freight. More and more, New Jersey is suburbia writ large, a skein of bedroom communities. And much more than most states, New Jersey relies on the property tax. In 1998, the last year for which figures are available, the average per-capita property tax payment was $1,744; income and sales taxes, combined, were less than $1,600. 
Hardly anyone is escaping the squeeze this spring. In Glen Ridge, an established North Jersey suburb whose school system has drawn affluent young families, the average property tax bill this year is $10,497. Voters have already approved a school bond that will add $300 to that bill; the proposed school budget would add $640 more; and the proposed municipal budget $97. 
In the South Jersey town of Pine Hill, where the average house is valued at less than $100,000, the proposed school tax increase would add $885 to the average homeowner's current bill of $3,191. . That is just the base school budget; in separate ballot questions, voters will be asked for even more. 
Englewood is asking for a 5 percent increase in school taxes in a budget that, to avoid a larger increase, would also cut 90 teachers and staff members. The proposed municipal budget would increase the tax rate by 3 percent. The average property tax bill in the city last year was $7,020.
"I think that when the dust settles, we will see some of the highest property tax increases we have seen in New Jersey in the last 10 years," said Robert A. DeSando, the director of government relations at the New Jersey School Boards Association.
The association, in compiling reports from about half of the state's 602 school districts, found most asking for increases that would raise the average homeowner's bill by several hundred dollars.
"A district that has been able to keep the tax rate stable is truly an exception to the rule," Mr. DeSando said, "and they were probably able to do that by spending down their surplus."
Most municipal and county budgets have not been adopted yet, although they are not subject to the voters' approval, so it is too early to say how many will raise rates. But municipal and county taxes together account for only about 30 percent of the total property tax, while the rest goes to schools.
In the expanding economy of the 1990's, state aid to towns and school districts generally rose to keep pace with inflation.
As state tax receipts exceeded estimates in the late 1990's, Gov. Christie Whitman, who took office in 1994, also started issuing property-tax rebates that further insulated officials in Trenton from taxpayer resentment.
Mr. McGreevey's budget continues the rebates, although they are frozen at last year's levels, at an average of $500. The average property tax bill statewide was $4,651 last year.
The statewide average property tax rate, a measure of local taxes used by the state government, was $2.32 per $100 of valuation in 2000, the last year for which statistics are available. Since 1992, when the rate rose nearly 12 percent, to $2.02 from $1.81, the rate has shifted between $2.02 and $2.46. In no single year did the increase reach 5 percent.
Some school districts are now proposing rate increases of $1 or more, and scores of districts are asking for rate increases higher than 10 cents -- by itself, more than a 4 percent increase. 
Ron Grayzel, a school board member in Metuchen, said his district needed a 6.3 percent rate increase. "That's modest when you look at other districts," he said, "but not when you're the taxpayer." 
In Glen Ridge, Jacqueline Yustein is one such taxpayer, and the proposed school budget for next year would raise her property taxes to about $17,000 for her Tudor house, which she describes as "not huge." 
"My husband and I just had a long talk," Ms. Yustein said. They have all but decided, she said, to move when her husband retires in two years.
"I don't know what the solution is," she said, "other than, when I get close to $20,000, I don't want to pay it."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2002

 CORRECTION:
CORRECTION -- Property Taxes
A graph yesterday tracing changes in local property tax rates in New Jersey understated the averages since 1982. Here is a corrected version.

Chart: "Property Taxes"
Graph shows the average local tax rate per $100 of valuation since 1992.

The figures combine county, municipal and school taxes and have been adjusted to make years comparable.

(Source: Center for Government Services, Rutgers University)

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TREND -- Property Taxes"Local officials are predicting that the average rate in New Jersey will rise more than it has since 1992, when it rose nearly 12 percent. Graph shows the average local tax rate per $100 of valuation from 1982 to 2000. The figures combine county, municipal and school taxes and have been adjusted to make years comparable.(Source: Center for Government Services, Rutgers University)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC ENTITY LIABILITY INSURANCE (77%); SUBURBS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (60%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



100 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Report Says 10 Percent of Jobs Lost Post-Sept. 11 Were in Chinatown 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
The effects of the World Trade Center attack on Chinatown included layoffs of about one-fourth of the area's 34,000 workers, and economic ripples in Queens and Brooklyn, according to a report released yesterday.
 Chinatown accounts for 1 percent of New York City's employment -- with half of those workers living outside Manhattan -- but 10 percent of the jobs lost in the city in the three months after Sept. 11, the report said. That amounts to about 7,500 of the 75,000 jobs lost in that period, the authors of the report said. 
 While the facts are interesting, what is more interesting is the existence of the report, a tool in Chinatown's attempt to gain a voice in the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan. Until now, much information about Chinatown's economy has been anecdotal and difficult to collect, because its immigrant economy is largely insular and cash-based. This report is arguably the most comprehensive economic analysis in the history of the more than 150-year-old neighborhood. 
Drawing on data from government, business surveys, newspaper reports and charitable organizations, the Asian American Federation of New York, a nonprofit public policy group, spent three months putting together a 60-page glossy report detailing the rates of unemployment, business closings, and lost revenues in Chinatown in the three months after Sept. 11.
"It will be a map and a guidebook for getting attention and support that are needed here," said C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president. 
Chief among Chinatown's priorities is gaining a representative on the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which is in charge of the rebuilding effort. In addition, Chinatown's leaders have been frustrated that the line for economic aid has often been drawn at Canal Street, the northern border used to define the zone of the most severe restrictions after the attack, but one that slices through the heart of the neighborhood and neglects many of those in need.
The report estimates that wages lost after the attack totaled $114 million. In garment manufacturing, Chinatown's largest industry, 40 out of 246 factories have closed because of the sagging retail economy and restrictions on trucking, the report said. Details of the long-term impact of Sept. 11 are a bit murkier, since much of the information dates from December. The community, less than a half-mile from ground zero, was paralyzed in the immediate aftermath of the attack, when large swaths of the neighborhood were closed by the police. Businesses suffered from telephone and electricity cutoffs. 
When asked yesterday about what could be done for the unemployed in Chinatown, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg pointed to the hotline and Web site the city has set up (in English) to help job seekers. 
"You want to have an advertising campaign, and we will focus that campaign on those communities where it is hard to get to," he said.
However, some neighborhood leaders feel that Web sites will not help much. Chinatown is a largely working-class community that is not particularly Internet-savvy. Most people speak little English, and the going weekly wage in most industries was about $350 before Sept. 11, the report said.
The situation in Chinatown nearly seven months after the attacks is mixed. Among the businesses hardest hit are jewelry stores. The garmet factories that remain have seen orders increase. 
One building at 265 Canal Street used to have 10 garment factories. Since Sept. 11, four of them have shut down. Now many are working at or near capacity, partly because others have closed.
One company, Bottoms Up, laid off 12 of its 56 employees after Sept. 11. But orders have started to come back in. The owner, Peter Wong, rehired those workers and has expanded the work force to 65. He has also taken over the lease of the factory next door, which went out of business. 
But workers who have not been able to get rehired still feel the strain. Wai Chun Ng, who is 62 and has four children, lost her garment job when her factory closed after Sept. 11. Her husband, also a former garment worker, has been retired for four years, so their 24-year-old daughter, who works part time at a hospital, supports the family.
Ms. Ng has been careful to budget, buying things on sale. If she buys meat, she also has to be economical. "Chicken is cheap," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Business is slow on Mott Street, left, in Chinatown, a neighborhood that lost one-fourth of its workers after Sept. 11. 195 Dragon Jewelry on Canal Street laid off three of its six employees. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TERRORISM (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); CHARITIES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WRITERS (70%); MAYORS (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); APPAREL MFG (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%) LABOR; CHINESE-AMERICANS; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: ;ASIAN AMERICAN FEDERATION; LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



101 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1976 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; A Buick? You Must Be New To These Parts 

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
DO you long to be part of the in crowd in Midland, Tex.? Drive a Chevrolet Suburban. One of every five Suburbans sold in the United States last year went to a resident of the Lone Star State.
 Want to make your own defiant personal statement in Detroit? Buy a Honda Accord. Though it was the best-selling car in the nation last year, it has not made much of a dent in the home of the American auto industry. 
 Or perhaps you want the perfect spot for your "Rosie: You Go Girl!" bumper sticker in Boulder, Colo., or Portland, Ore.? Then head right over to your Subaru dealer. 
Regional differences in the United States tend to be thought of mostly in terms of funny accents or food. (A hoagie? A hero? A grinder? A sub?) Or in how people vote, whether they carry guns or in how cold they think cold really is.
But the people who make, advertise and sell cars have long known that a map of the country can also be parsed another way, sometimes with unerring accuracy and unlikely results: by what people drive.
In West Texas, a car dealer gazes out over his lot and explains why you really should not call him a car dealer. There are seven cars, surrounded by a hundred pickups and Chevrolet Suburbans. "The only people around here who buy cars," said the dealer, Teddy Willis, "are high school kids -- sometimes."
In Boulder, six of the 13 employees of the branch office of the Wilderness Society own Subarus. ("Kind of funny, isn't it," one said.) And Mercedes-Benz is so strong in Los Angeles and the rest of Southern California that nearly one of every five sales made by the company in the United States is made in the region, giving verisimilitude to the old joke that the "Mercedes is the Chevy of Beverly Hills."
Some of the nation's automotive schisms are well known, of course, and stand to reason. Gas-hungry cars like Buicks and Cadillacs sell better in states with lower gas prices. German cars do not sell well among Jewish retirees in Florida. Pickups sell better in farm country, and four-wheel drives in snowy or mountainous places.
But explaining why Hondas are as plentiful as baked beans in Boston or why new Cadillac Escalades are popping up all around Brooklyn is not always so easy. Even car marketing executives, who spend their days endlessly polling the buying public, are often frustrated, surprised or mystified by the tenacity of regional differences.
Why, for example, does the Suburban, once called the "national car of Texas" by Texas Monthly magazine, remain so popular there? It certainly has something to do with its ability to carry your entire Little League team while simultaneously using four-wheel drive to tow your horses down a muddy farm road.
Dan Wall, a West Texas farmer who has owned four Suburbans since the mid-1980's, said the appeal for him -- and for other rugged individualists in Texas -- had never been trendiness. If anything, Texans shudder to think about how many other people are driving Suburbans. 
"I wasn't trying to keep up with the Joneses when I bought it," Mr. Wall said when he was reached by cellphone aboard his tractor outside Plains, a small town near Lubbock. "I just don't like cars. They're too low to the ground."
But Prof. Michael Marsden, an authority on car culture, said that the identification between place and car had always been stronger than most car owners realized. "Think about the Jeep Cherokee," he said. "It was first associated with the leisure economy of the ski country. When you move that vehicle out of that environment and into another, it takes that regional association with it. People buy it in a city and it says, 'My other home is up in the mountains.' "
(Professor Marsden, a provost and vice president at Eastern Kentucky University, kept his Jeep Grand Wagoneer when he moved from Michigan to Kentucky. "People in Kentucky look at me like I'm goofy," he said.)
Other associations between car and place, however, seem to have sprung up almost preternaturally. Why does Subaru do so well in Portland, upstate New York and Boulder?
In the Denver and Boulder area, the Subaru Legacy was the fifth-most-popular new car last year, according to R. L. Polk & Company, beaten only by mass-market favorites like the Accord and the Chevrolet Silverado pickup.
Part of the appeal, of course, is practicality. Subarus are relatively inexpensive and have all-wheel-drive systems that perform well in rugged terrain. But that does not really explain why they are also so popular among lesbian drivers. (Subaru has even capitalized on that demand, producing television advertisements with Martina Navratilova.)
Another example is Saab, the Swedish carmaker now owned by General Motors: Saab has long been extremely popular only in the Northeast. The company's officials explain that Saabs do well in cold weather and were first sold in New England.
But not even Saab is completely sure why two-thirds of its owners have dogs, why many are classical music lovers and why they are the group of American car buyers with the highest percentage of households connected to the Internet. (The Internet percentages for Cadillac, Lincoln and Buick buyers are among the lowest, partly because they attract the oldest buyers.)
As a spokeswoman for Saab, Tiffany Cook, put it, the image of the Saab driver is still that of "a pipe-smoking Dartmouth professor," despite growing sales in Texas and California.
"The Midwest is still pretty barren for us, except for Chicago," she said. "We're really trying to break out of that." So much so, in fact, that the company negotiated the placement of a Saab in an upcoming Reese Witherspoon movie called "Sweet Home Alabama," about a New York socialite who has to confront her rustic past in the South.
By and large, both the Saab and Suburban statistics conform with an overall national portrait that car experts say still largely holds true: Asian car brands hold sway on the West Coast, European brands on the East Coast and domestic makes in most places in between, with big cities having degrees of all three.
"I can go here for a day or two and not see a Honda or a Toyota," said Tom Libby, a director of industry analysis for J. D. Power & Associates in Detroit, which compiles sales data from dealers across the country, "whereas at a stoplight in California, I might not see a single domestic model anywhere around. "
For example, J. D. Power found that so far this year, two Honda models and a Toyota were the top-selling cars around San Francisco but that the list was topped by four Ford models, one after the other, around Cleveland.
While many other large cities with large immigrant populations have mixes of imports and domestics, the Chicago area seems to have remained a domestic bastion, with top sales this year going to Jeep, Chevrolet, Pontiac, Ford and Dodge.
R. L. Polk, which collects auto registration numbers nationwide, has found -- not a big surprise -- that domestic cars are the most plentiful in Alpena, Mich., on Lake Huron, where only 4 percent of car registrations are for imports, and least plentiful in Honolulu, where almost 64 percent are imports.
Automotive economists stress that the usual boundary lines on sales maps are not nearly as well defined as they once were. Cities' demographics are changing more rapidly, and the nation's car buyers, more of them women now, are increasingly willing to switch brands. 
But car makers still pore over their maps when deciding how to sell cars. To some extent, experts and dealers say, the differences around the nation can be as much a creation of the sellers as the buyers.
"The manufacturers tend to send cars to the areas where they know they are doing well," said Mr. Libby, "and so the popularity of a model can be a self-perpetuating thing."
Mr. Willis, the dealer near Lubbock in West Texas, has a dealer friend nowhere near farm country -- in Chicago, to be exact -- who complains that he can never get enough Chevrolet Suburbans to meet local demand. "Maybe they could make it the national vehicle of Chicago, too," Mr. Willis said.
Maybe. As Professor Marsden noted, hulking pickups and S.U.V's were showing up all over cities, proving that a sense of place can sometimes be more about your state of mind than the state you are in.
"You see these city guys in these huge pickups," he said. "Maybe he works in an office, but on the weekend, he's a working guy. He's doing something. He's building a deck."

New From Toyota for 2003: The Anomaly
THE pickup truck evokes an image of horses, trailers and cotton fields, of gun racks and special spitoons for Beech Nut chewers balanced on the floor boards.
Southern California evokes images of natty, fuel-efficient import cars, vying for the roads with muscle cars and lovingly restored Woodies full of surfboards.
But guess what vehicle has sold best so far this year in Southern California? It's a Chevrolet Silverado 1500, an imposing pickup that is also one of the best sellers in the Houston and Phoenix areas.
"If someone had asked me, I would have probably said the Honda Accord or the Toyota Camry in Southern California," said Tom Libby, a director of industry analysis for J. D. Power & Associates, which compiles sales data from dealers around the country. "It's a weird thing."
But he and other auto sales experts say that in a vehicle market that can be amazingly balkanized, anomalies appear all over the place, especially with the rise of light trucks -- sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickups -- which outsold passenger cars for the first time last year.
Unexpected sales numbers can also move in the other direction, too. One of the most successful Mitsubishi dealers in the country, for example, is in Houston. And Jeep Grand Cherokees, which cultivate an image of ski-country ruggedness and chic, actually sold best last year in the New York area, according to Jeep. (More than 37,000 were sold around New York but only 11,000 around Denver. The next best sales area after New York was Detroit.)
One of the biggest shifts in the country, however, is the slow invasion of foreign car markers into once solidly domestic bastions. Last year, Toyota's sales increased a robust 5.6 percent in an area that includes Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio, where Cadillacs and Buicks have long reigned.
"This was an area where once few Toyotas were sold at all," said Paul Taylor, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association. "Or if you did see them, it was at a charity event where someone was paying $5 to take a whack at it with a sledge hammer. "

HOT CARS
Sound the Alarm: What To Steal for 2003
THERE are all kinds of ways to find out what people like to drive where. One is to ask the thieves.
Every year, CCC Information Services, an auto claims processor based in Chicago, releases a hit parade of the cars that are most frequently stolen, serving as a kind of shadowy survey of regional preferences in cars.
In the Midwest, the popularity of cars made by domestic companies was clear. In Indiana, no imports were to be found in the top 25; thieves collected Cadillacs, Buicks and Oldsmobiles. Michigan also had no imports in its list. In Texas, pickup trucks accounted for 20 of the 25 most frequently stolen vehicles.
Some of the findings, though, are mystifying. In Montana, for instance, the second-most frequently stolen car last year was the 1970 Cutlass.
When a car becomes popular, it is more frequently in accidents, creating higher demand for parts. Buying from thieves is a lot cheaper than buying from the factory. As one study found recently, a 2001 Chevrolet Cavalier that sells for $15,400 would cost $63,240 if completely rebuilt with factoryordered parts.
The demand for parts explains why nationwide, the most frequently stolen car is the Toyota Camry. Thieves like it because most of its parts are interchangeable among many Toyotas, making it easy to sell of the car in

GRAPHIC: Photos: As with cooking, cars have a regional flavor. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times)(pg. F1); CHOP SHOPPER -- Cars like the Camry are coveted for their parts.; PICKUP LINE -- The Chevy Silverado, a hit in Southern California. (pg. F14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (60%) AUTOMOBILES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2002 



102 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
AOL Official And Lawyer For Microsoft Spar in Court

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
An executive of America Online told a federal judge today that Microsoft was using its Windows operating system to "tilt" users toward its own versions of technology that both companies see as the gateway to a lucrative new business called Web services.
 John Borthwick, the vice president for advanced services of America Online, sparred with Microsoft's lawyer, Richard C. Pepperman, who displayed internal AOL documents acknowledging that Microsoft's .Net technology was open to all developers and designed to run on any platform, not just Windows. 
 ".Net today is a relatively open platform," Mr. Borthwick conceded. "The concern is that over time the platform will become more closed."
Mr. Borthwick testified on behalf of nine states that are pursuing curbs on Microsoft's business practices across a range of new technologies after a federal appeals court ruled last June that the software maker repeatedly violated antitrust laws.
Microsoft contends that a less-restrictive settlement that it reached with the Justice Department and nine other states is enough to restore competition in the computer operating system market, where its Windows platform holds a monopoly. The court said Microsoft illegally maintained that monopoly by sabotaging the Netscape Navigator browser and the Java programming language, which posed a threat to Windows.
After three weeks of hearings, Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly of the Federal District Court in Washington has still given no indication of how she views the dissenting states' argument that an effective remedy must encompass nascent technologies that may eventually challenge Windows.
The states' argument is "a stretch," said Robert E. Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution and a former Justice Department official. But he added that such contortions might be necessary to apply antitrust laws in the fast-changing technology industry. 
With Microsoft's .Net technology, for instance, there is hardly any market to dominate yet. The idea is that applications of all kinds will increasingly reside on the Internet rather than on personal computers. Instead of buying software, people will pay for services available to them from a range of devices. 
Unless Microsoft is required to continue to disclose information about .Net and allow competing providers of Web services to promote themselves on the Windows desktop screen, Mr. Borthwick contended, the company would provide Windows users an advantage over users of other operating systems.
Mr. Borthwick said Microsoft's newest operating system, Windows XP, continually prompts users to sign up for the company's "Passport" online identification system, which Microsoft hopes will serve as the access key to all the Web services an individual might sign up for.
But Mr. Pepperman was pointed out that AOL has a competing technology called Magic Carpet, to be released later this year. He suggested that AOL was primarily concerned with cornering the crucial consumer access point to Web services for itself.
AOL has negotiated an exclusive arrangement with Amazon.com, perhaps the most significant e-commerce site, Mr. Pepperman noted. He said AOL refused to discuss how Magic Carpet and .Net could work together after Microsoft declined to allow AOL to promote Magic Carpet on the opening Windows screen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (92%); JUDGES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (71%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); APPEALS (53%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STATES (US); COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (92%); AOL INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%) AMERICA ONLINE INC; MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); AOL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY; BORTHWICK, JOHN; KOLLAR-KOTELLY, COLLEEN (JUDGE); PEPPERMAN, RICHARD C 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



103 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Big Board Weighs Changes For Corporate Directors
The New York Stock Exchange is considering taking steps to help shore up investor confidence in corporate governance in the aftermath of Enron's collapse.
 One change would require companies whose shares trade on the Big Board to limit participation on their audit and compensation committees to independent directors. The exchange is also discussing a requirement that would force companies to separate the job of chairman from chief executive. Page C5. 

Facing a New Kind of Retirement
American workers now put more money into pension and retirement-savings plans sponsored by their employers than the companies themselves do, showing how far companies have moved away from the system of decades past, in which employers alone financed the retirement savings of their workers. A1.

Dell Says Rivals' Deal Opened Doors
The president of Dell Computer said his company had "without a doubt" benefited from the uncertainty among corporate customers about the effect of Hewlett-Packard's planned purchase of Compaq Computer. Executives from Dell visited Wall Street analysts and sketched out plans to double revenue to $60 billion over the next four or five years. C3.

$2.5 Million Bonus for Kmart Chief
James B. Adamson, the Kmart board chairman who became chief executive last month, received a $2.5 million signing bonus and will be paid at least $1 million a year to restructure the company, a distressed retailer, according to documents filed with a United States bankruptcy court in Chicago. C2.

Steve Madden, the founder of the women's shoe line that bears his name, was sentenced to 41 months in prison on securities fraud and money-laundering charges. C5.

Key Gauges Manage Modest Gains
Stocks managed a modest advance, despite a profit warning from Bristol-Myers Squibb. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 36.88 points, or 0.4 percent, at 10,235.17. The Nasdaq composite index rose 5.40 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,789.75. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 0.94 point, or 0.1 percent, to 1,126.34. C6.

Columbia Lands Harvard Economist
Columbia University announced that it had poached another star economist from a major university, this time from Harvard, which has already been roiled by threats of defection by prominent professors. The newly recruited professor, Jeffrey D. Sachs, left, a prominent figure in international economics, had been at Harvard since he entered as a freshman 29 years ago. The opportunities offered by Columbia could not be matched at Harvard, Mr. Sachs said, adding that he was leaving his alma mater reluctantly. B1.

Snapple Refreshes Its Ad Campaign
Eager to put more snap into its flagship line of Snapple products, the Snapple Beverage Group is adding even more attention-getting elements to the brand's already offbeat selling efforts in a $40 million campaign that begins April 15. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C4.

Kirch Group Fails to Save Core Unit
The Kirch Group is preparing to declare today that its core business is bankrupt. A consortium of bankers may make one more effort to agree on a deal, but people involved in the negotiations said that seeking bankruptcy protection increasingly seemed better than throwing good money after bad. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,235.17 up 36.88Nasdaq composite -- 1,789.75 up 5.4010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.26% down 0.01The euro -- $0.8778 down 0.0032The dollar -- 132.29 yen down 0.42 Graph: "TODAY" shows unemployment figures from September 2001-February 2002.March figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.6% Graph: "TODAY" shows consumer borrowing figures from August 2001-Jan. 2002.February figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$7.5 billion Graph shows Dell Computer share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (75%); BONUS PAY (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); PROFIT WARNINGS (72%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); SENTENCING (69%); LITIGATION (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); FOOTWEAR (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); RETAILERS (64%); MONEY LAUNDERING (63%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); STEVEN MADDEN LTD (54%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%); DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (70%); SHOO (NASDAQ) (54%); BMY (NYSE) (53%); DPS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (54%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (54%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (50%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



104 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: OPIUM; 
Afghanistan to Pay Farmers for Uprooted Poppies

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS 

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, April 4 

 BODY:
With this country's vast fields of poppies ready to flower soon, Afghan officials said today that they would embark on a novel plan to pay farmers to destroy their crops, whether they want to or not. 
 Ashraf Ghani, a senior adviser to Hamid Karzai, the chairman of the interim government, said that agents of the Afghan government would fan out across three Afghan provinces thought to produce about 90 percent of the country's opium. 
 The undisclosed cost will be borne by the United States, Britain and other Western countries, which have been pressuring the Afghan government to crack down on poppy production. In recent months, there have been some suggestions that Western nations would condition aid pledged to Afghanistan on efforts by the Karzai government to attack poppy cultivation. Mr. Ghani said this was not the case. 
Under the plan, the Afghan officials will offer poppy farmers around $500 per acre to destroy their plants. If the farmers refuse, Mr. Ghani said, the officials will destroy the crops anyway.
The initiative represents a last-ditch effort to forestall a big comeback for poppy production in Afghanistan, which had become the world's largest supplier of opium until the then-ruling Taliban cracked down on production, which led to a sharply reduced harvest last year.
After the collapse of the Taliban in the fall, many of the farmers who had successfully cultivated poppies rushed to plant again, and this year's crop is now expected to be as large as some of those in the mid or late 1990's, when the Taliban was encouraging poppy production, apparently to raise money.
The initiative announced today is designed to blunt the economic impact of curtailing the crop. One proposal is to provide jobs for farm laborers who would ordinarily harvest the poppies. 
Racing to beat the harvest, which would otherwise begin within weeks, government officials will begin handing out cash later this month in Badakshan Province in eastern Afghanistan, Helmand Province in the south and Nangarhar in the northeast, the three centers of poppy production here. The payments, which will be made on the spot, are designed to pay the farmer slightly more than what he would have made had he grown wheat, not opium poppies.
The initiative raises the possibility of a confrontation between the fledgling government and the poppy farmers, who are known for their sometimes violent resistance to attempts to prevent them from growing their prized crops. 
Still, Mr. Ghani said that if the farmers refused to destroy their crops, the government was prepared to do the job for them. "State power is based on the legitimate use of force," Mr. Ghani said. "We hope it doesn't reach that point." 
In impoverished, drought-stricken Afghanistan, the crop has proved to be one of the few reliable sources of a decent income. Poppies also use far less water than wheat or corn. 
For all these reasons, Western officials have largely abandoned hopes of eradicating Afghanistan's poppy crop this year. Even so, Mr. Ghani and Yunus Qanooni, the interior minister, said that the Karzai government was determined to eliminate poppy farming as a viable occupation. In a decree signed by Mr. Karzai earlier this week, the repayment of loans in opium was prohibited. The practice is widespread among poppy farmers and effectively imposes interest rates of as much as 500 percent per year on the farmer. Mr. Karzai also ordered the closing of opium shops. 
In his decree, Mr. Karzai said the cash payments to poppy farmers would be a one-time thing. "The ban on cultivation of poppy will be strictly enforced from now on," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPIUM (92%); TALIBAN (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; POPPIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AGRICULTURE 

ORGANIZATION: ;NORTHERN ALLIANCE (ANTI-TALIBAN FORCE) 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (73%) FILKINS, DEXTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) AFGHANISTAN; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



105 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Bush Presses Both Sides; Sends Powell to Mideast
President Bush reversed course and thrust his administration into a central role in the Middle East crisis. He demanded that Israel begin withdrawing from the West Bank and told Arab nations and Yasir Arafat that they must actively oppose terrorism if they are to have any hope of creating a Palestinian state. He also said he was sending Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to the region. A1

Israeli armored vehicles entered Hebron, the last major West Bank city to be occupied, while heavy fighting continued elsewhere in the West Bank, including Jenin. Four Palestinians and two Israelis were killed in the day's fighting. In the north, guerrillas fired nine rockets into Israel from Lebanon but to little effect. A1

Israel made public documents that it said proved that Mr. Arafat had authorized payments to members of his Fatah faction accused of terrorist acts against Israelis. A10

A Truce in Angola
The southwest African country's warring generals signed a cease-fire intended to end more than two decades of civil war. The ceremony came six weeks after the death of the longtime guerrilla leader Jonas Savimbi. A3

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A8

Afghans Free Many Suspects Seized in Conspiracy Case
Afghan officials said they had released nearly half of the 300 people arrested this week in a reported plot to topple the government, but they denied suggestions that the detentions were part of a campaign to stifle political opponents. A8

Prisoner May Be Moved
The Pentagon plans to move an Afghan war prisoner, Yasser Esam Hamdi, from the naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where he has been held for weeks while his captors were apparently unaware that he might be an American citizen. If his citizenship is confirmed, he can file a court petition demanding that the government either charge him with a crime or set him free. A8

Effort Against Heroin Trade
Afghan officials said they would embark on a novel plan to pay farmers to destroy their poppy crops, whether they wanted to or not. A8

NATIONAL A15-21

Prosecutors Press Efforts In Clergy Sex Abuse Cases
Prosecutors in several regions say they are seeking new ways to interpret laws that may let them press criminal charges against abusive priests even when statutes of limitation would seem to block them. Prosecutors around the country also appear to be shedding concerns about taking on a powerful institution like the Roman Catholic Church. A1

The Boston Archdiocese is accused of shifting the Rev. Joseph E. Birmingham among parishes because of complaints of sexual abuse. A18

Dartmouth Murder Sentences
Robert Tulloch, 18, received a mandatory sentence of life without parole after pleading guilty to murdering two Dartmouth professors, Half and Susanne Zantop, in 2001. His accomplice, James Parker, 17, was sentenced to 25 years to life. A15

Claim in King Assassination
A Florida pastor said his deceased father -- not James Earl Ray -- shot the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Memphis in 1968. He said his father, Henry Clay Wilson, led a group of three conspirators who thought Dr. King was linked to communists. A20

A Washington Icon Drops Out
Marion S. Barry Jr., 66, who since 1975 has served four terms as mayor of the District of Columbia and several terms as a city councilman, said he would abandon his latest council run. On March 21, the police said they had found drug residue in his car. A18

Farmers Sue Tobacco Buyers
A federal judge in North Carolina granted class-action status to a suit by farmers from six states that accuses cigarette makers of conspiring to set prices offered for tobacco. A21

Spy Found F.B.I. Security 'Lax'
Robert P. Hanssen, an F.B.I. agent who spied for Moscow for years, said security was so lax that it amounted to "criminal negligence" and that even clerks had easy access to classified data, a Justice Department report said. A16

Senator Rejects Ridge Offer
Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, rejected an offer by Tom Ridge, director of the Office of Homeland Security, to give briefings rather than formal testimony to Congress on how the administration was guarding against terror attacks. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Chinatown Economy Paying Heavy Price From 9/11
The World Trade Center attack led to the layoffs of about one-fourth of Chinatown's 34,000 workers and caused economic ripples in Queens and Brooklyn, according to the Asian American Federation of New York, a nonprofit public policy group. About 7,500 of the 75,000 jobs lost in the city were lost in Chinatown, it said. B3

ESCAPES F1-24

EDUCATION

From Harvard to Columbia
Columbia said the Harvard economist Jeffrey D. Sachs would be joining its faculty, the latest star economist to be lured to Columbia from another major university. B1

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-38

OBITUARIES C11

James H. Karales
A photojournalist whose 1965 picture of determined marchers in Selma became a pictorial anthem of the civil rights movement, he was 71. C11

SPORTS D1-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

An Inside Look at Rice
A Chinese team and the Swiss company Syngenta are publishing two versions of the rice genome, opening a new era in plant breeding and food production. Knowledge of the genome will help breeders create better varieties not only of rice but also of corn, wheat, barley and other crops. A21

Journal Retreats on Report
Nature said it should not have published a report five months ago that Mexican native corn varieties were contaminated with genetically engineered DNA. The report has drawn criticism from scientists. A21

Shuttle's Takeoff Postponed
The flight of the Atlantis was put off until Sunday after a ruptured fuel line spewed flammable hydrogen gas. A15

BUSINESS DAY C1-10, 12

The New Pension Reality
American workers now put more money into pension and retirement-savings plans sponsored by employers than the companies themselves do, researchers said, citing the shift toward 401(k) and similar retirement plans financed mostly by workers. A1

Andersen Thinning Its Ranks
Arthur Andersen is preparing to shed up to 7,000 employees through layoffs and thousands more through a deal with a rival accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche. Deloitte would acquire the bulk of Andersen's tax business, which employs several thousand people, including about 600 partners. C1

Bidding for Global Crossing
More potential bidders emerged for Global Crossing, the once highflying telecommunications company that has sought bankruptcy protection, and its prized Asian unit. C1

Goodbye, Alarm Clock
Bryant Gumbel said he would leave CBS's "Early Show," citing a desire to leave morning television after nearly 20 years. His departure raises questions about both the direction of the program and Mr. Gumbel's future in television. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The president steps in; Nassau's tough-love budget; Verlyn Klinkenborg on turkey season.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E38
TV Listings E28
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); RELIGION (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); AL FATAH (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); COUPS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); PETITIONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); NAVIES (70%); LITIGATION (70%); CIVIL WAR (70%); SENTENCING (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (69%); ARRESTS (68%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (67%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); MURDER (57%); HEROIN (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); ANGOLA (79%); CUBA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



106 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: WHITE HOUSE; 
BUSH DEMANDS ISRAELI PULLOUT; INSISTS ARAFAT OPPOSE TERROR; POWELL WILL GO TO THE MIDEAST

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4 

 BODY:
President Bush reversed course today and thrust his administration into a central role in the Middle East crisis, demanding that Israel begin withdrawing from the West Bank and telling Arab nations and Yasir Arafat that they must actively oppose terrorism if they are to have any hope of creating a Palestinian state.
 Mr. Bush said he would send Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to the region next week, putting him in the center of negotiations that have been handled so far by a lower-level envoy. But several of the president's senior aides said the true importance of the speech was that it set Mr. Bush on a course of acting as a central mediator in the peace effort, a role which until now he went to great lengths to avoid. 
 "Decades of bitter experience teach a clear lesson," Mr. Bush said in the Rose Garden. "Progress is impossible when nations emphasize their grievances and ignore their opportunities. The storms of violence cannot go on. Enough is enough." Transcript, Page A12. 
Shortly after the president's speech, a senior aide to Mr. Arafat told CNN that the Palestinian leader accepted the president's remarks "without conditions." In Israel, however, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said on television that the weeklong military operation in the West Bank would continue. "Negotiating before terror is subdued will only lead to its continuation," he said.
A senior administration official involved in setting the policy said Mr. Bush decided in meetings on Monday and Tuesday that he would have to intervene more directly because he feared that long-term allies in the region like Egypt and Jordan were facing destabilizing protests.
"The president felt we were at a tipping point, where the fundamental pillars of peace were endangered," the official said. "He decided at a national security meeting on Tuesday to send General Powell, and that he couldn't go without the president laying out a big vision of the Middle East."
Secretary Powell will take over the lead in talks from Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, the administration's envoy. Officials said the two would work together, but the secretary of state's presence clearly brings the American role to a new level.
The fighting in the Middle East has presented Mr. Bush with a difficult policy dilemma. To be coherent in the fight against terrorism, he has been virtually obliged to back the Israeli attempt to stop terror attacks by suicide bombers. But in seeking support in the Arab world for an eventual attempt to topple Saddam Hussein in Iraq, he has been obliged to try to shore up his position among Arab friends of Mr. Arafat.
Today, the president tried to extricate himself by suggesting that Mr. Arafat could play a role in the quest for peace, but only after he unambiguously renounces terror. 
While Mr. Bush's comments in recent weeks have veered from urging Israel to show restraint to giving it a virtual green light to defend itself however it deems necessary, today he tried to strike a far more delicate balance.
"I ask Israel to halt incursions into Palestinian-controlled areas, and begin the withdrawal from those cities it has recently occupied," he said. 
"Israeli settlement activity in occupied territories must stop," the president said at another point, his hand chopping the air from a podium just off the colonnade just outside the Oval Office. "And the occupation must end through withdrawal to secure and recognizable boundaries."
While making it clear that Mr. Arafat -- a man he openly distrusts -- will be a central player in the coming talks, Mr. Bush had blunt words for him and for the Arab nations that, he said, had blindly supported acts of terrorism, and never seriously thought about how to create a politically and economically stable Palestine.
"The situation in which he finds himself today," Mr. Bush said, speaking of the attacks on Mr. Arafat's headquarters in Ramallah and on his power base, "is largely of his own making."
For the first time, he also called for Israel to show "a respect for and a concern about the dignity of the Palestinian people who are and will be their neighbors." He added that it was "crucial to distinguish between the terrorists and ordinary Palestinians seeking to provide for their own families."
"The Israeli government should be compassionate at checkpoints and border crossings," he insisted, a warning the White House has never before issued to Mr. Sharon, "sparing innocent Palestinians daily humiliation."
Mr. Bush's announcement instantly created a crucial test of American influence in the region, experts said. Mr. Sharon, whom the president did not refer to by name, must ultimately decide whether to abide by Mr. Bush's demand for a withdrawal, or defy his greatest ally and protector.
Mr. Arafat and the Arab nations, in turn, have to decide whether to seek in earnest to halt terrorism, and unequivocally accept Israel's existence.
A senior aide to Mr. Bush said Secretary Powell would travel to the region with "a broad mandate." If talks go well, the aide said, the secretary may recommend a Middle East peace conference. Mr. Bush would almost certainly want to shape a conference in his own image, rather than replaying the one his father organized in Madrid in 1991 or President Clinton's conference at Camp David two years ago.
Just a few months ago, the Bush team poured scorn on such an approach. But that was before Mr. Sharon brought the full might of the Israeli military to bear on Palestinians in occupied West Bank towns and tensions in the region boiled.
Oil prices, a reliable measure of regional tensions, have soared, and America's friends in the region -- particularly Jordan and Egypt -- have faced a tide of protest. The possibility of broader instability in the region has become real.
It is not clear when Secretary Powell will be traveling to the region, though senior administration officials said he would still make some of his stops in his previously scheduled trip to Europe next week.
A senior administration official said that, in addition to Palestinian and Israeli officials, the secretary of state would meet with King Abdullah of Jordan, Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, though the official did not say where the meetings would occur.
The speech today amounted to a test for Mr. Bush at a time when domestic and international criticism of his foreign policy had risen to a pitch not seen since the Sept. 11 terror attacks on the United States.
As he has in the recent past, the president spoke in short declarative sentences and used simple phrases to describe complex issues. "I have no illusions, we have no illusions about the difficulty of the issues that lie ahead," he said. "Yet our resolve is strong. America's committed to ending this confilct."
But he spared no one -- not Israel, the Palestinians or the Arab nations -- in his criticism or his challenges.
He has still not talked to Mr. Sharon directly since the latest week of violence and retaliation. But he had harsh words for Mr. Arafat, whom he did mention by name, saying that though the Palestinian leader had repeatedly committed to renouncing terror and to control it, "he's not done so."
Mr. Bush said of Mr. Arafat, "He's missed his opportunities and thereby betrayed the hopes of the people he's supposed to lead."
It appeared possible that this accusation of betrayal would undercut support for Mr. Bush's efforts among the Palestinians or in the wider Arab world.
The president also spoke sternly to Arab and other Muslim nations, saying it was "not enough" for them to defend the Palestinian cause. "They must truly help the Palestinian people by seeking peace and fighting terror and promoting development."
He specifically named Iran, saying its arms shipments to the Palestinians "fueled the fire of conflict," and Syria, which he said, "has spoken out against Al Qaeda" but not against Hamas and Hezbollah, two of the major terror groups driving the attacks on Israel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the Rose Garden with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, President Bush outlined new steps on the Mideast. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); President Bush explaining new U.S. moves in the Middle East. (Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); RIOTS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; TERRORISM; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (98%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; JORDAN; EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



107 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: $1 Million For Jobs Centers 

BYLINE:  By Diane Cardwell (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday the creation of a $1 million advertising campaign, a Web site and a special telephone line to publicize career assistance centers established by the city. 
The Workforce1 Career Centers, which Mr. Bloomberg said were concentrated in areas with high unemployment rates, offer free services like help with resume writing and career counseling to anyone seeking a job or job training, officials said. "It is a program that has been implemented and is doing well," Mr. Bloomberg said, "but we want to tell more people about it." The publicity campaign will include advertisements in newspapers, on public transportation, at public telephones and on the Internet. Diane Cardwell (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); PRINT ADVERTISING (86%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (84%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (82%) LABOR; VOCATIONAL TRAINING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) CARDWELL, DIANE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



108 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Dell Says Hewlett Merger Is Opening Doors

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The president of Dell Computer said yesterday that his company had "without a doubt" benefited from the uncertainty among corporate customers about the effect of Hewlett-Packard's planned purchase of Compaq Computer.
 The executive, Kevin Rollins, said the main effect of the pending merger so far had been invitations to Dell to bid on large corporate accounts. The process of becoming an approved supplier to large corporations can be arduous and time-consuming, especially in Europe, and many companies are winnowing their approved vendors. In companies where both Hewlett-Packard and Compaq are approved suppliers, the merger -- if finally approved -- would open a place on the list. 
 "Companies will no longer have those two to keep each other honest, so we're getting invited in," Mr. Rollins said. "More and more doors are opening up to us."
His comments and similar ones from Michael Dell, the founder and chief executive of Dell Computer, came during a presentation to Wall Street analysts in which Dell sketched out its plans to double its revenue to $60 billion over the next four or five years. The strategy hinges on Dell's ability to extend its business, honed in the personal computer business, into the corporate world of large data-serving computers, storage systems and services.
The plan, analysts said, is ambitious and a formidable challenge. It would place Dell, the leading PC maker, increasingly in direct competition with not only Hewlett-Packard but also I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems. These rivals have a larger presence than Dell in the industrial-strength computing needed to run corporate data centers. They spend more than Dell on research and development, and they have much larger staffs of service workers to assist corporate customers in tackling complex computing chores.
Whether Dell's low-cost business model of direct sales to customers will work, without drastic changes, in the large market for heavy-duty computing is uncertain. Dell's bet is that industry-standard technology -- mainly machines powered by Intel's microprocessors, Microsoft's Windows operating system and the GNU Linux operating system -- will move steadily into corporate data centers, taking over tasks now handled by rivals' computers running Unix and mainframes.
The Dell strategy, in essence, is to take the low-cost economics of the PC business into the data center market. "We think we can grow the business without changing the business model," Mr. Rollins said.
That remains to be seen, analysts say. What is evident is the continuing efficiency of Dell in its current business. It has gained market share and continues to be profitable amid the slump in the PC business, even as its rivals have lost share and money.
Yesterday, Dell confirmed that its revenue in its first fiscal quarter, begun in February, would be slightly ahead of its earlier guidance at $7.9 billion, down 2 percent from a year earlier. Dell executives said that they expected a recovery in technology spending in the second half of the year but that they did not expect a sharp rebound to the growth levels of the late 1990's. Dell's longer-term growth targets depend on aggressively taking business from rivals.
The Compaq merger, according to Dell executives, should provide an opening for competitive gains. "There is a significant opportunity for us because of some of the confusion in the market," Mr. Dell said.
To date, however, there is no clear evidence that recent sales gains by Dell have come at the expense of Hewlett-Packard or Compaq. Both companies reported strong results in their most recent quarters.
"My biggest fear was that there would be a big hit to the business after the deal was announced," Michael D. Capellas, the chief executive of Compaq, said recently. "But that didn't happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Dell, the chief executive of Dell Computer, with an analyst after a presentation yesterday in New York. The company sketched out plans to double its revenue to $60 billion over the next four or five years. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); APPROVALS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); MARKET SHARE (63%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: DELL INC (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (92%); INTEL CORP (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; DELL COMPUTER CORP; COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (88%) LOHR, STEVE; ROLLINS, KEVIN; DELL, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



109 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL; 
In Bush's Words: 'Break Free of Old Patterns'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's speech yesterday on the Middle East, as recorded by the Federal News Service Inc.:
 Good morning. During the course of one week, the situation in the Middle East has deteriorated dramatically. 
 Last Wednesday, my special envoy, Anthony Zinni, reported to me that we were on the verge of a cease-fire agreement that would have spared Palestinian and Israeli lives. That hope fell away when a terrorist attacked a group of innocent people in a Netanya hotel, killing many men and women in what is a mounting toll of terror. 
In the days since, the world has watched with growing concern the horror of bombings and burials and the stark picture of tanks in the street. Across the world, people are grieving for Israelis and Palestinians who have lost their lives. 
When an 18-year-old Palestinian girl is induced to blow herself up and in the process kills a 17-year-old Israeli girl, the future itself is dying, the future of the Palestinian people and the future of the Israeli people. We mourn the dead and we mourn the damage done to the hope of peace, the hope of Israel's and Israelis' desire for a Jewish state at peace with its neighbors, the hope of the Palestinian people to build their own independent state. 
Terror must be stopped. No nation can negotiate with terrorists, for there is no way to make peace with those whose only goal is death. 
This could be a hopeful moment in the Middle East. The proposal of Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, supported by the Arab League, has put a number of countries in the Arab world closer than ever to recognizing Israel's right to exist.
The United States is on record supporting the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people for a Palestinian state. Israel has recognized the goal of a Palestinian state. The outlines of a just settlement are clear -- two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. This can be a time for hope, but it calls for leadership, not for terror. 
Since Sept. 11, I've delivered this message. Everyone must choose. You're either with the civilized world or you're with the terrorists. All in the Middle East also must choose and must move decisively in word and deed against terrorist acts. 
The chairman of the Palestinian Authority has not consistently opposed or confronted terrorists. 
At Oslo and elsewhere, Chairman Arafat renounced terror as an instrument of his cause, and he agreed to control it. He's not done so. The situation in which he finds himself today is largely of his own making. He's missed his opportunities and thereby betrayed the hopes of the people he is supposed to lead. 
Given his failure, the Israeli government feels it must strike at terrorist networks that are killing its citizens. Yet Israel must understand that its response to these recent attacks is only a temporary measure. All parties have their own responsibilities, and all parties owe it to their own people to act. 
We all know today's situation runs the risk of aggravating long-term bitterness and undermining relationships that are critical to any hope of peace. I call on the Palestinian people, the Palestinian Authority and our friends in the Arab world to join us in delivering a clear message to terrorists. Blowing yourself up does not help the Palestinian cause. To the contrary, suicide bombing missions could well blow up the best and only hope for a Palestinian state. 
All states must keep their promise, made in a vote in the United Nations, to actively oppose terror in all its forms. No nation can pick and choose its terrorist friends. I call on the Palestinian Authority and all governments in the region to do everything in their power to stop terrorist activities, to disrupt terrorist financing and to stop inciting violence by glorifying terror in state-owned media or telling suicide bombers they are martyrs. 
They're not martyrs. They're murderers. And they undermine the cause of the Palestinian people. Those governments like Iraq that reward parents for the sacrifice of their children are guilty of soliciting murder of the worst kind. 
All who care about the Palestinian people should join in condemning and acting against groups like Al Aksa, Hezbollah, Hamas, Islamic Jihad and all the groups which oppose the peace process and seek the destruction of Israel.
The recent Arab League support of Crown Prince Abdullah's initiative for peace is promising, is hopeful, because it acknowledges Israel's right to exist.
And it raises the hope of sustained constructive Arab involvement in the search for peace. This builds on a tradition of visionary leadership begun by President Sadat and King Hussein and carried forward by President Mubarak and King Abdullah. 
Now other Arab states must rise to this occasion and accept Israel as a nation and as a neighbor. Peace with Israel is the only avenue to prosperity and success for a new Palestinian state. The Palestinian people deserve peace and an opportunity to better their lives. 
They need their closest neighbor, Israel, to be an economic partner, not a mortal enemy. They deserve a government that respects human rights and a government that focuses on their needs -- education and health care -- rather than feeding their resentments. 
It is not enough for Arab nations to defend the Palestinian cause. They must truly help the Palestinian people by seeking peace and fighting terror and promoting development. 
Israel faces hard choices of its own. Its government has supported the creation of a Palestinian state that is not a haven for terrorism. Yet Israel also must recognize that such a state needs to be politically and economically viable. 
Consistent with the Mitchell plan, Israeli settlement activity in occupied territories must stop, and the occupation must end through withdrawal to secure and recognized boundaries, consistent with United Nations Resolutions 242 and 338. Ultimately, this approach should be the basis of agreements between Israel and Syria and Israel and Lebanon. 
Israel should also show a respect, a respect for and concern about the dignity of the Palestinian people who are and will be their neighbors. It is crucial to distinguish between the terrorists and ordinary Palestinians seeking to provide for their own families. The Israeli government should be compassionate at checkpoints and border crossings, sparing innocent Palestinians daily humiliation. Israel should take immediate action to ease closures and allow peaceful people to go back to work. 
Israel is facing a terrible and serious challenge. For seven days, it has acted to root out terrorist nests. America recognizes Israel's right to defend itself from terror. Yet to lay the foundations of future peace, I ask Israel to halt incursions into Palestinian-controlled areas and begin the withdrawal from those cities it has recently occupied. I speak as a committed friend of Israel. I speak out of a concern for its long-term security, the security that will come with a genuine peace. 
As Israel steps back, responsible Palestinian leaders and Israel's Arab neighbors must step forward and show the world that they are truly on the side of peace. The choice and the burden will be theirs. 
The world expects an immediate cease-fire, immediate resumption of security cooperation with Israel against terrorism, an immediate order to crack down on terrorist networks. I expect better leadership and I expect results.
These are the elements of peace in the Middle East, and now we must build the road to those goals. Decades of bitter experience teach a clear lesson. Progress is impossible when nations emphasize their grievances and ignore their opportunities. The storms of violence cannot go on. Enough is enough. 
And to those who would try to use the current crisis as an opportunity to widen the conflict, stay out. Iran's arms shipments and support for terror fuel the fire of conflict in the Middle East, and it must stop. Syria has spoken out against Al Qaeda. We expect it to act against Hamas and Hezbollah, as well. It's time for Iran to focus on meeting its own people's aspirations for freedom and for Syria to decide which side of the war against terror it is on. 
The world finds itself at a critical moment. This is a conflict that can widen or an opportunity we can seize. And so I've decided to send Secretary of State Powell to the region next week to seek broad international support for the vision I've outlaid today. As a step in this process, he will work to implement United Nations Resolution 1402; an immediate and meaningful cease-fire; an end of terror and violence and incitement; withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian cities, including Ramallah; implementation of the already agreed-upon Tenet and Mitchell plans, which will lead to a political settlement. 
I have no illusions -- we have no illusions -- about the difficulty of the issues that lie ahead. 
Yet our nation's resolve is strong. America's committed to ending this conflict and beginning an era of peace. We know this is possible, because in our lifetimes we have seen an end to conflicts that no one thought could end. We've seen fierce enemies let go of long histories of strife and anger. 
America itself counts former adversaries as trusted friends -- Germany and Japan and now Russia.
Conflict is not inevitable. Distrust need not be permanent. Peace is possible when we break free of old patterns and habits of hatred. 
The violence and grief that trouble the Holy Land have been among the great tragedies of our time. The Middle East has often been left behind in the political and economic advancement of the world. That is the history of the region. But it need not and must not be its fate. 
The Middle East could write a new story of trade and development and democracy, and we stand ready to help. Yet this progress can only come in an atmosphere of peace, and the United States will work for all the children of Abraham to know the benefits of peace. Thank you very much.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Israeli Army chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Shaul Mofaz, gesturing on Wednesday as his officers reviewed maps during operations at Tulkarm in the West Bank. Yesterday, General Mofaz said Yasir Arafat supported terrorism and called for his deportation from the West Bank. (Israel Defense Forces via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); BOMBINGS (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); MIDDLE EAST (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



110 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; 
Bankruptcy Seems at Hand For German Media Giant

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 4 

 BODY:
The Kirch Group is preparing to declare on Friday that its core business is bankrupt, as the aging founder of the group, a German media conglomerate, assumes the role of a passive bystander while bankers and minority shareholders argue over who should contribute to a rescue.
 A consortium of bankers may make one more attempt on Friday to agree on a deal, but people involved in the negotiations said that bankruptcy increasingly seemed better than throwing good money after bad. 
 In Los Angeles, Rupert Murdoch and executives at his News Corporation met today with Kirch's bank creditors and other investors about a possible takeover of Premiere, the money-losing pay television network that is the biggest reason for the Kirch Group's collapse.
Mr. Murdoch indirectly controls 22 percent of Premiere through BSkyB, the British satellite broadcaster; News Corporation is the biggest shareholder of BSkyB. Mr. Murdoch has expressed interest in taking over Premiere, but people close to those discussions said that Premiere needed at least $1 billion in fresh money and that News Corporation was unwilling to provide it. 
All outward signs today suggested that the end was at hand for the Kirch Group, a Munich-based media conglomerate that Leo Kirch, born in 1926, started out of the back of his car 43 years ago. That empire includes a majority stake in Germany's biggest commercial television broadcaster, a library of 11,000 movies and television shows, broadcast rights to World Cup soccer and a big stake in one of Germany's most influential newspaper publishers.
If Kirch is forced to declare bankruptcy, it will be a milestone in the transformation of German business. For decades, Germany's biggest banks and financial institutions have helped rescue major corporations.
The banks have generally converted an ailing corporation's loans into shares and have often held those shares for decades. That was the way Deutsche Bank became the largest shareholder in what is now DaimlerChrysler and picked up holdings in dozens of other companies.
Some of Kirch's largest bank creditors have been trying to negotiate a deal to rescue KirchMedia, the Kirch Group unit that holds most of the company's media properties, except Premiere. But people close to the talks said that even the banks were becoming convinced that a bankruptcy would make it easier to break up the conglomerate and sell the valuable properties quickly.
The prospect of a Kirch bankruptcy is sending shock waves through professional soccer in Germany. KirchMedia has a four-year contract for broadcast rights to all German soccer teams, and many teams would go bankrupt if they stopped receiving licensing fees from Kirch.
The German economics ministry said today that it was prepared to provide credit guarantees to soccer teams to keep them afloat.
But that may not be enough. Smaller and less successful soccer teams get as much as 50 percent of their revenue from television fees because they attract much less advertising from corporate sponsors than top teams like Bayern-Munich.
Some sports executives predict that at least half a dozen teams would become insolvent if Kirch stopped making payments. Kirch executives have already announced that they need to reduce the payments under the existing contract, which provides 1.5 billion euros, or about $1.3 billion, over four years.
The heart of Kirch's problems lies in the poor performance of Premiere, which lost about $900 million last year. Kirch invested about $4 billion into Premiere's digital pay television service, but it attracted only 2.4 million subscribers.
Premiere is not part of the rescue talks in Munich because it is not part of KirchMedia. But KirchMedia owns the rights to soccer and to top Hollywood movies that are broadcast over Premiere.
Industry executives say Premiere needs to overhaul its technology because the digital set-top boxes it uses are difficult to use and expensive. And Kirch executives say that both the Hollywood movie studios and the soccer league need to accept lower television fees.
Kirch's problems could also affect the future of Formula One racing. Kirch acquired those rights last year, paying more than $1 billion. Now it is trying to sell those rights, but there are few interested takers.
Some of Germany's biggest carmakers, including DaimlerChrysler and BMW, never did like the idea of Kirch's acquiring Formula One rights and then broadcasting the races only on Premiere's pay television network.
But the carmakers have been content to watch Kirch try to slip out of its problems, and they insist that they are simply going ahead with their own plans to start a rival racing group as soon as the current Formula One contract expires.
Kirch executives seem reconciled to the idea that their company may indeed go bankrupt. "Nothing will happen today," one executive said confidently. But when he was asked about reports that Kirch would have to come up with the money or declare bankruptcy by Friday, he added, "I didn't say anything about tomorrow."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (90%); SOCCER (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (88%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (86%); PUBLISHING (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; PAY TELEVISION 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (95%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: KIRCH GROUP; PREMIERE (GERMAN TV CHANNEL); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC; NEWS CORP 

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (ASX) (95%); BSY (LSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; KIRCH, LEO; MURDOCH, RUPERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (72%) ; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002 



111 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Union Accuses Kirov 

 BODY:
The American Federation of Musicians has accused the Kirov Opera and Ballet Orchestra of stealing work from American musicians by recording a film soundtrack while in Washington in February to perform at the Kennedy Center.
 In a letter to the Immigration and Naturalization Service on March 4, Thomas F. Lee, the president of the musicians union, called the act "economic terrorism which victimized hard-working American musicians." 
 Asserting that the recording sessions were not listed in the Kirov's visa application, he asked that no further visa be issued for the orchestra until the union was "assured they are not entering this country to ruin established employment for our membership." He added, "They do not receive our wages, benefits or residual rights, nor do they pay taxes that we are aware of."
Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said: "Clearly this is not the kind of thing that one can or should make a snap judgment on."
The Kirov Orchestra is scheduled to appear at the Metropolitan Opera House from July 8 to 20. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (78%); BALLET (78%); OPERA (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TERRORISM (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



112 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Postal Official Says Overhaul Of the Service Is Essential 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5 

 BODY:
The postmaster general said today that if universal postal service is to remain practical, the Postal Service must change the way it functions, with more flexibility to raise rates, to close post offices and to reduce the number of days it delivers mail.
 The postmaster, John E. Potter, sent a plan to Congress on Thursday that he called "a blueprint for modernizing every aspect of the way we do business." 
 The 400-page plan was requested by lawmakers last year after the General Accounting Office concluded that the Postal Service was in a dangerous financial situation, confronting rising costs and shrinking business.
Mr. Potter proposed aggressive cost-cutting measures -- about $5 billion in savings through 2006 -- to shore up finances that have been shaken by the economic slowdown and the mailed-anthrax scare last year. 
"We need to go through a transformation -- perhaps one of the most important in our history," Mr. Potter said. "A transformation that will help us secure the future of universal mail service at affordable rates and give us the tools to protect regular mail and ensure a sound national system well into the future."
Postal rates are set to increase this summer as a result of an agreement between the service and many of the businesses and organizations that send bulk mail. The cost of a first-class stamp will rise to 37 cents from 34 cents. The most recent increase in first-class stamps was a 1-cent rise in January 2001. 
The Postal Service's board is expected to approve the rate change next week, officials said.
Once that increase is in place, Mr. Potter said, "I am committed to maintain that rate schedule until at least calendar year 2004."
The broad postal plan would overhaul the agency's operations, granting the service more autonomy in consolidating facilities, phasing in rate increases and scaling back delivery from the current six days a week. In addition, the service proposes that it become a "commercial government enterprise," which would reflect the operational and financial flexibility and corporate structure found in the private sector.
Though the service receives no taxpayer money for its operations, it is a government agency that works under guidelines set by Congress. Changes affecting the six-day schedule or mail facilities would require Congressional approval.
"We need the help of policy makers to legislate postal reforms," Mr. Potter said.
Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii and chairman of the Senate panel with oversight of the Postal Service, said he would call Mr. Potter to testify at a hearing this spring. Mr. Akaka said he intended to consider some of the ideas in the plan.
The issue of service reduction has been widely criticized by members of Congress, who said it would inconvenience customers and threaten the economy. 
The Postal Service lost about $1.7 billion last year, Mr. Potter said, and it could lose as much this year. It has cut 30,000 jobs in the past two years.
"Mail volume is down," Mr. Potter said. "Our revenue cannot cover the increase in costs, and it shows in our bottom line."
But Mr. Potter said he would not recommend widespread closings of post offices or an immediate reduction in the six-day mail service. 
William Burrus, president of the American Postal Workers Union, said the service could improve its financial condition by shifting discounts to consumers instead of bulk mailers.
John F. Sturm, the president of the Newspaper Association of America, called for President Bush to appoint an independent commission to assess the postal service's finances.
"We support its efforts to conduct business more efficiently," Mr. Sturm said of the post office. "The plan before us, however, is not the appropriate path."
H. Robert Wientzen, president of the Direct Marketing Association, said: "The reality is that the plan, while ambitious, can only work on the margins of existing law without Congress's help. The Congress, not just the plan, must help right the sinking ship that is the Postal Service."
Congress has not acted to set standards for the post office since 1970. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (95%); POSTAL RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); APPROVALS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) POSTAL SERVICE; FINANCES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%) POSTAL SERVICE (US); GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

PERSON: DANIEL AKAKA (56%) POTTER, JOHN E (POSTMASTER GENERAL) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



113 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: A Quiet Town Confronts Toxic Dirt 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, April 5 

 BODY:
Residents of Canon City, a small town in central Colorado, are accustomed to taking in the worst society has to offer. The 13 nearby state and federal prisons are filled with examples, like Theodore J. Kaczynski, the so-called Unabomber, and Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, one of the 1993 World Trade Center bombers.
 But prisoners are one thing. Up to 470,000 tons of radioactive dirt -- enough to fill 9,700 rail cars -- are quite another. The possibility that the dirt may be headed there from New Jersey has set the town on edge, making Canon City the latest community in the West to join the nationwide debate over what to do with toxic waste. 
 Political battles over the storage of radioactive and nuclear material are not uncommon in the West. In Nevada, for example, residents are fighting the government over the use of Yucca Mountain as a site for the storage of radioactive waste. But there and elsewhere, people opposed to waste storage almost always knew what was coming and who was bringing it.
That has not been the case in Canon City, a town of 15,000 on the Arkansas River. People there never even knew they would have a fight until they read about the shipment in a local newspaper. The newspaper reported that a local processing plant operated by the Cotter Corporation, a division of General Atomics, a nuclear technology company based in San Diego, had contracted with the Army Corps of Engineers to receive the radioactive dirt from a Superfund cleanup site in Maywood, N.J. The dirt would fill existing disposal ponds of uranium tailings, residue from processing. Otherwise the company would have to buy ordinary dirt.
The deal is worth millions of dollars to Cotter -- company officials declined to say how much -- and psychological comfort to people in Maywood, where neighborhoods were built on ground contaminated with thorium, a radioactive mineral once used in gas lanterns, from a chemical plant that operated from 1916 through 1959.
But residents of Canon City say the deal was a sucker punch, because Cotter failed to share details with them. 
"We're scared, really scared," said Lynn Dillon, a member of Colorado Citizens Against Toxic Waste, a group that was formed to stop the shipment. "We're a sleepy little town. We don't want to become a dumping site."
The group organized quickly. Its members began complaining to local, state and federal officials, insisting that the town had never been informed about the possible health and safety risks of bringing such a large quantity of toxic material into the area, which itself became a Superfund site in 1983. (Leaching from the Cotter ponds contaminated air and water near the plant.)
Responding to the complaints, Gov. Bill Owens asked the State Department of Public Health and Environment to review Cotter's deal. That request was enough to delay shipment until Cotter addressed concerns raised by the department. Doug Benevento, the department's director of environmental programs, said the company had not yet responded.
In addition, state lawmakers moved a bill quickly through the legislature that would make public input and environmental reviews a requirement of any deal to bring toxic waste into Colorado. Governor Owens, a Republican, signed the bill into law today.
The new law could further delay the shipments, although Patrick R. Mutz, the plant manager, conceded that the company had not expected smooth sailing. 
"It's part of the cost of doing business," Mr. Mutz said in an interview, referring to delays. "We'll do what they ask us to do."
But delays, he said, would do more harm than good. He argued that the Maywood dirt would benefit the community because it had a lower level of radioactivity than the materials it would cover.
"As a result," Mr. Mutz said, "it would reduce the radioactivity in the area."
That is the kind of answer that leaves opponents gnashing their teeth. Cotter, they contend, has never had community interest in mind. They base that assertion on the federal lawsuits the company has lost over health and property damage. A 1989 case was settled eight years later, with 542 plaintiffs winning a large settlement -- the amount was sealed by the court -- and other judgments against the company are now under appeal.
Residents also say they were never told about the recent revision of Cotter's license to allow for disposal.
Mr. Mutz said the change, made 18 months ago, was approved by the state and the Environmental Protection Agency. But to that point, the plant had been relatively dormant for years, owing to the decline in the nation's nuclear energy industry. Expecting no major new activity there, developers began building large single-family homes on the hills within a mile of the plant, selling them for as much as $500,000.
"Cotter made the change in license with no public input, with no environmental impact studies, with no communication with the community," said Larry LaBuda, a member of the citizens group. "We formed the group to make sure that doesn't happen again."
Once public outrage began building over the Maywood deal, Cotter invited residents to a meeting to discuss the issue, a session that grew so heated that the police were called in. Other meetings are planned.
Mr. Mutz said that residents' overheated emotions had clouded their thinking about the proposed deal, and that if they truly understood what Cotter was doing, they would see the operation in a better light.
"This is a controversial subject," he said. "We appreciate people's fears. It's not something we hold against anybody."
Mayor H. Ben Johnson, a lifetime Canon City resident who took office in January, said he sympathized with his upset neighbors but believed that many people were reacting to fear, not facts. 
The mayor said Cotter had become a better neighbor after losing the lawsuits, and he predicted that no matter what the plant did, Canon City would continue to thrive as a tourist attraction. Thousands visit the city every summer to gaze at the Royal Gorge and the suspension bridge above it, the highest in the world, at 1,050 feet, and to raft along the river.
"My wife and I were talking about this the other day," Mr. Johnson said. "We've traveled all over the world and, as she reminded me, I can't remember the last time I called ahead to ask if they have a uranium dump."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Belaski was among the residents of Canon City, Colo., who attended a town meeting on Wednesday to express their concern about plans to ship several hundred thousand tons of radioactive waste into the city.; Canon City residents say they were surprised to learn that a toxic shipment might be headed for the Cotter Corporation's processing plant. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); SUPERFUND (88%); ENGINEERING (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRISONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (76%); NUCLEAR WASTE (76%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (76%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); ARMIES (68%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (56%); LANDFILLS (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RADIATION; SUPERFUND; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; THORIUM; CHEMICALS 

COMPANY: COTTER CORP (67%); GENERAL ATOMICS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%) GENERAL ATOMICS; COTTER CORP; ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (67%); SIC1094 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORES (67%); NAICS926110 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (54%); SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (54%) SIC1094 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORES; 

PERSON: ;JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) CANON CITY (COLO); MAYWOOD (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



114 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: A Florida Candidate Battles for Recognition and Votes 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., April 3 

 BODY:
As Bill McBride ventured into South Florida this week to raise his profile as a Democratic contender for governor, he was both at home and a bit out of place.
 Speaking before the Broward Trial Lawyers' Association, Mr. McBride was the well-known insider with a storied reputation for building the largest law practice in Florida and the fifth largest in the country. 
 "I feel comfortable here," Mr. McBride told the group. "I was trained as a trial lawyer. I'm running for governor of Florida, and I'm going to run as a lawyer." 
But when he headed across the street to have coffee with representatives of the local Haitian community, Mr. McBride was just another politician looking for votes. "When he decided to run," said Francois Leconte, president of the local Haitian Community Center, "I got contacted by his people offering to meet with him. But I said no because I didn't know enough about him."
Mr. Leconte eventually agreed to hear Mr. McBride's political pitch.
Therein lies the problem for the McBride campaign. Democratic Party insiders say Mr. McBride, a native son with an impressive professional record and a centrist political stance, is their best hope for unseating Gov. Jeb Bush in November. But in South Florida and much of the rest of the state, few people have heard of him. 
While Mr. McBride prefers to focus on Mr. Bush, saying in an interview, "I am running one race and he's the target," he must still defeat Janet Reno, the former attorney general, in a September primary to have a shot at the Republican governor.
"He's been making public appearances and bashing Jeb, and that is not bad for this stage of the election," said Aubrey Jewett, a political science professor at the University of Central Florida. "But I suspect at some point he will have to take off his gloves and start running attack ads against Reno if he wants to win."
Mr. McBride, 56, grew up in Leesburg in central Florida and went to Florida State University on a football scholarship but gave it back and washed dishes to pay for college after he suffered a major knee injury in his freshman year. As a marine, he won the Bronze Star in Vietnam before returning to Florida to attend law school. In 1992 he became the managing partner of a 300-member firm, Holland & Knight, in Tampa. He has never held public office.
Though his up-by-the-boot-straps image might appeal to some voters, Mr. McBride is facing celebrity candidates in both the primary and, if he gets that far, the general election.
The younger brother of the president, Jeb Bush is one of the highest-profile governors. He has solid support among conservative Republicans and the Florida business establishment but has angered many black voters and unions over some of his policies on Civil Service job security and affirmative action.
Ms. Reno, 63, has become a pop-culture figure, attending Elton John's Oscar party in Hollywood last month and getting fund-raising help from Rosie O'Donnell. She appeals to blacks, the elderly and die-hard Democrats, but has virtually no support among conservative Republicans and Cuban-Americans.
The Republicans say Mr. McBride has yet to articulate an agenda. 
"I don't understand his strategy," said Al Cadenas, chairman of the Florida Republican Party. "Most people have no idea where he stands. You would think he would want to elaborate and start gaining ground but we haven't seen that."
In some respects Mr. McBride has emerged as a stealth candidate. He has spent months working the phones in his Tampa campaign office speaking with potential donors. His phone blitz has helped him raise more money than Ms. Reno, $987,000 to $664,000. Mr. Bush has far outpaced the Democratic candidates, raising nearly $3 million, according to campaign reports.
Mr. McBride is also running a grass-roots operation that has already paid dividends. While Mr. Bush offered to send either his lieutenant governor or a video to represent him at a candidate forum of the Florida Education Association, for example, Mr. McBride not only showed up but also had been calling teachers months in advance, pointing out that his two children were enrolled in public schools.
Mr. McBride won the teachers union's support and last month picked up another major endorsement, the Florida A.F.L.-C.I.O. The two unions, with a combined membership of more than 600,000 in Florida, are a powerful voting bloc.
Ms. Reno's campaign said she was still the favorite among Democrats and would gain wider union support after she won the primary.
"We feel very confident that we will get past the primary because Democrats are behind Janet," said Mo Elleithee, Ms. Reno's campaign manager. "People want to know that their governor has a record of dealing with issues and of running government agencies."
Mr. McBride has honed his talking points to emphasize education, the environment and other popular campaign themes. He says Mr. Bush has not done enough on those issue or to look out for Florida's large population of the elderly.
The Bush campaign paints Mr. McBride as an armchair athlete who picks apart a coach's game plan from his living room. 
"He has not proposed any specifics at all detailing what it is he plans to do as governor, other than the fact that he doesn't like Jeb Bush," said Todd Harris, a spokesman for the Bush campaign. "We're going to run on a record of accomplishments, be it McBride or Reno. We are spending a historical record amount on education; we have a strong record on economic growth and job creation."
But the possibility that Mr. McBride's centrist views could appeal to swing voters concerns the Bush camp, Mr. Jewett of the University of Central Florida said. "If I were Jeb Bush, I would want to run against Janet Reno," he said. "Republicans are more familiar with her and her strategy, but with McBride there is an element of surprise."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill McBride, a Democratic candidate for Florida governor, appealed this week for the support of Haitians as he met with activists in the Fort Lauderdale Haitian community, Francois Leconte, right, and Marvin Dejean. (David Friedman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: HOLLAND & KNIGHT LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA; MCBRIDE, BILL; RENO, JANET; BUSH, JEB (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (51%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



115 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Calpers to Invest $100 Million in Vineyards 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: NAPA, Calif., April 5 

 BODY:
The California Public Employees' Retirement System plans to invest $100 million to develop vineyards in California, Oregon and Washington with the closely held Premier Pacific Vineyards Inc. 
 The investment, part of Calpers' $13.3 billion real estate portfolio, is the pension fund's first investment in agriculture. 
Premier Pacific said it would put up $10 million. 
 The venture plans to acquire land, and plant, harvest and sell grapes, then sell the developed parcels to wine producers within five to seven years. 
Calpers, the biggest pension fund in the nation, and Premier Pacific, which is based in Napa, are betting wine makers will find it more economical to buy existing vineyards rather than invest the time and money to develop their own. 
"The benefit to wine makers is that they don't have to tie up capital for a long period," said Richard Wollack, 56, a chief executive of Premier Pacific and an executive of CB Richard Ellis Services, a commercial property broker based in Los Angeles. By buying existing vineyards "they can get wine to market quicker." 
Calpers and Premier Pacific said they would invest 80 percent of the venture's capital in northern California and the remainder in Washington and Oregon. They plan to grow grapes for wines that cost at least $20 a bottle. 
"The principals of PPV are experienced developers of vineyards with a successful history of selling to notable wine producers," Michael McCook, Calpers' senior investment officer and head of real estate investment, said in a statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); WINE (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WINERIES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); BEVERAGE PRICES (71%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES 

COMPANY: CB RICHARD ELLIS SERVICES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (97%) CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM; PREMIER PACIFIC VINEYARDS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) CALIFORNIA; OREGON; WASHINGTON (STATE)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



116 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Reagan: Was He a Man of Ideas After All? 

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif., March 31 

 BODY:
Ronald Reagan has been out of office for 13 years, and American academics, one group that steadfastly resisted his political charms, are beginning to re-evaluate him.
 A few dozen professors, mostly historians and political scientists, gathered last week at the University of California at Santa Barbara, a few miles from his beloved Rancho del Cielo, to ponder his place in history. Most were cautious. In the keynote address, James T. Patterson, a history professor at Brown University, said the president's reputation was only "marginally higher in 2002 than it was in 1989." 
 On a campus that features palms, not ivy, other scholars discussed how much credit Reagan deserved, compared with Mikhail A. Gorbachev, for ending the cold war, what his impact was on the tax system, and how his attack on the welfare state compared with similar moves in Western Europe. 
But the single most striking argument came from Hugh Heclo, a political scientist at George Mason University, who complained that "the tradition in academia has been to belittle Ronald Reagan."
Mr. Heclo argued that Mr. Reagan "is among that handful of American politicians, and an even smaller group of presidents, who have conducted their careers primarily as a struggle about ideas." Contrast that to what Mr. Patterson called the view of "virtually all students of Reagan's ideas," that the 40th president offered no more than "the well-traveled baggage of anti-statist, anti-Communist conservatism."
Mr. Heclo maintains, however, that the core Reagan idea was a "sacramental vision" of America; "God's unique relation to America was the central chord from which all else followed."
Mr. Heclo cited phrases familiar to anyone who listened to Mr. Reagan's speeches: America as "the last best hope of man on earth" and (borrowing from John Winthrop's sermon aboard the Arbella on the way to America in 1630) as a "shining city on a hill," a beacon to mankind. But he also drew on speeches Mr. Reagan gave before he was deeply involved in politics, like a 1952 address when he said, "I believe that God in shedding his grace on this country has always in this divine scheme of things kept an eye on our land and guided it as a promised land."
Mr. Reagan conveyed this vision through storytelling, Mr. Heclo said. In his final Oval Office speech, he spoke of the aircraft carrier Midway as a metaphor for America as the redeemer nation, "rescuing a tiny boat of refugees adrift in an open sea."
Mr. Heclo, who said he had never voted for Mr. Reagan and disagreed with many of his policies, said that when "Reagan's more intellectually sophisticated critics in mainstream academia" dismissed these ideas as "nothing new," they missed the point.
"The important point is not that Reagan ever said anything fundamentally new, but that in the new context created by the 60's, Reagan continued to uphold something old," Mr. Heclo said. "For all its positive accomplishments, the 60's mentality," he said, "went a long way in undermining respect for inherited values and beliefs. America's special mission in the world was unmasked as exploitation and oppression. The hand of providence appeared as pompous nonsense in a world now seen to be ruled by the calculated exercise of power."
This was not all abstract, Mr. Heclo said. Mr. Reagan saw the United States as confronted by evil, "whereby the nation's chosenness stood over against the powers of darkness." Mr. Reagan, he said, "saw Communist states as simply the latest enemy on the offensive against the American idea of freedom, an enemy that needed to be defeated rather than accommodated."
His vision also drove his view of government as a threat to individual freedom. The idea that the government should not tell people what to do could seem nonsensical at one level, Mr. Heclo said, but it was also "true to the Lockean tradition of American liberalism." Thus, Mr. Heclo said, Mr. Reagan would say such things as "Legitimate government was a created instrument of the people, lacking any independent existence," and, "It was the people who told the government what it was allowed to do, not the other way round."
Mr. Reagan's vision, Mr. Heclo said, had three major blind spots, however. One was in failing to see that government was more than an institution of bureaucracy, that Americans believed in the government and liked many things it did. "The positive, constructive role of constitutional government was profoundly and incurably lost on Reagan."
A second was the failure to see that it was not just government that could "devour individuals' freedom and the traditional values of their communities." This meant that Reagan could be used as camouflage by "selfish business interests" that could not have cared less about "the shining city."
Finally, he said the president's view of America "sailed dangerously close to idolatry." Mr. Heclo said, "For Reagan, the oversoul of the nation, intrinsically innocent, is assigned an ultimacy that seems indistinguishable from worship."
The conference had been scheduled to come about a year after a major release of Mr. Reagan's presidential papers at his library in Simi Valley, south of here, with the expectation that those documents would provide new insights. But the Bush administration delayed the release of most of them until this year, so relatively little research from new sources was presented. One of the conference's sponsors, University Press of Kansas, plans to collect the papers in a book next year.
On more confined subjects than Mr. Heclo's, some fresh perspectives were offered. W. Elliott Brownlee, a professor of American economic history at Santa Barbara, argued that despite Mr. Reagan's deep antagonism to the income tax, dating from his days as a successful movie actor who paid a marginal rate of 91 percent, he actually "strengthened the political foundation of the income tax system."
Mr. Brownlee, whose paper was written jointly with C. Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute in Washington, said this occurred because Mr. Reagan insisted on across-the-board tax cuts in 1981, when supply-siders were more interested in slashing the top rates, and then backed the elimination of loopholes (and with it more rate-cutting) in 1986. The outcome was not the burst in economic activity he had promised (growth rates in the 80's were about what they were in the 70's) but rather broad popular support for the income tax Mr. Reagan himself loathed.
Several papers examined the end of the cold war and how important Mr. Reagan's arms buildup, particularly the Strategic Defense Initiative, was to it.
Samuel F. Wells Jr., the director of West European studies at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, said Mr. Reagan's belief in a ballistic missile shield should not have come as a surprise, because it knit together his belief in unlimited American technological ability and his desire to eliminate nuclear weapons. But he and several others disputed the idea that the Soviet Union had agreed on major arms reductions because they could not afford to spend enough to match the American shield. And there was a distinct inclination to give Mr. Gorbachev more credit than Mr. Reagan for the end of the cold war. Sheldon Anderson, an associate professor of history and international studies at the University of Miami in Ohio, observed that in Eastern Europe, where Communism fell, scholars do not give much responsibility to Mr. Reagan.
Despite Mr. Brownlee's conclusion about building support for the tax system, there was little favorable comment on economic and domestic policies. Mr. Patterson offered only faint praise when he said, "It is hard to know whether the huge deficits were altogether a bad thing." He said that "however frightening they seemed at the time," the economy survived them.
Bruce J. Schulman, an associate professor of history at Boston University, argued that cuts in welfare state provisions were more significant in the United States than in European countries that were also retrenching in the 80's because other countries maintained a more effective safety net, "but the United States distinguished itself for its lack of solicitude for its worst-off citizens."
But perhaps the single most important lesson for the academics was offered by Lou Cannon, a retired Washington Post reporter and the author of four Reagan books. He said: "Reagan invited us to underestimate him. He felt that gave him an advantage."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As early as 1952, Ronald Reagan spoke of a special relationship between God and the United States. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); HISTORY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); REFUGEES (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%) CLYMER, ADAM; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; HECLO, HUGH (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



117 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; 
Hopes for Mideast Send Oil Prices Down

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Crude oil prices fell for a third day as President Bush sought an Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian territory.
 Prices surged 21 percent in March on concern that fighting between Israel and the Palestinians, and a possible American attack on Iraq, would disrupt supplies from the Middle East. 
 Crude oil for May delivery fell 37 cents yesterday, or 1.4 percent, to $26.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices were down 0.4 percent this week. In London, crude oil for May settlement fell $1.32, or 4.8 percent, to $25.99 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange. Prices in London were little changed this week. 
There is growing skepticism that Middle East oil producers will be able to organize an embargo as a show of support for the Palestinians. Most OPEC members say they will keep exports moving even though Iran's religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said that Islamic nations should suspend oil exports for one month to countries that support Israel. Iraq called for an embargo earlier this week.
"The Iranians wouldn't dare cut supplies without the cooperation of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the U.A.E.," said Mordechai Abir, director of energy and geopolitical research at Burnham Securities in New York. "All they would accomplish would be to lose market share."
Iran and Iraq, the second- and fourth-largest producers in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, are the only exporters to suggest using oil as a "weapon."
OPEC expects crude oil prices to decline once Secretary of State Colin L. Powell arrives in the Middle East in an effort to negotiate an end to the fighting. OPEC dismissed the call for a one-month embargo against supporters of Israel.
"The market is overestimating the chances of a supply disruption," said Doug Leggate, an analyst at Commerzbank Securities in London. 
OPEC reduced output quotas starting Jan. 1 to the lowest level in a decade in an effort to bolster prices, which fell 26 percent last year. Weak demand means the group "probably" will not open the taps when it meets on June 26, OPEC's secretary general, Ali Rodriguez, said.
"I believe the price in the next days will be declining to a real level, according to the fundamentals," Mr. Rodriguez said. "It all depends on the solution of this conflict."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since October 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); FUTURES (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); RELIGION (68%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); COMMERZBANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); CZB (LSE) (53%); CBK (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (52%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



118 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Says That North Agrees to Resume U.S. Talks 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Saturday, April 6 

 BODY:
South Korea said today that North Korea has agreed to resume dialogue with the United States after months of growing tensions between the two countries.
 The announcement was made by a special presidential envoy, Lim Dong Won, on his return this morning from a four-day visit to North Korea. 
 "Leader Kim Jong Il has expressed willingness to open dialogue with the United States, and will accept a U.S. envoy's visit to the North," Mr. Lim said at a news conference in Seoul. 
The White House declined to comment Friday night. One official said the administration was still trying to confirm news media reports.
Although no immediate comment was available from North Korean officials, Mr. Lim's visit appeared to place North Korea and South Korea back on the track of rapprochement, after more than year of limited contacts and scant cooperation.
At the news conference Mr. Lim said the two Koreas had agreed to a resumption of cross-border visits by families separated by the 1950-53 Korean War, as well as the resumption of a variety of "good will projects."
He said the new agreements, reached after a long meeting with Mr. Kim, would "fully revive the North-South rapprochement."
In their June 2000 summit meeting in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea and his North Korean counterpart, Mr. Kim, agreed to the reconnection of their national railroads, as well as other forms of economic cooperation. 
The agreement by North Korea to receive a visit by a United States envoycame after pledges of willingness by the Bush administration to meet "anytime, anywhere."
Tensions between Washington and Pyongyang have risen sharply since Mr. Bush's State of the Union Address in January, in which he included North Korea in what he called an "axis of evil." Since then, the administration has told North Korea that it considers the country to be out of compliance with a negotiated agreement aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); KOREAN WAR (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%) FRENCH, HOWARD W; LIM DONG WON; KIM JONG IL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (59%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



119 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Springtime for Saddam 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
What a glorious season this has been for Saddam Hussein. After a winter of adjective-rattling, the Bush administration has still shown no sign of converting its doctrine (evil Saddam must go) into a practical strategy. The United Nations is entangled in another round of diplomatic flimflam, in which Iraq will agree to admit weapons inspectors, someday, as long as they don't go anywhere actual weapons might be found. Even the economic recovery plays into Saddam's hands. More business demands more fuel, meaning more black-market cash and more leverage for the world's No. 4 producer of crude oil.
 Now, oh joyous day, the Palestinian human bombs and the Israeli tanks have created a monumental distraction, sapping the momentum hawks hoped would carry America into Baghdad. 
 My candidate for underreported news item of the season is the announcement last month by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz that Iraq was increasing the blood money it pays to families of Palestinian suicide bombers, from $10,000 to $25,000. I'm not suggesting that market forces are the main impetus for the rise in terror, but in the West Bank or Gaza $25,000 is not a meaningless incentive. 
The point is, Saddam clearly appreciates the synergy between his fate and the Palestinian-Israeli death cycle. Does the Bush administration? 
The ideologues inside and outside the administration who are most gung-ho to eliminate Saddam are the same people who fought to keep President Bush from interfering in Ariel Sharon's offensive on the West Bank. They argue that we should embrace Mr. Sharon's war as a replica of our war against Islamic terror. Even if you believe that constitutes a kind of moral consistency, it is a self-defeating position in the real world.
The tighter America clings to Mr. Sharon, the more the Arab rank-and-file is aroused against America, the more the antiterror alliance is strained and the more Saddam becomes a folk hero. Arab neighbors who, in private, might love to see Saddam fed to the worms have little choice but to kiss his emissaries and proclaim their solidarity, as they did at the Arab League summit.
Winning Arab support for a campaign against Iraq is not the only reason, or even the best reason, that Mr. Bush is right to invest some political capital in calming the Israeli-Palestinian hostilities. But the two things are intimately connected. Restoring a political dialogue on the future of Israel and Palestine is a prerequisite for doing anything about Saddam. As long as Arab passions are so inflamed, we will lack the necessary support for any move against Saddam, diplomatic or military.
I think the hawks are right that Saddam is a menace to the safety of the free world. My threshold question is not whether he can be shown to have a working kinship with Al Qaeda -- although that would be nice to prove for the purpose of rallying world opinion. The critical question, in a world recently awakened to the monstrous possibilities of human hatred, is this: Can we live with a chronically aggressive, genocidal tyrant who possesses a nuclear weapon?
The only argument for answering yes to that question is that even if Saddam got a nuclear weapon, he would be deterred from using it by the certainty that nuclear America or nuclear Israel would exterminate his regime. Saddam, after all, only preaches suicide, he doesn't practice it.
But I believe there is a large risk -- much too large for comfort -- that he would use a nuke if he got one. I doubt he would have any compunctions about having a terrorist friend deliver it to New York or Tel Aviv, if he thought he could do so without leaving his fingerprints. At a minimum, he would use it to hold us at bay while he had his way in the region. We would think twice next time about defending Kuwait -- or Saudi Arabia -- if Saddam's back-to-the-wall resort was to go nuclear.
Guesses as to how soon Saddam might have a nuclear device range from at least a year to more than five. We know he has the blueprint, and the will. He lacks fissile material. (As far as we know. Iraq has not been inspected for more than three years.) The question is how to stop him.
The options are all bad. They range from patient containment, which Saddam outwits, to an American invasion, which might entail sending a quarter of a million soldiers against an enemy believed to retain a small arsenal of Scud missiles with chemical and biological warheads. The Clinton administration looked very, very hard at the surgical solution of a covert assassination, and also conspired with the Saudis about fomenting a military coup. They determined that Saddam is so ruthless, so paranoid and so elusive that it could not be done without a miraculous stroke of luck.
Kenneth M. Pollack, who handled Persian Gulf affairs for the Clinton White House, cites a characteristic Saddam security tactic: In the middle of the night, send bodyguard squad A into the barracks of bodyguard squad B. Put guns to the heads of the sleeping guards and whisper: "It's a coup, brother. Are you with us?" Any guard who says yes gets an instant bullet in the brain.
Some suggest that whenever Saddam gets close to his nuclear goal, you just bomb his war factories. That assumes you can find them. A nuclear bomb "factory" need not be large, and it can be buried under hardened concrete. Iraq is astonishingly good at hiding things.
Others favor the idea of deputizing an assortment of exiles -- a kind of Iraqi Northern Alliance -- to overthrow Saddam, but the various candidates are militarily too weak to win without major American help, and they are mostly implausible as future rulers of Iraq.
Mr. Pollack, who methodically scrubbed the options in the newest issue of Foreign Affairs, concluded that the United States military should invade Iraq and oversee the replacement of Saddam by a more benign government.
"I come to regime change very reluctantly," he told me. "I recognize all the costs involved. Saddam will have some loyalists who will fight us to the death. We'll end up killing civilians. And invading may be the easy part. At the end of the day, we're going to have to rebuild the place."
Given the uncertainty about what Saddam is up to, there is not an awful lot of time to waste. Here are things we could be doing now:
Preparing for war. Even if you hope Saddam will surrender to inspectors or succumb to a sniper, the administration should be getting ready for a fight. That means preparing American opinion as well as American force for the possibility of a dangerous mission followed by a lengthy occupation. If we're lucky, we won't have to use it. But if we aren't ready to use it, we're betting on phenomenal good luck.
Building a case. Neither Americans nor Saddam's neighbors need persuading that he is a nasty creature. But that's not widely accepted as a justification for going to war. We should push the U.N. Security Council to impose the most intrusive inspection demands possible, with real deadlines for compliance and a blessing for military action if Saddam resists.
Building another coalition. At a minimum this means securing access from some Arab states for our troops, planes and ships, and tacit support from other friends. It would help if we dropped the "axis of evil" bluster and decoupled Iraq from regimes, like Iran and North Korea, that are probably amenable to less drastic measures. We could also procure Russian acquiescence by promising to protect their vast economic interests in a new Iraq.
Handling the Iraqi exiles. Engage them, invite them into a military plan, but don't count on them to do the job and, above all, don't anoint them as the next rulers. The best government in Iraq (for us, for Iraq, for the region) is one Iraqis choose, and are seen to choose, for themselves.
Finishing Afghanistan. Not just mopping up Al Qaeda but, especially, peacekeeping and nation-building. Use Afghanistan to prove that we really care about rebuilding what we conquer. We stand to win more Iraqi hearts and minds -- not to mention broader Arab respect -- if they believe we will stick around to see Iraq back on its feet.
Some of the above the administration is doing already, without fanfare. But first, and not least, the U.S. has to try to quiet the Israeli-Palestinian violence and rescue some hope of a settlement. Because it's the right thing to do, yes, but also because the road to Baghdad leads through Jerusalem. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (87%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); UNITED NATIONS (58%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) KELLER, BILL; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ; ISRAEL; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



120 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Rise in Unemployment Suggests a Slow Recovery
The Labor Department reported that unemployment rose to 5.7 percent in March, erasing the improvement since January and suggesting that the recovery is not yet benefiting workers. Still, the March numbers were laced with good news -- employers added workers, manufacturers increased overtime and fewer layoffs were reported.
 But the evidence of weak job gains has dashed speculation that the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates, and it is starting to undermine the pay raises that have helped to sustain consumer spending. Page A1. 

Oprah Ends Her Regular Book Club
Saying it has become harder to find books that she feels compelled to share, Oprah Winfrey will no longer regularly devote broadcasts to Oprah's Book Club. The segment had been one of the biggest boons to book sales since the start of the Book-of-the-Month Club more than 75 years ago. Her viewers sent each of the 46 choices onto the best-seller lists. A1.

Work Rules on Repetitive Injuries
The Bush administration has unveiled a workplace safety policy that requires no mandatory steps by industry, relying on voluntary actions by companies to reduce injuries from repetitive motions. The policy is intended to address the more than 1.8 million injuries, like neck sprains and carpal tunnel syndrome, that occur each year. A1.

Goldman Chairman Defends Firm
The chairman of the Goldman Sachs Group, Henry M. Paulson, says the Securities and Exchange Commission has no grounds to charge the firm or any employees for trading on confidential information about Treasury's plan to stop selling 30-year bonds. C2.

Strain on Veterans' Care System
Veterans struggling to cope with rapidly rising drug costs are pouring into the health care system of the Veterans Affairs Department, so badly straining its resources that in some parts of the country thousands of them are waiting years to see a doctor. A1.

Earnings Decline 46% at Alcoa
Alcoa reported a 46 percent drop in first-quarter earnings, citing a slump in the demand for aluminum. The company reported earnings of $218 million for the quarter, compared with $404 million in the period a year earlier. Revenue fell 19 percent. C4.

Oil Prices Fall a Third Day
Crude oil prices fell for a third day as President Bush sought an Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian territory. In New York, crude oil for May delivery fell 37 cents, to $26.21 a barrel. Prices were down 0.4 percent for the week after surging 21 percent in March. C4.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose, its second higher close after four days of lower share prices. The two broader markets declined. The Dow closed up 36.47 points, to 10,271.64. The Nasdaq index fell 19.72 points, to 1,770.03. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 3.61 points, to 1,122.73. C4.

Postal Service Proposes Overhaul
The Postal Service has sent a proposal to Congress to overhaul its operations, providing more flexibility to raise rates, close offices and reduce the number of days it delivers. A12.

AT&T Sells Cable Systems in West
AT&T plans to sell cable TV systems serving 320,000 subscribers in three states to Bresnan Communications for $735 million. C4.

Times Co. Invests in Cable Channel
The New York Times Company said that it would pay $100 million for a 50 percent stake in the Discovery Civilization Channel, expanding its presence in cable TV. As part of the deal, the channel's owner will buy $40 million in programming from the Times Company. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,271.64 up 36.47Nasdaq composite -- 1,770.03 down 19.7210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.20% down 0.06The euro -- $0.8794 up 0.0016The dollar -- 131.75 yen down 0.54 Graph tracks weekly crude oil prices (near-month contract) from April 2001 through yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); BOOK SALES (75%); BESTSELLERS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); INTEREST RATES (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (83%); BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (69%); ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (83%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (86%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



121 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-4, 8-10

U.S. Envoy Meets Arafat; No Respite From Fighting
President Bush's envoy, Anthony C. Zinni, broke Yasir Arafat's diplomatic isolation, meeting with the Palestinian leader in Ramallah while Israel accelerated its military sweep through the West Bank, despite Mr. Bush's call for a withdrawal. Fighting left at least 26 Palestinians and 1 Israeli soldier dead. Israeli warplanes hit targets in southern Lebanon in retaliation for Hezbollah's firing of antitank grenades across the border. A1

Anti-American protests broke out throughout the Middle East. A1

The Red Cross condemned attacks on its property by Israeli forces. A10

Iran's supreme leader urged Islamic nations to suspend oil exports to countries backing Israel for a month. A9

Anti-Semitic Acts in France
A bomb was defused at a Jewish cemetery, and the police said at least eight people were being held in the firebombing of synagogues Thursday. A3

Irish Sex Abuse Investigation
The government began a formal investigation into the sexual abuse of children by Roman Catholic priests in a rural diocese. The inquiry follows the resignation of a bishop who acknowledged that he had not done enough to stop a pedophile priest. A4

Saying Goodbye to Queen Mum
About 400,000 people gathered in London for a solemn farewell ceremony to Britain's queen mother. A4

World Briefing A10

NATION CHALLENGED A6-7

Pakistan Leader Lays Groundwork to Hold Power
President Pervez Musharraf, who seized power in 1999, said he would hold a referendum next month that would let him stay in power after a return to civilian rule in six months. A6

A Bounty on Western Heads
Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters are said to be offering up to $100,000 for the killing or capture of American soldiers and other Westerners. A6

U.S. Scaling Back Afghan Effort
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is recommending that naval and marine forces committed to the war in Afghanistan be reduced. A6

Military Instructs Civilians
Army medical experts began instructing emergency and hospital workers and others in the New York City region in how to better respond to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear terrorism. A7

NATIONAL A11-13

Veterans Seeking Medicine Strain V.A. Health System
Elderly veterans struggling to cope with rapidly rising drug costs are pouring into the health care system of the Veterans Affairs Department, straining its resources so severely that in some parts of the country thousands wait years to see a doctor. A1

New Policy on Workplace Safety
The Bush administration unveiled a new workplace safety policy that requires no mandatory steps by industry and instead relies on voluntary actions by companies to reduce injuries from repetitive motions on the job. Democratic lawmakers and union leaders were quick to attack the new policy, calling it toothless and far weaker than the Clinton administration regulations that a Republican-dominated Congress repealed 13 months ago. A1

Postal Chief Urges Overhaul
The postmaster general, John E. Potter, said that if universal postal service was to remain practical, the Postal Service must have more flexibility to raise rates, close post offices and limit the days it delivers mail. A12

Utility Faulted on Reactor
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission placed the blame for extensive corrosion discovered in the lid of a nuclear reactor at the Davis-Besse plant, east of Toledo, squarely on FirstEnergy, the power company that operates the reactor, which has been shut down since February. A12

Brawl at Chicago School
Nearly two dozen elementary school students spent the day talking to investigators rather than attending classes, after 18 children were injured Thursday morning when a longstanding rivalry between two neighboring schools erupted into a huge brawl. Thirteen students were treated at hospitals, mostly for minor abrasions, and 23 students, ages 10 to 14, face charges of mob action in juvenile court. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Files Show How Church Mishandled an Abuse Case
Interviews and church and court records show how the New York Archdiocese broke its promise to the family of a Staten Island boy who had accused a Roman Catholic priest of sexual abuse, by allowing the priest, the Rev. Edward A. Pipala, to continue to work with children, to benefit from old friendships with influential peers and to not follow through on the therapy that the priest had sought. A1

The new bishop of the Metuchen Diocese said in a letter to Central New Jersey parishioners that any future accusations of abuse would be handled in an "immediate, legal, responsible and credible manner." But the scope of the new policy fell short of policies announced by some other dioceses in the region. On Long Island, the Suffolk County district attorney sought to impanel a special grand jury to investigate abuse cases. B4

Firefighters Warned on Drugs
The Fire Department alerted firefighters that it planned to begin strict enforcement of its zero-tolerance policy on illegal drugs and would dismiss those who failed drug tests. B1

Plans for Rooftop Cleanup
City and federal officials said efforts would begin within weeks to clean the exteriors of hundreds of buildings around the trade center site to keep pollutants like asbestos from blowing off them and into apartments. B1

Attack in Theater District
A man was severely beaten on 46th Street near Ninth Avenue at 11:45 p.m. Thursday, the police said. The 27-year-old victim was in critical condition with a broken neck. Three men were in custody. B1

Beliefs B6

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

OBITUARIES A16

SPORTS D1-8

Yanks Win Home Opener
The Yankees shut out the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, 4-0, in the Bronx to raise their record to 3-1. D1

The Mets won in Atlanta, 9-3. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Jobless Rate Ticks Back Up
The national unemployment rate rebounded 0.2 percentage points in March, to 5.7 percent, erasing the improvement since January and suggesting that the improving economy was not yet benefiting workers. A1

Winfrey Ending Book Picks
Oprah Winfrey said her show would no longer devote broadcasts to her influential Oprah's Book Club on a regular basis. Authors and publishers mourned the loss of one of the biggest boons to reading and sales since creation of the Book-of-the-Month Club. A1

U.S. and Andersen in Talks
Lawyers for Arthur Andersen met with federal prosecutors for the first time since the Justice Department charged the firm with obstruction of justice in the Enron investigation. Details were not made public. C1

Passengers on Camera
JetBlue has become the first airline to install tiny cameras in a passenger cabin so that pilots can monitor passengers on cockpit screens. Nineteen other airlines are seeking F.A.A permission to install cameras. Critics say privacy may be compromised. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Reconsidering the city budget; a master terrorist is nabbed; the disappearing scholar-athlete.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); VETERANS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); TALIBAN (77%); ARMIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); AL-QAEDA (74%); SEX SCANDALS (72%); BRITISH MONARCHS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); HOSPITALS (65%); HEALTH CARE (65%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (60%); REFERENDUMS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002 



122 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
When Sick Is Too Sick to Fly

BYLINE:  By HOPE REEVES; HOPE REEVES writes frequently for The Times.

 BODY:
WILL PATERSON knew he was coming down with a cold when he boarded a plane from Denver to Boston in February. "No big deal," recalled Mr. Paterson, a 19-year-old University of Colorado freshman. "It wasn't like I was dying," he said. By the time the plane landed four hours later, he had an entirely different perspective. "It feels like my head is going to explode," he remembers telling his mother from a phone at baggage claim.
 Mr. Paterson was certainly not dying, but because his sinuses were clogged and unable to decompress as the plane descended, the pressure in his skull made him feel as if he were. By the time he returned to Denver three days later, the fluid in his sinuses had become infected, leaving him in considerable pain. His doctor prescribed antibiotics, then prednisone, an oral steroid, to reduce swelling. "Getting on a plane definitely made a bad cold worse," said his doctor, Lonny Granston, of University Family Medicine in Boulder, Colo. 
 While certain conditions preclude flying, dozens of others -- like Mr. Paterson's cold -- are harder to gauge. Those who suspect that air travel may be imprudent should consult their doctor before flying. Some illnesses become more painful in the air, others can worsen and lead to serious physical damage, and still others are completely unaffected.
In-flight pressure changes can create significant discomfort in a host of conditions. Sinusitis, pneumonia, other serious respiratory illnesses, active and intense allergies and ear infections are all good reasons not to fly, as cavities filled with fluid expand and put pressure on the brain, according Dr. Russell B. Rayman, executive director of the Aerospace Medical Association in Alexandria, Va. (The organization's Web site, at www.asma.org, offers some helpful publications, including "Useful Tips for Travel.")
Anyone who has just had abdominal, eye, ear or face surgery should also remain grounded until swelling and pain have subsided, or at least 24 hours, as should those who have had extensive dental work, particularly to repair an abscess, said Dr. Edward R. Rensimer, director of the International Medicine Center in Houston, a practice that specializes in travel health. (Advice can be found on his Web site, which is at www.traveldoc.com.) Those who have suffered a concussion or undergone a colonoscopy should wait a day before flying. Women with high-risk pregnancies should not fly, nor should women who are past their due date.

Flying With a Cast
Anyone who has broken a bone, especially in the foot, ankle or leg, who expects to fly in the next three to five days should ask for a soft cast or splint and keep the limb elevated, as it may swell and ache during the flight, Dr. Rensimer said. Cast or no cast, keeping hydrated, walking the cabin, and not crossing legs is recommended to stave off blood clots and swelling. These tactics can help to prevent deep vein thrombosis -- so-called economy-class syndrome -- or blood clots that can be fatal.
Flying, especially long haul, is not recommended for other conditions because of the amount of time a passenger will be without medical attention, said Dr. Herbert L. DuPont, medical director of the travel medicine department at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston and the author of the "Textbook of Travel Medicine and Health." He warns anyone with severe abdominal cramps that are confined to one area to seek medical attention before traveling, particularly if the pain is accompanied by fever, chills or blood in the stool. "Within a few hours an infected appendix or gall bladder can rupture," he said. 
Migraine sufferers can usually evaluate for themselves whether they're fit for travel, but Dr. DuPont recommends that anyone experiencing a headache accompanied by blurred vision should see a doctor before departure, as this can be evidence of a coming aneurysm or stroke.
Obviously, anyone with a chronic illness who has recently suffered a major episode, be it a seizure disorder, asthma, psychosis, severe anemia, diabetes, hypertension, heart attack or stroke, should get a doctor's permission before flying, said Dr. Rensimer, who supplies his chronically ill patients with travel kits before they take a plane. These boxes include medications for the particular illness plus emergency tools like injectable steroids and epinephrine for severe asthmatics and those with potentially lethal allergies. Since Sept. 11, all syringes must be accompanied by a professionally printed prescription label or a doctor's note.

A 'Destination' Doctor
It's not a bad idea for chronic disease sufferers and those who have recently been ill to locate a doctor at the travel destination, especially if the planned stay is long. Patients find this not only comforting, Dr. Rensimer said, but also invaluable in case of a flare-up. Some doctors recommend packing double the medication in case of changed plans or travel delays, and all stress that medications should be packed in a carry-on, since checked bags can be lost.
Anyone with a serious communicable illness should not fly, Dr. Rayman said. This includes active tuberculosis, meningitis, malaria and hepatitis, among others. In each case the prospective passenger should get a doctor's confirmation that the illness is out of its contagious phase before planning a trip. Children with active chicken pox should also not fly, because the virus, if contracted by an adult or someone with a compromised immune system, can be fatal, Dr. Rayman said. Doctors caution against taking infants with diarrhea on board, as frequent diaper changing and thus spreading of germs is necessary and dehydration of the infant likely.
Those with less dangerous but equally contagious conditions like cold or flu should be considerate if they do fly. "I recommend limiting your circulation in the plane -- in other words, staying in your seat unless you need to use the lavatory," said Dr. DuPont, who also suggests thorough hand washing and no hand shaking or cheek kissing, along with the obvious: covering the nose and mouth during coughing and sneezing. Passengers sitting within four to six feet of the infected person are most at risk of contracting the illness, said Dr. Rensimer, though he added that catching a virus is no more likely in a plane than in a restaurant with closely packed tables.
Dr. Rensimer has established a routine of "clearing" even his seemingly healthy patients before long flights, particularly those who fly frequently for business or are over 50. He gives them stress tests on a treadmill, looks at risk factors like obesity, smoking and a family history of heart disease or high blood pressure, and screens them for conditions that could be aggravated by flying. Dr. Rensimer also urges his patients with untreated conditions like gall bladder disease or hernias to have them taken care of before leaving home.
"You just don't want to find yourself in a fix six miles up," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rupert Howard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); COMMON COLD (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (75%); SINUSITIS (75%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); STEROIDS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); FAMILY PRACTICE (73%); TRAVELERS HEALTH (72%); PNEUMONIA (70%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (68%); ENDOSCOPY (64%); BRAIN INJURIES (63%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); WEB SITES (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (84%)

PERSON: REEVES, HOPE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (88%) COLORADO, USA (88%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



123 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 3965 words

HEADLINE: From Tree-Hugger to Terrorist 

BYLINE:  By Bruce Barcott; Bruce Barcott is a contributing editor at Outside magazine.

 BODY:
Critter glares at me across an empty table. "I'm sorry you've come all this way," he says. Critter, whose legal name is Craig Marshall, is an intense young man with short-trimmed hair, a scraggly beard and flared side chops that give him the look of a singer in a rockabilly band. He is a vegetarian anarchist who spent several months living nearly 200 feet up a Douglas fir to prevent it from being cut down. Now he sits in an interview room at the Snake River Correctional Institution in the eastern Oregon desert. I've come to talk to him about crossing lines. If he'll talk. 
 "Corporate media protects corporate interests," he tells me. "You'll probably use inflammatory quotes and say I'm some crazy son of a bitch," he says. 
 Critter isn't crazy, but he is a rare specimen. Using the F.B.I.'s definition of the term, Critter is a domestic terrorist. Almost two years ago, he and an accomplice were caught after they firebombed a Chevrolet dealership in Eugene, Ore. He says he did it to punish carmakers and consumers for their love affair with the gas-hogging S.U.V. Although the pair never claimed the bombing on behalf of the Earth Liberation Front (E.L.F.) -- the eco-terror group that has inflicted, along with its ally the Animal Liberation Front (A.L.F.), more than $43 million in damage on farmers, scientists, foresters, universities, housing developers and business owners -- their crime fit the profile of a classic E.L.F. action. Critter, 28, pleaded guilty and got five and a half years. His accomplice, a quiet 22-year-old forest advocate named Jeffrey Luers, aka Free, went to trial and was rewarded with 22 years and 8 months, the longest sentence ever handed down in an eco-terror case.
Much of America's political conversation since Sept. 11 has focused on the definition of borders, of lines crossed. At what point does a devoted student of Islam volunteer to become a mass murderer? When does legal political protest become terrorism? As one of the few environmental advocates convicted of an eco-terror crime, Critter knows what it is to move across the boundary that separates the peaceful tree-sitter from the violent firebomber. 
Once he agrees to talk, Critter settles into a discussion of the revolution necessary to save a doomed planet. He describes the radical environmental circles in which he traveled as a tight-lipped culture that recognizes arson as a legitimate act of political protest. "It takes all the tools in the toolbox to dismantle the master's machine," he says. "More passive people do tree-sits. More active people are comfortable risking their well-being. There's a line a lot of people are not willing to cross. I was willing to cross it." 
But why -- and why now? In some respects, we live in a golden age of ecological awareness. More Americans identify themselves as environmentalists now than at any time in the nation's history. Recycling programs, a radical notion 30 years ago, have become commonplace. Organic grocers thrive. 
We also find ourselves in a singularly bad time to be a terrorist in America. And yet the E.L.F. remains one of the nation's most active and destructive domestic terrorist organizations. In the weeks after Sept. 11, worldwide revulsion over the terrorist attacks inspired surprising gestures of peace. The Irish Republican Army announced that it would dismantle its weapons arsenal; Basque separatists made peace overtures. No such pause disrupted the calendar of the E.L.F. On Sept. 16, E.L.F. members ripped up oil-exploration survey markers near Moab, Utah, and left a note telling the company to "drill in hell." On Oct. 15, an E.L.F. firebomb leveled a United States Bureau of Land Management wild-horse corral 80 miles north of Reno, Nev. On Nov. 6, the police discovered crude E.L.F.-style firebombs set next to two forestry buildings on the Houghton, Mich., campus of Michigan Technical University. The attacks have continued in 2002. On Jan. 26, an E.L.F.-claimed fire damaged a construction site at the University of Minnesota, where a plant-genetics research center was being built.
The audacious timing of the E.L.F.'s crime spree surprised terrorism scholars, who worry that the forest monkey-wrenchers may be growing into a classic revolutionary organization. 
"I'm afraid these people might be the real anarchists," says Gary R. Perlstein, a Portland State University criminologist who has tracked the E.L.F. since its inception. "Not just the talkers, but the bomb throwers and assassins." 
There are now Web sites, videotapes and quarterly zines dedicated to the E.L.F.'s increasingly violent actions. F.B.I. agents and federal prosecutors have been able to arrest only a few of its members. And as the group widens its targets and increases the violence of its attacks, experts are wondering what further boundaries the group's supporters are willing to cross. What happens when the E.L.F. realizes that firebombs aren't getting the job done? 
The E.L.F. is actually a British export. In 1992, a handful of environmental advocates in Brighton, England, broke away from Earth First! to form a more radical splinter group, the Earth Liberation Front. The E.L.F.'s members, who referred to themselves as elves, abandoned aboveground politics in favor of direct action. This decoupling allowed Earth First! to concentrate on legitimate mainstream campaigns while the E.L.F. carried out the dirty work of tree spiking, sabotage and arson. 
Two years later, Judi Bari, the Northern California Earth First! leader, called for a similar move in the United States. "It's time," she wrote in Earth First! Journal, "to leave the night work to the elves in the woods." 
The American version of the E.L.F. announced its existence in October 1996 by torching a United States Forest Service truck in Oregon's heavily logged Willamette National Forest. A few months later, the group declared its alliance with the A.L.F., which had been attacking mink farms and research laboratories since the early 1980's. "Leave the forests alone," warned one communique, "and no one gets hurt." 
For the next year, the E.L.F. limited its attacks to traditional anti-logging and animal rights targets, burning horse corrals, a meat-packing plant and federal agriculture buildings. In 1998, the group began going after bigger game. E.L.F.-set fires did $12 million worth of damage to a ski resort in Vail, Colo., and E.L.F. members destroyed the Medford, Ore., office of U.S. Forest Industries, a private timber company. 
Into this drama stepped Craig Marshall and Jeffrey Luers. Luers, a child of the Southern California suburbs, became politically active as a teenager when he saw that the American government was spending billions of dollars on military projects while homeless people went hungry. He wrote to politicians but got form-letter replies. He became a door-to-door canvasser for the Sierra Club but grew disillusioned with the group. In the spring of 1998, at age 19, he hopped a freight train to Eugene and found kinship in the town's thriving anarchist community. One night at Out of the Fog, a funky downtown organic teahouse that serves as the watering hole for Eugene's circle-A crowd, Luers watched a slide show about Warner Creek, a section of the nearby Willamette National Forest that environmental advocates saved from logging by occupying the trees in 1995 and 1996. 
"I was like, Wow -- here's people that are getting out there, and they're actually stopping logging, they're not lobbying about stopping logging, which is what I'd just been doing for the last seven months," Luers told a reporter for The Portland Oregonian. (Luers, who is appealing his sentence, declined to be interviewed for this article.) 
A new tree-sit was born that spring. In March 1998, the Forest Service sold the logging rights for a 96-acre section along Fall Creek in the Willamette National Forest, about 35 miles southeast of Eugene, to a local timber company. Critics of the sale charged that the Forest Service had shirked its duty to complete the wildlife surveys that are required under the Northwest Forest Plan. The old-growth and second-growth Douglas firs along Fall Creek are home to the red tree vole, a fir-needle-eating rodent that's a dietary staple of the northern spotted owl, which is still threatened. While mainstream environmental groups sued the Forest Service, a small band of forest advocates blocked the logging road and camped on high-canopy platforms to stop the cut. Luers was among them. 
A tree-sit is a cold, harsh, lonely way to save a forest. At Fall Creek, Luers and fellow advocates built plywood-and-tarp dwellings 200 feet up trees they gave names like Happy and Fanghorn. A bucket hanging beneath the platform served as the bathroom. 
Craig Marshall joined the sit that fall. An Easterner reared in a small Massachusetts town, Marshall held political beliefs that weren't so much pro-environment as anti-authority. "I never had much use for people telling me what to do," he recalls. "Back in the fifth grade, I was already questioning the Pledge of Allegiance." After hitchhiking to Eugene, Marshall heard about the Fall Creek sit at Out of the Fog and immediately volunteered. 
During the warm months, idealistic advocates flocked to Fall Creek from all over the country, drawn to their generation's version of Freedom Summer. Come November, the cold Pacific storms drove away all but a handful of advocates, including Marshall and Luers. Marshall changed his name to Critter. Luers became Free. The two became friends.
When you're living in a tree-sit, there's a lot of time to swap stories of the horrors of industrial forestry in action. And in truth, it's not a pretty sight. The romantic vision of a chain-saw-toting lumberjack bears as much resemblance to mechanized forestry as a pioneer hog farmer to an industrial slaughterhouse. A hydraulic feller buncher, which looks like a power shovel with claws and saws, can grasp, cut and delimb a Douglas fir in one terrifyingly swift motion. 
There's also a lot of time in a tree-sit to consider the great chasm that exists between mainstream eco-consciousness and the dire situation faced by the planet. In the past few years, scientists have issued ever more gloomy warnings about global warming. Biologists tell us we have entered a period of catastrophic species extinction. And when you're out there living as one with the wind, rain, mud, mushrooms and squirrels, it occurs to you that recycling our beer cans just ain't gonna get the job done. So you start to look for ways to shock humanity into action. 
"If one in 10 people care about the planet," Marshall says, "that one person has to do 10 times as much as those other 9." 
At this point, Marshall and Luers may have begun talking about taking things a step further, but they probably kept their conversations to themselves. "Veteran activists only allow a select few to know about their involvement with the E.L.F./A.L.F.," instructs a security primer posted on several forest-advocacy Web sites. "And those few consist of the cell members who they do the actions with AND NO ONE ELSE!" 
The E.L.F. is made up of a series of small cells that remain mostly unaware of one another's identities and plans. In "Igniting the Revolution: An Introduction to the Earth Liberation Front," a $10 video sold in Portland's counterculture bookshops, Craig Rosebraugh, then the E.L.F.'s spokesman, urges volunteers to start their own units rather than try to join one. "There's no realistic chance of becoming active in an already existing cell," he says. "Take initiative; form your own cell."
Other groups, including the I.R.A., Al Qaeda and right-wing patriot factions, were organized around this leaderless resistance model but never were truly leaderless. Their imagined world ultimately requires a hierarchy. The E.L.F., rooted in a philosophy of anarchist primitivism, dreams of peaceful leaderless tribes living in robust ecosystems. "In a tribe, you take care of each other," Critter says. "There's no need for Big Brother to take care of you."
This is the conundrum of the E.L.F., and the reason the group is so difficult to track or to stop: there is no membership; there are only acts. Anyone can join -- tonight -- by torching a science lab. Existing cells may applaud your crime but will not contact you. And so law enforcement agencies have found the group impossible to infiltrate. "They know each other and don't tolerate strangers," says Bob Holland, a Eugene, Ore., police detective who has been investigating eco-terror crimes since 1997. "It's not like infiltrating the Mafia, where you can go to Joe Bonanno and say, 'The goodfellas down the street recommended me.' These people are hanging with people they've known for years, and when they decide to do a direct action, they're the only ones talking about it."
Beginning in December 1999, the E.L.F. began directing its firebombs against an array of new and sometimes puzzling targets. Arson fires burned the laboratory offices of researchers studying plant genetics at Michigan State University and the University of Washington. More E.L.F. fires destroyed houses under construction on Long Island and in Bloomington, Ind. E.L.F. members smashed windows at an Old Navy store in Huntington, N.Y., and tried to burn down a Nike outlet in Albertville, Minn. The Republican Party Committee headquarters in Monroe County, Ind., was burned because, according to an E.L.F. communique, the party supported the extension of an interstate highway. 
What happened? In a word, Seattle. When the antiglobalization movement exploded at the November 1999 World Trade Organization meeting, E.L.F. advocates realized two things. First, violence gets attention. Second, their targets were too limited. After Seattle, the E.L.F. realized that its beef wasn't merely with the Forest Service; the problem was global capitalism itself. Any symbol of that system -- a new subdivision, a botany lab, a political clubhouse, a car dealership -- became a target.
A year into the Fall Creek sit, Critter began to question the effectiveness of his own limited campaign. While he was saving the tree beneath him, he says, he watched a section of forest across the valley fall to the saw. At the same time, government prosecutors began to squeeze some of the region's prominent radicals. In February 2000, the home and office of Rosebraugh, the E.L.F. spokesman, were raided. 
It's difficult to mark the exact moment when a radical advocate chooses to cross the line separating civil disobedience from violent crime. But sometime in May or June 2000, Jeffrey Luers and Craig Marshall decided to take that step. Behind them trailed years of political frustration and legal hassles. Within them burned the conviction that greedy humans were annihilating the natural world. Ahead of them lay Chaos Days 2000. 
In the late spring of 2000, a local advocacy group called Eugene Active Existence organized the Seven Week Revolt, a smash-the-state festival to commemorate the one-year anniversary of the city's June 18, 1999, anarchist riot. The days leading up to June 18 were dubbed Chaos Days, and it was during that week that Luers and Marshall came down from the trees to join in the parties and protests. Chanting slogans wasn't enough for them, though. 
"I realized that the only way to hurt a corporation is in the wallet," Marshall says. "If you do it hard enough and long enough, they'll go out of business." 
They chose a target: Joe Romania Chevrolet, a car dealership at the edge of the University of Oregon campus. To the tree dwellers, Romania's blocklong lineup of $25,000 trucks and S.U.V.'s symbolized consumer decadence at its worst. "They're gas-guzzling monsters, destroying everything they encounter," Marshall later explained. "They're a status symbol for rich American consumers, who are killing more people on this planet than anyone else." 
The elves' weapon of choice remains the firebomb, schematics for which can be downloaded from the E.L.F. Web site. "On a pound-for-pound basis," the anonymous authors explain, "incendiaries can do more damage than explosives against many type sic targets if properly used." The 20-page pamphlet includes instructions on creating flake aluminum-sulfur igniters, thermate incendiary devices and homemade napalm. Critter and Free's devices were crude but effective: gallon milk jugs filled with fuel and stopped with sponge wicks.
Marshall and Luers did their due diligence, observing the rounds of the night watchman. "Precautions were taken to make sure nobody was hurt," Marshall later said. Soon after midnight on June 16, Luers and Marshall parked a borrowed car across the busy boulevard from Joe Romania Chevrolet. They nervously passed a cigarette back and forth. Carrying their sloshing milk jugs, they crossed the street and followed a dark bicycle path to the crowded lot, where they placed the devices under two new Chevy pickups and sparked a Bic lighter to the wicks. 
"Down under the truck, my heart is pounding," Luers later recalled in an account written for Earth First! Journal. "Wow! I'm really doing this. Why? Then I remember being a kid growing up in Los Angeles, having to stay inside some days because the smog was too bad to go outside. I was 6 expletive years old, and I couldn't play outside because the air was hazardous to my health. It has gotten worse since!" 
As the fire raged, Marshall and Luers drove to the neighboring town of Springfield. E.L.F. actions are sometimes claimed with spray paint at the scene of the crime or via an anonymous encrypted e-mail message sent to the E.L.F. spokesperson or posted on the E.L.F. Web site, but the truck burners were ambivalent about claiming their action. "I don't know if we would or wouldn't have gotten a communique out," Marshall later said. "The point isn't to let people know. The point is to stop it then and there."
What Luers and Marshall didn't know was that undercover cops from the Eugene Police Department had been tailing them all day. Rumors of a big anarchist party had spread through Eugene, and the police were hoping Luers and Marshall would lead them to the clandestine kegger. Although they didn't actually see them set the fires, the police observed them acting suspicious around the dealership. After a dispatcher put out a call about a fire at Joe Romania Chevrolet, the police arrested Luers and Marshall. They never made it to the party. 
Marshall pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit arson and unlawful possession of a destructive device and received a five-and-a-half-year sentence. Luers might have gotten a similar sentence, but a police search turned up evidence linking him to an earlier attempted arson. Though Luers denied any connection to the earlier case, he was found guilty of that crime, too, and was sentenced to 22 years and 8 months in state prison. 
The story of Critter and Free illustrates the local political and psychological forces that help inspire a single act of eco-terrorism, but there may be larger historical influences at work as well. Consider the idea that eco-terrorists are at least partly driven by the rising and falling fortunes of their cause. Forty years ago, James C. Davies, a political scientist, proposed the J-curve theory of revolution. Uprisings are most likely to occur, Davies said, when a prolonged period of economic and social progress is followed by a short period of sharp reversal. 
Christopher Hewitt, a University of Maryland, Baltimore County sociologist who is writing a book about terrorism in America, makes a compelling case for adapting the J-curve theory to domestic terrorism. "When your hopes have been raised and you feel there's a chance for victory through legitimate political means, you'd be foolish to resort to terrorism," Hewitt says. "Terrorism is a high-cost option, a weapon of the weak, a tool of last resort. But if your movement suddenly collapses or suffers political reversals, then some activists will be tempted to go for terrorism." 
Two examples: Many antiwar advocates believed that President Johnson's decision not to seek a second term in 1968 signaled the end of the Vietnam conflict. When his successor, Richard Nixon, expanded the war, the most radical activists gravitated to the Weather Underground, a group responsible for several high-profile bombings during the 1970's. Similarly, Ronald Reagan's 1980 election led anti-abortion advocates to expect the demise of Roe v. Wade. But by decade's end, abortion remained legal, and the tactics of radical activists had escalated from pickets to blockades to bombings. With the election of Bill Clinton in 1992, the hopes raised by Reagan were finally crushed. That's when abortion doctors started getting assassinated. 
The emergence of the E.L.F. fits a disturbingly similar pattern. Environmentalists saw Clinton's election as the harbinger of a wave of ecological reform. Eight years of a Democratic administration did bring progress: federal agencies were greened up, air and water standards improved and great swaths of wilderness were saved from development. But eco-advocates were so embittered by Clinton's failure to bring about sweeping change that Al Gore had to fight for the Sierra Club's endorsement in the 2000 election. 
The E.L.F. set off its first major firebomb, in fact, the year after Clinton's 1995 timber-salvage-rider dispute. The salvage rider made it easy for logging companies to harvest trees they claimed were diseased or damaged. It was a sweet deal for the timber industry, a setback for environmentalists. For hardcore greens it was Clinton's Judas moment. 
Following the slow disenchantment of the Clinton era, radical environmentalists are now faced with George W. Bush, the Texas oilman who wants to pump crude out of the Arctic National Wildlife Preserve, rejects the Kyoto global-warming protocols and offers environmentalists three more years of pro-industry rollbacks. Radical greens find themselves in the same situation abortion foes faced in 1993. 
Although the protection of all life remains one of the E.L.F.'s major tenets, some observers wonder if that line will soon be crossed. "Up until now, they haven't harmed the people they're trying to harm," says Gary Perlstein, the domestic-terrorism expert. "When they destroy a tree farm in Clatskanie, Ore., they're not hurting the Weyerhaeusers of the world. I worry that they're going to eventually see that. And then the true believers among them may say, 'Well, maybe we have to assassinate the president of Weyerhaeuser."' 
The E.L.F.'s rhetoric hasn't gone that far yet, but its supporters describe the war they're waging in increasingly dire terms. "If someone had their hands around your throat strangling you, would you gather petition signatures to present to them, politely asking them to stop?" asks a recent issue of Resistance, a quarterly E.L.F. zine. "Would you go limp as a symbolic gesture of your noncooperation? Hopefully you would defend yourself by any means necessary." 
I put the question to Craig Marshall: In a perfect world, what would we do to save the earth? "First, knock down all the concrete," he says. Thinking further, he adds: "The problem is, we've gone too far already. There's no easy solution. For life to survive as we know it, millions of people are going to have to die. It's sad to say that, but it's true. Millions of people are already dying -- it's just gonna have to start happening here." 
That's a pretty chilling statement, I tell him. 
"I'm not saying anybody needs to be executed," he says. "But there's a need for decreasing the population. Look, I don't take life. I fight to protect it. I'm doing the best I can to make sure life survives. Not only human life -- all the other life that humans are extinguishing." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Craig Marshall (Robbie McClaran/Corbis Saba); Anarchy in the U.S.A.: On Oct. 15, the E.L.F. firebombed a federal horse corral; on Nov. 6, E.L.F.-style bombs were found at Michigan Tech. (John Dearing/Bureau of Land Management: Michele Joikinen/The Daily Mining Gazette) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); ECOTERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); POLITICS (85%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (71%); MEAT FREE DIETS (71%); COUNTRY MUSIC (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); BOMBINGS (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); NEW CAR DEALERS (66%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); ARSON (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%) ENVIRONMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (59%) EARTH LIBERATION FRONT (ORGN); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: BARCOTT, BRUCE; MARSHALL, CRAIG 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



124 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 04-07-02: ON LANGUAGE; 
Slippery Slope

BYLINE:  By William Safire 

 BODY:
'In bioethics," writes Robin Henig, a science writer from Takoma Park, Md., "a slippery slope implies a certain inevitability to scientific progress, an inability to put a stop to progressively more loathsome applications of knowledge once we receive knowledge in the first place. When did the term come into use, and what has it meant other than the way we use it today in bioethics?"
 In politics: Archbishop Desmond Tutu, in decrying the undemocratic methods of Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, said that the African nation was "on the slippery slope of perdition." (By using "of," he used perdition to mean "eternal damnation"; had he said "to," it would have meant "hell.") The Nobel laureate Tutu liked that phrase: "When you use violence to silence your critics . . . you are on the slippery slope toward dictatorship." 
 Civil libertarians in the United States use it, too: Otis Moss III, pastor of the Tabernacle Baptist Church in Augusta, Ga., warned that President Bush and his attorney general "stand upon a slippery moral slope as they attempt to respond to this horrific act with legal procedures that shred the foundation of our Constitution."
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. Before the ever-popular phrase was extended into metaphor, it was used by poets who liked the alliteration to mean, simply enough, a muddy hill on which one could break one's neck. Herman Melville in his 1876 "Clarel": "The steeds withstand the slippery slope/While yet their outflung fore-feet grope." And Robert Frost in 1916: "As standing in the river road,/He looked back up the slippery slope/(Two miles it was) to his abode."
But the key task of the phrasedick is to find earliest uses of the current sense of "a course that leads inexorably to disaster." The O.E.D. tracks it to a 1951 novel, but new retrieval technology lets us do better than that. The economist Herbert Heaton wrote in 1928 that Canadian "cards and bills alike found themselves on the steep slippery slope of war finance." And thanks to the Cornell Making of America database, we have this 1857 use from Chamber's Journal: "When the educated person of middle class is reduced to pennilessness . . . what but this gives him the desire to struggle again up the slippery slope of fortune?"
In both those citations, the meaning is closer to "the greasy pole," a figure of political speech popularized by Benjamin Disraeli to describe the difficult climb and easy fall from power. The current sense of "first step in what will be a long slide" probably surfaced in the early 20th century, possibly in an article by a writer in a 1909 Quarterly Review, published in London: "the first step down that slippery slope at the bottom of which lies a parliamentary government for India." If you want to join the phrasedick fellowship, send along an earlier usage and get an effusive accolade.
Nowadays, as Ms. Henig notes, the phrase is often used in controversies about ethics. "It does not make sense to ban stem-cell research where abortion is completely legal and fertility clinics destroy untold embryos," wrote Marcel D'Eon in The StarPhoenix of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, last month. "And it demonstrates what opponents of abortion have been saying for more than 30 years: we are on a slippery slope. Who knows where it will lead?"
Logicians are very cautious about slippery slope arguments because it is impossible to know beforehand, with absolute deductive certainty, that an "if-then" statement is true. President Dwight Eisenhower in 1954 came up with the "falling domino" principle: "You knocked over the first one, and what would happen to the last one was the certainty that it would go over very quickly." This "domino theory" was later much derided by opponents to our defense of South Vietnam. 

FINAGLE
Reporting from the recent Arab summit meeting in Beirut, Neil MacFarquhar of The New York Times wrote that some participants could be found wandering through the smoke-filled hotel lobby talking to "reporters who finagle their way through dragnet security."
The use of that apparent Yiddishism in covering an Arab event struck me as amusing. I turned to Leo Rosten's "Joys of Yiddish" for a rundown on finagle -- and could not find it.
That's because it is not a Yiddishism. (Funny, you don't look English.) Like mishmash, which dates to 15th-century English, the verb finagle is a word that sounds Germanic. It rhymes with bagel, from the Old High German verb boug, "to bend." (A store in Boston calls itself Finagle a Bagel.)
The verb appears occasionally in The Times, especially in the entertainment sections, not in quotation marks. Describing the movie "Family Man": "the plot allows him to finagle his way back to Wall Street." Describing Richard Wagner's "Ring" operas: "You cannot pursue power without sabotaging love; you cannot have love without relinquishing power. Wotan tries to finagle this."
That's because it is not slang, but a once-special term now in such general use that it has shed its dialect status. One proposed origin is in the southwest English shires: fainaigue, "to cheat; to renege on a debt; to deceive by flattery," perhaps associated with the Old French fornier, "to deny."
However, the Dictionary of American Regional English speculates that it may be an eponym from Gregor von Feinaigle, a "German proponent of mnemonics who lectured (and was often ridiculed) in England and France." (It's an easy way to remember his name.)
Finagler first appeared in the United States in 1922. In current use, the element of outright cheating has faded; its primary sense is no longer "to obtain by trickery or dishonest means." Deft deception now dominates: finagle, as we use it today, is "to slyly gain entry or advantage; skillfully to employ a devious scheme to achieve one's ends." A finagler is one who knows the ins and outs of power brokerage and favor exchange, who finds ways to exploit the weaknesses of others, who knows how to use indirection to gain leverage and win some small but useful advantage.
A crook he's not; a devious schemer the finagler remains, drawing minor opprobrium for his methods as well as a tut-tutting admiration for his ability to deliver results. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); RELIGION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POETRY (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); LAWYERS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ZIMBABWE (90%)

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



125 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
English Law to Give Walkers New Access

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
ALMOST 70 years ago, hundreds of British ramblers embarked on what turned out to be one of the most decisive episodes of a long-running contest for access to their nation's swaths of wild, uncultivated but privately owned land.
 On April 21, 1932, the walkers converged on the Peak District in northwestern England, braving bailiffs, police and gamekeepers to demand free access to Kinder Scout, a boggy, high plateau that landowners had sought to close off as an exclusive preserve of upper-crust grouse shooters. The walkers, by contrast, came mostly from working-class sections of industrial Manchester at a time when Britain's class divisions were far less subtly cloaked than they are today. There was more than a whiff of class struggle in the air. 
 The Kinder Scout Mass Trespass, as it became known in folklore and folk song, turned nasty. Ramblers scuffled with gamekeepers and the police. Six of the ramblers were arrested, and five went to prison for several months on charges of riotous assembly. One of them, Benny Rothman, a labor unionist, Communist and avid rambler who died in January, became the emblem of an enduring effort to grant walkers a statutory right to roam at will on land defined as "mountain, moor, heath or down or registered common land."
This year, British ramblers plan to hold a ramble marking the 70th anniversary of the Mass Trespass, and they will have something to celebrate. For the first time since Mr. Rothman's early protests, a law has been passed enshrining the right to roam for British walkers wherever they choose on stretches of nonfarmland.
And while the legislation will not be fully enacted until 2005, some campaigners sense that opposition to granting access is finally waning because last year's foot-and-mouth epidemic, which restricted walking in many rural areas, showed just how important ramblers and hill walkers are to Britain's rural economy.
"Because they spend money in B & B's, pubs and shops, they are absolutely vital to the survival of these businesses," said Sharon Woods, a spokeswoman for the Ramblers Association, a nonprofit advocacy group. 
Of course, in a land that gave the world matched Purdy's shotguns and the kind of weekend shooting party seen most recently in "Gosford Park," there is still some resistance. Owners of moorland used for grouse shooting have not been willing to see legions of ramblers tramping across their domains. 
By their own account, the 47,000 members of the Country Land and Business Association, the main landowners' lobby group, own two-thirds of rural land in England and Wales. (In Scotland, where land ownership is even more restrictive, the Scottish parliament has promised much broader legislation to reform almost feudal laws that give 1,252 private estate owners control of two-thirds of the land. Wales is doing its own mapping.)
Of course, whole areas of Britain are open to the public in national parks, National Trust estates and other places across the land where access was granted in formal agreements in 1949.
The new English legislation promises to open 4,000 square miles of land currently closed to the public by the time mapping is complete and landowners have had time to register objections before the end of 2005. Land above an altitude of roughly 1,900 feet could be opened up sooner, although the new law offers landowners a right to close off access for 28 days and possibly longer each year. So far the Countryside Agency, the government body overseeing the process, has produced two maps showing land to be opened -- of the southeast and the lower northwest, including the Peak District -- for perusal. Six maps of other regions are set to follow. After the publication of each map, anyone can comment for three months, after which another map will be drawn up. After another three months, during which only landowners can object, a final map will be published. Final comments on the last maps are expected in 2004.
Results have been, well, patchy. Some owners of relatively small plots enclosed by walls or fences have suddenly found that their holdings have been classified as open land. In the Peak District north of the British Midlands and centered on the county of Derbyshire, one farmer found a loophole in the new law that would prevent cultivated land from being opened to the public. So he started plowing up open moorland on his farm before the police moved in to stop him.
The main worry among landowners, said Ben Thomas, who has advised the Country Land and Business Association on issues relating to access to its members' land, is that the new laws offer no compensation for financial losses -- such as broken fencing or damage to nesting flocks of grouse and other game birds, which are expensive to raise for the benefit of hunters. "A lot of money changes hand to shoot on these moors," Mr. Thomas said, and, he added, owners do not relish the idea of dogs or ramblers upsetting bird flocks, or even being on their property. Landowners are lobbying for recognition of these issues and some sort of compromise in the law, but so far the problems are unresolved.
"There are some landowners who are just completely altruistic and do allow access to their land," Mr. Thomas said. "And there are others who just feel that they own the land and it's their right exclusively to enjoy its use." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL TRESPASS (90%); LEGISLATION (87%); HIKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); RIOTS (76%); SPORT HUNTING (76%); LOBBYING (72%); ARRESTS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (68%); FOLKLORE (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (62%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (50%) WALKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (78%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (57%) ENGLAND (94%); WALES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (57%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



126 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Milford, Conn.; 
Long Shoreline and a Wealth of Activities

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
WHEN evaluating a piece of residential property, location is immeasurably enhanced by a view of water. A brook, pond, river or mighty ocean can seem to be worth its gallonage in gold. 
 Not so in Milford. Shoreline properties here are still sold at surprisingly low prices. 
 One of Connecticut's oldest communities, founded in 1639 with the purchase of land from the Paugussett Indians, it has managed to hold onto a residential waterfront of about 1,000 houses strung along its 14-mile frontage on Long Island Sound -- the longest in the state, edged with 13 beaches interrupted by a few marinas and a yacht club. 
Developed as summer cottages on 30- and 40-foot-wide lots, the little "needs work" bungalows can sell for under $200,000, although a large house atop a knoll with a water view is on the market for $1.25 million, according to James Porto of Coldwell Banker. "Maybe 12 homes are available" on the shoreline, he said.
Gail Benedetto of Re/Max Realty noted, "New Yorkers are grabbing the cottages, knocking them down and building up and back for summer rentals and year-round use." They must comply with current 10-foot setback regulations, and some houses must be elevated because of flooding.
Interest in this westernmost city of New Haven County is strong -- more than 2,300 people have moved in over the past four years -- and seems to be coming primarily from home seekers outpriced in neighboring Fairfield County. "Most buyers can find what they want here from $250,000 to $475,000," said Susan DuBrow of Prudential Connecticut Realty. 
There are saltboxes, colonials and Victorians from the 17th through the 20th centuries, mixed with ranches and split levels from the 1950's and 60's. Condominiums are available at the beaches and in the downtown area over smart new ground-floor office and retail developments. New construction, often accomplished by tearing down older homes, accounted for 191 permits last year and is under way unabated. Of some 20,000 dwellings, about 575 are for sale.
Within the Historic District along the Wepewaug River, there are 65 architecturally significant homes, and in the north, zoned for minimum one-acre lots, a more back-country atmosphere prevails, but "much lower priced than Fairfield County and more middle class," Ms. DuBrow said. "You won't find many au pairs."
Jack Fowler, a member of Milford's Board of Aldermen and associate publisher of National Review, moved to Milford in 1993. "I'm from the Bronx originally," he said. "We used to rent a place here when I was a kid. When I was offered this job, I instinctively looked here because of emotional ties, and with three kids -- we now have five -- it was the practical thing to do. Fairfield County was prohibitive, and raising a family in New York on one income was unrealistic."
Genevieve Salvatore, a lawyer with the firm of Peckar & Abramson, and her husband, Stephen, a manager for a large construction company, both commute to work in Manhattan five days a week. They will move to Milford this month, after renting in Westport. "Money goes a lot further in Milford," Mrs. Salvatore said. For under $450,000 they have a brand new 2,900 square foot, four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath house. "For the same price, Westport had a three-bedroom, one-bath ranch," she said. "The house we were renting is for sale at $410,000, and I wouldn't buy it. Besides, the people here are more like us. They work hard, like to have fun and are not concerned about status."
Fun is not hard to come by. Unlike some shoreline communities, Milford offers free admission to nonresidents at five of its beaches and welcomes thousands of outsiders to annual events like the Oyster Festival, which draws 50,000 people; the Halloween parade; the Christmas Festival of Lights and carol sing on the third-of-a-mile-long town green; and the Great American Sand Sculpture Competition, held each summer at Silver Sands State Park by the Milford Fine Arts Council.
The council, housed in the 1881 railroad station, also runs a series of concerts, live theater, juried art exhibitions and the New England Arts and Crafts Festival, held on the green in July. 
The southeasternmost tip of town is the site of the Wheeler Wildlife Area and Milford Point Connecticut Audubon Center. At the latter, osprey watchers can observe the birds on their elevated nesting platforms in the marsh, and people of all ages sign up for extensive nature programs. 
THE city also offers dozens of activities, some free and others ranging in cost from $3.50 an hour to $75 for 11-week programs. There are 12 tennis courts, plus badminton, yoga, Little League, Babe Ruth League, adult baseball and soccer, archaeology and ecology camps, dancercise, painting, music, chess, wine tasting, fishing derbys, summer concerts alfresco, two pools, lobster bakes, kayak races and so on.
Spencer's Marina, one of four private marinas, and the Milford Yacht Club will observe their 100th birthdays in 2003. Spencer's charges $500 to $4,000 a season for one of its 160 slips and accommodates transients. The 400-member Milford Yacht Club's season extends from St. Patrick's Day to its annual New Year's Eve bash. Slips at Milford Landing, the city marina, cost $2 a foot per day and overnight, plus $5 to $7.50 for electrical service, or $10 an hour with a four-hour maximum. 
For Milford, becoming an alternative to Fairfield County has produced some problems. "Now we have a waiting list of 400 to 500 people for parking spaces at the station," said Robert Gregory, Milford's community development director. Indeed, Connecticut Department of Transportation figures show that 1,154 people commute daily from Milford to Manhattan Monday through Friday, not to mention the 40 percent of Milford's population that works in Fairfield County, many of whom take the train. Nor is there any shortage of in-town business. "You can sit in traffic through three lights," Ms. DuBrow said.
Companies like Wright Investor Services and Warnaco have been moving into town from Fairfield, Mr. Gregory said, adding to Milford's existing 2,000 businesses. The larger ones include Bic, Schick, Subway's world headquarters, Wilkinson Sword, Pfizer, and Milford Hospital. Among 15 hotels are a Marriott Springhill Suites, Fairfield Inn, Hampton Inn, Howard Johnson, Red Roof and Rainbow Gardens Inn, a Victorian bed and breakfast and restaurant.
Milfordites are never far from shopping, with half a dozen neighborhood strip centers scattered through town, a cluster of upscale downtown specialty stores and the 1.1-million-square-foot Westfield Shoppingtown Connecticut Post Mall. Next spring an expansion of 400,000 square feet will add Macy's and several small stores to Filene's, Sears, J. C. Penney's and 146 existing shops at Westfield. 
Milford's upward trend in housing prices has been led by two back-country subdivisions. Lexington Green opened in 1994 with 334 homes sold out, mostly to young executive families. A few of the six models of 1,500 square feet to 3,100 square feet with three or four bedrooms and one- to three-car garages are available as resales for $270,000 to $425,000.
Straddling the Milford-Orange border, Great River Estates opened two years ago with 155 home sites, 17 of them in Orange. Priced about $450,000 to $700,000, the houses measure 2,700 square feet to 3,400 square feet on a half-acre or an acre. Fifty are still available. 
Before 1990, when Dr. Mary Jo Kramer became superintendent of the public schools, there were 12 schools for kindergarten through eighth grade and one high school, and test scores that needed improvement. The schools were reorganized for better interaction between teachers and students on a ratio of 14 to 19 pupils per teacher and renovated to produce nine elementary schools with full-day kindergarten and three middle schools. In addition, a second high school was built. 
Harborside Middle School received a Blue Ribbon for Excellence Award from the United States Department of Education in 2000, and last year the Milford schools were among three systems to receive the National School Board Association's Leadership in Technology Award. 
BUT College Board scores were only 470 math and 502 verbal, below the statewide averages of 510 and 509. Dr. Kramer noted that the district's students did relatively better on state achievement tests than on the College Board tests. "I believe the objectives of our state tests, focusing on writing, comprehension, problem solving, thinking skills and data collection are more aligned to our objectives than the S.A.T.'s, which are somewhat a reflection of family income," she said. 
She has promoted the development of a strong arts program because, she said, "artistic expression is a part of our intelligence, more than a talent or a gift." She added, "It's our job to find the whole array of intelligences, including technology, that children have within them, and nurture them." In the fall Dr. Kramer will will become superintendent of the public schools in Darien.
Five of Milford's eight private schools are Roman Catholic, including 97-year-old Lauralton Hall, Connecticut's oldest private high school for girls, where 20 percent of the 435 students are non-Catholic. Tuition is $8,700. 
There are more than 20 churches of different denominations in the town, and Jewish houses of worship are nearby in Orange and Woodbridge.
Great River golf course, a $25 million public 18-hole course within the Great River Estates development was designed by Tommy Fazio and rated among the 10 "best new upscale public courses of 2001" by Golf Digest. The course's 30,000-square-foot clubhouse has a pro shop, indoor golf school, restaurant and 200-seat banquet room. Play costs $125 on weekdays and $150 on weekends. A limited number of annual memberships cost $10,000 for individuals and $50,000 for corporations.
Economy-minded golfers can use the Orchards, the city's nine-hole course, with greens fees of $8.85 weekdays for residents, $13.40 for nonresidents and a dollar more for each on weekends.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Homes on Governors Avenue, top; the Milford green, above; the Milford Boat Works, right, part of the community's 14-mile frontage on Long Island Sound.; 2-bedroom, 1-bath bungalow near Silver Sands Beach at 7 Silver Street, $129,900.; 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath colonial on 1.3 acres at 945 Wheeler Farms Road, $359,900.; 4-bedroom, 3-bath riverfront house at 97 Housatonic Drive, $750,000. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times) Chart: "GAZETTEER" POPULATION: 52,305 (2000 census).AREA: 24.7 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $72,000.MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: $343,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN-PRICED HOUSE: $6,449.MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $297,500.MEDIAN PRICE THREE YEARS AGO: $208,000.MEDIAN PRICE ON A TWO-BEDROOM CONDO: $137,950.TAXES ON MEDIAN CONDO: $2,500.MIDRANGE RENT ON TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $856.PUBLIC SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $9,323.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 67 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: One hour, 30 minutes on Metro-North New Haven line; $13.25 one way, $283 monthly.GOVERNMENT: Mayor (James J. Richetelli Jr., Republican) and 15-member Board of Aldermen from five districts, each with one minority-party member.CODES: Area, 203; ZIP, 06460.INTRUDERS FROM THE SEA: During the Revolutionary War, the British pretty much controlled Long Island Sound, according to Richard Platt, the town historian, whose family has lived in Milford since it was founded in 1639. They sailed up and down the coast, raiding communities at will. One day in August 1777, the Swan, a 14-gun sloop, appeared in Milford Harbor, dispatching some men to appropriate cattle. Mistress Miles Merwin spotted them, put her baby into the horse-drawn cart and rode into town, alerting the local militia by banging on a pot with a spoon. Surprised by the number of militiamen who responded, the British grabbed one sheep and a pig and fled, but not before pouring molasses on the Merwins' feather bed. Map of Connecticut highlighting Milford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (89%); CITY LIFE (86%); CITIES (86%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TRENDS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HOUSING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: RE/MAX INTERNATIONAL INC (69%); PRUDENTIAL CONNECTICUT REALTY (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (69%); NAICS531320 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS (69%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (69%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (69%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (69%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) MILFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



127 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Film; 
Unseen Yet Seen, A World Of Evil

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER; Larry Rohter is chief of the Rio de Janeiro bureau of The New York Times.

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES 

 BODY:
FROM the moment it was first shown in theaters here, "Nine Queens," a modest caper film by Fabian Bielinsky, was a commercial and critical success. But one scene so unnverved Argentine audiences that the film has become a cultural phenomenon, dissected and analyzed countless times in newspapers and on radio and television.
 In the scene, a small-time scam artist named Marcos introduces his wide-eyed apprentice, Juan, to an alternate reality, one hidden away in plain sight as they stand on a busy downtown corner. Where Juan sees only a crowd rushing about, Marcos recognizes a universe of con men, car thieves, pickpockets, purse snatchers and other petty crooks, all just waiting for a chance to pounce. 
 "They are there, but you can't see them," the cynical Marcos (Ricardo Darin) advises the younger, seemingly naive Juan (Gaston Pauls). "That's what it's all about: they are there, but they are not there. So mind your briefcase, your windows, your car, your savings." 
Over lunch here, Mr. Bielinsky, who wrote and directed the film, recalled with a grin: "Audiences went into the theater without a care in the world and came out looking over their shoulders and with suspicious looks on their faces. It showed them an invisible world they were not aware of but which is all around us, perhaps as close as that guy at the next table."
With "Nine Queens," which opens in New York on April 19, Mr. Bielinsky has engaged in a similar process of deception. On the surface, his film is a crime yarn, portraying 30 hours in the lives of a pair of swindlers who stumble onto the deal of a lifetime: selling a forged set of rare Weimar Republic stamps known as "the Nine Queens" for nearly $500,000.
Yet "Nine Queens" has a subtext that has encouraged Argentines to see it as an allegory for the entire get-rich-quick mentality that prevailed here during the decade from 1989 to 1999, when Carlos Saul Menem was president. Those years of "pizza and champagne" are now over, but they left a legacy of spiritual and material impoverishment that Mr. Bielinsky found hard to ignore.
"The idea of sudden wealth has always been incorporated into the psychology of the Argentine, but during the 1990's it reached obscene levels and reached into the highest spheres of politics and government," he said. "We were forced to be witnesses to impunity and corruption, indifference to the common welfare and absolute frivolity, so of course a movie like 'Nine Queens' reflects that state of affairs."
After the disintegration of the Argentine economy in December, in fact, "Nine Queens" seems almost prophetic. But the underlying idea for the movie, Mr. Bielinsky said, "emerged from my own fascination with the psychology of crime." Researching the subject, he not only read newspaper articles and interviewed police officers, but also watched American movies about con artists, like "Paper Moon" and "The Sting," and the films of Alfred Hitchcock.
"To my surprise, though, my principal source of information turned out to be people who had been victimized themselves by scam artists," he said. "Friends, relatives, friends of friends, all of them had stories to tell me about being ripped off themselves or knowing someone who was. As a result, every one of the scams you see in the movie is taken from real life, with the exception of the Nine Queens, which I invented myself."
Mr. Bielinsky finished the script in 1997 and then tried for more than a year to sell it. "Producers just didn't get it," he said. "The film industry here doesn't go in much for genre pictures. They're good with dramas, or small intimate pictures about relationships, but tend to think of genre pieces as something prohibited for Argentina."
Mr. Bielinsky, 43, also had to battle what was seen as a lack of experience. Though he had written the screenplays for several feature films, directed short films based on stories by the Argentine writers Jorge Luis Borges and Julio Cortazar and worked as an assistant director on some 400 commercials and several full-length films, "Nine Queens" is his debut as a director.
IN 1998, however, he got his break when he entered the script in a contest and placed first among nearly 350 entries, thereby guaranteeing himself a production deal.
"Nine Queens" was shot with a budget of only $1.3 million, modest even by local standards. So Mr. Bielinsky made certain the cast had plenty of rehearsal time, to assure that no time would be wasted once filming got under way.
"Many of the scenes were filmed in the street, among pedestrians and daily life, almost as if we were carrying out a raid or pulling off a heist," Mr. Darin recalled. "We'd drive up somewhere, jump out of a van, shoot the scene and leave, which made us realize how good it was that we were already so well prepared."
Released in 2000, "Nine Queens" won just about every award for which it was eligible, from the Argentine Film Critics Association (best picture and six other prizes) and at the MTV Latin America People's Choice Awards. To Mr. Darin, that response confirmed the wisdom of Mr. Bielinsky's decision to focus on plot and character and leave any moral lessons implicit.
The cast, though, always knew that Mr. Bielinsky had a larger point to make. "When people ask me how I prepared for my role, I like to tell them that I studied Argentine politicians, who are capable of telling the most bold-faced lies with a straight face," Mr. Pauls said. "My character does on a small scale what they do on a large scale: he's a small fish, and they are sharks."
Mr. Pauls also said "there is a lot of David Mamet in this movie." But Richard Pena, program director of the Film Society of Lincoln Center, which showed "Nine Queens" in its New Directors/New Films series last year, noted that for all its awareness and embrace of international influences, the movie retains a distinctly Argentine sensibility.
" 'Nine Queens' is an excellent cinematic example of a certain River Plate tradition of paranoid narratives, of which Borges is just one example," he said. "A society looks normal on the surface but is run by corrupt secret societies and secret deals, with a conspiratorial atmosphere that leads you to ask who is real and who is just playing a role."
During the filming, the relationship between Mr. Darin, 45, and Mr. Pauls, 30, echoed the master-and-disciple bond between their characters. Though Mr. Pauls comes from a family of filmmakers, he has been an actor for only eight years and often looked to Mr. Darin for guidance.
"Darin has a real showboat role with great speeches but is able to be both hard and elicit pathos at the same time," Mr. Pena said, "while Pauls has to be very subtle, to transmit a sense of quiet power and to show that he is not just a dupe, that there is something going on behind those very innocent eyes."
Mr. Darin also appears in the sentimental "Son of the Bride," nominated this year for the Academy Award for best foreign language film, in the role of a harried, middle-aged restaurant owner forced to reassess his life after a heart attack. 
For his part, Mr. Bielensky has received proposals to remake "Nine Queens" in countries as diverse as the United States, France, Germany, England and Spain. He will probably sell the rights, he said, but made it clear that he does not want to get involved with any remakes himself.
"From the moment they called me to tell me, 'You've won the contest, we're going to make your movie,' I've had nothing but one stroke of good luck after another on this project," he said. "I'm still overwhelmed because everything has been ideal. But if I did it over again, it would be like standing in the same place. I hate to abandon this feeling of complete happiness and start something new, but I'm afraid that it's time to move on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ricardo Darin, left, and Gaston Pauls in Fabian Bielinsky's film "Nine Queens," which opens in New York on April 19. (Silvio Benitez/Sony Pictures Classics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); CORRUPTION (76%); VEHICLE THEFT (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); POLITICS (60%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: BIELINSKY, FABIAN; ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) ARGENTINA (91%); UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: NINE QUEENS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



128 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY; 
Three Seasons Will Do Just Fine

BYLINE:  By NEIL GENZLINGER 

 BODY:
THIS being April, it now seems safe to draw the following meteorological conclusion: 
 We had, essentially, no winter. 
 And from that conclusion we can extrapolate the following consensus: 
Good!
Sure, there are global-warming crybabies and a maybe few skiers who actually lament the lack of winter this year. And admittedly if this kind of thing were to continue there might be some adverse consequences, like the melting icecaps would cause the Atlantic to rise, and everything from Long Branch to Freehold would be underwater. 
But that's a sacrifice I think most of us are willing to make, because frankly, winter as it used to be was a poor idea, a miserable season full of fender benders and frostbite and avalanches. 
Anyone who doubts it is invited to recall the second week of January 1996, when we were buried up to our bellybuttons by one of the worst snowstorms of the century. I use the term "we" somewhat loosely since I actually got trapped at work in New York and was forced to spend two nights in the Midtown Marriott while the wife and daughter and every other New Jerseyan dug out. But even from that distance, I could feel your pain. 
Who wants to go through that kind of hardship again? Yet I'm not one to endorse radical alteration of the climate cavalierly. So I've consulted some actual experts on what it would mean for life in New Jersey if every winter were like the one just gone by. And there's good news: if it never snowed here again, we'd all feel a lot sexier.
"There really is something called spring fever, and we probably would see a good deal more of that," said Helen Fisher, an anthropologist at Rutgers University who has explored the primal side of our 21st-century selves in books like "The Sex Contract: The Evolution of Human Behavior."
Our ancestors, if what the scientists say is true, morphed into humanness in warm parts of the world, deeply attuned to nature's rhythms. That wiring, Ms. Fisher said, is still there, buried under millenniums of civilization and its hangups. 
"We evolved in a tropical climate where the smells of plants and flowers were all around us," she said. "We spent a lot of time in the trees with a lot of sunlight and no clothes."
Replace the old-style winter with an extended autumn and we would edge back toward our true tropical selves, pulsating with warm-weather urges. The state would be alive with the types of mating rituals normally seen only in movies aimed at teenagers.
"We would see more parading for longer periods of time, and more of the sensuousness that comes from parading," Ms. Fisher said.
Who doesn't love a parade? We might also feel more generally alert, she said, because with warmer weather we'd spend more time outside in the winter months and thus get more exposure to sun, a proven energizer. 
Fred Kelly, dean of the School of Business Administration at Monmouth University, sounded as if he would be one of those leading the charge into the outdoors if we lost winter as we've known it.
"I wouldn't put my golf clubs away nearly as early as I did," he said. 
Knowing that owners of ski areas and snowplowing services would whine if my proposal to abolish winter were to become law, I asked Mr. Kelly for an economic assessment. Yes, he said, there would be disruption, but there would also be new possibilities.
"Part of the concept of the free enterprise system is that as these changes occur, people step up to see them as opportunities," he said. So resorts would alter their sales tactics, clothiers would change the types of goods they make and sell and some entrepreneur might even come up with an indoor ski slope.
What little agriculture we have left would also be affected, Mr. Kelly said -- badly if the future nonwinters were like the one that just ended, but perhaps for the better if it started raining regularly again, since the growing season would be extended. (And I want to here point out that I'm not advocating a moistureless winter, just a snowless one. It could rain from time to time, preferably at night.)
The bottom line economically? "It's an ill wind that doesn't benefit somebody," Mr. Kelly said.
So there you have it: more golf, fewer clothes. What's not to like? Yeah, there would probably be a few thousand environmental consequences if we went winterless, like the Pinelands would become the Scrub Maple-lands. But, as previously noted, most of the Pinelands would be underwater anyway, so we'd hardly notice.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METEOROLOGY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); WEATHER (78%); AVALANCHES (77%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); SKIING (73%); YOUTH MARKET (67%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%) SEASONS AND MONTHS 

PERSON: GENZLINGER, NEIL; FISHER, HELEN (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



129 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Brownfields Luring Builders With Good Locations

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
BROWNFIELDS. The name is not pretty, and neither, usually, is the kind of property it describes: previously developed land in need of environmental cleanup.
 But brownfields in New Jersey are becoming desirable again, developers say. As the supply of virgin land shrinks, brownfields are attracting builders because many are in excellent locations. 
 "If a site is well situated, with transportation access, it can always make a comeback," said Tom Barrett, president of Barrett Builders, citing as examples the Raritan Center shopping mall, once the site of a military arsenal, and Jersey Gardens outlet mall in Elizabeth, built on a former landfill. 
Currently, brownfield properties near the ports at Elizabeth and Newark are getting heavy attention from developers. Dredging to 50-foot depths to accommodate huge container-carrying ships is set to begin this spring at the ports, and import business is expected to double in the next decade. That means the need for warehouse/distribution space will mushroom.
"There are properties in play in places like Elizabeth, Linden, Cartaret and Newark," said Robert L. Sager, Insignia/ESG's managing director of its industrial services group, "that nobody would even have thought about five years ago. "The focus is on the brownfields now, because there's not much else to focus on."
Those seeking to expand port industrial operations will have to compete for space with other development interests. The city of Elizabeth, for example, is making a concerted effort to transform a 177-acre site at the southern end of Ports Newark and Elizabeth that had been used for heavy manufacturing and distribution into a mixed-use hotel, retail and high-technology center. The property is being marketed as a "vibrant" locale with "prime intermodal transport access."
State transportation officials are considering installing a toll road for truckers between the ports at Newark and Jersey City, as well as the addition of a freight rail stop. A ferry stop is also planned for shipment transfers to New York City. There is already easy access to Newark Airport, interstate highways, and passenger light rail in the port region. 
"Especially in northern New Jersey, especially near the ports, revitalization of brownfield properties has become a must for developers," Mr. Barrett said. "We now have to accept brownfields as a key part of the development process."
Years ago, Mr. Barrett said, a site designated as contaminated carried "the kiss of death" for developers. "Builders wouldn't touch the property," he recalled, "and lenders would run for the hills." 
In 1976, New Jersey became the first state in the country to start a contaminated site cleanup program, pioneering on very difficult terrain, Mr. Barrett said. "Everybody was a novice," he said, "and trying to figure out what would work, and how to do it, and how much it should reasonably cost."
It wasn't until four years later, in 1980, that the federal Superfund Act was put in place, establishing basic standards and practices.
Then, in 1983, New Jersey passed its own Environmental Cleanup Responsibility Act and Bureau of Underground Storage Tanks Act Just after those laws took effect, Barrett Builders was faced with having to excavate fuel tanks and contaminated soil at a truck distribution site it operated in Carlstadt. "It was unbelievably difficult," Mr. Barrett said, "trying to make our way through the maze of regulations and get the job done right." 
In 1993, New Jersey put into place a new law, the Industrial Site Recovery Act, which set standards for permissible levels of contamination in groundwater and soil, and for proper site testing, investigation and work plans. 
IMMEDIATELY after the Industrial Site Recover Act went into effect, Barrett Builders faced its first "site remediation" job, at Greenville Yards in Jersey City, where about a fifth of the total land has been identified as known or potential brownfields. Greenville Yards is a former Conrail and Penn Central rail yard, and lies near Global Marine port, in the heart of Jersey City's industrial area. 
Preparing the site for redevelopment meant removing or treating contaminated material, capping it with two feet of certified clean soil, and digging wells that would tap into groundwater for continued required testing, Mr. Barrett explained. 
It also meant dealing with a general stigma against contaminated property, and pervasive fear and uncertainty about whether it could successfully be decontaminated.
"Today," he said, "contamination is no longer a dirty word. The challenge today is how to accomplish site reclamation in a way that meets the complex federal and state requirements, boosts the local economy, improves the environment and still provides a profitable opportunity for a developer."
One plus factor is increasing government support for reclamation efforts, Mr. Barrett and other developers said. Gov. James E. McGreevey has positioned state government firmly in support of redevelopment over new development and state regulators are studying proposals for streamlining site approvals. Under the previous administration led by former Gov. Christie Whitman, state officials moved to widen and extend highway interchanges at New Jersey Turnpike Exit 13A to help the development of Jersey Gardens and adjacent businesses, including an Ikea furniture store and the Rex Plex sports entertainment center.
The local government in Elizabeth also worked to provide financial incentives for 13A redevelopment. For instance, Elizabeth agreed in advance to allow the developers of Jersey Gardens to defer paying a portion of sales taxes on mall proceeds in order to finance site cleanup.
Several developers said these sorts of measures should be considered for redevelopment of Exit 12 in Cartaret, where large brownfields behind the Holiday Inn are being offered as warehouse/distribution sites. Formerly a tank storage area, it will require "major cleanup," Mr. Sager of Insignia said.
Although traffic is awful at Exit 12, he said, "It is, however within 10-mile radius of a port."
Mr. Sager added that, "Some of the smart money, the REIT's, are shifting focus away from Exit 8A and starting to look at properties closer to ports." 
Exit 8A further south has been the state's most popular industrial warehouse/industrial site for the last few years. With open land plentiful and no cleanup costs, rents are cheaper than in northern New Jersey. But Mr. Sager noted that for companies based in New York City, Exit 12 has significant advantages: Not only does it have port access, but it is also 25 miles closer to the city than is Exit 8A.
"Companies looking to save costs in logistics will pay higher rent," he said, "because it doesn't affect the company as much as operating cost." He cited the going rent in Secaucus, which averages more than $6 per square foot for 25-to-30 year-old buildings with ceilings no higher than 24 feet.
"There are a lot of companies from New York City who will pay that rent instead of $4.50 per square foot at 8A for newer, taller buildings that hold 20 to 40 percent more product in the same square footage," Mr. Sager said, "because a closer site makes distribution costs more attractive."
Mr. Barrett also spoke of personal satisfactions for developers involved in bringing back brownfield sites.
"I get a real kick out of bringing properties back into the active market," he said. "I don't know how it affects most people, looking at vacant land or decaying buildings year after year in a certain place. But it concerns me. I worry about my children, and if a contaminated place will still be there when they grow up and are driving by."
Mr. Barrett said that he realized that many properties were tied up for years in lawsuits against the original polluters or their descendants, and that he understood the need to seek justice. As a teenager, he said, he recalls driving a truck for his father's company in the summer and literally getting sick when he entered some chemical company sites.
"But a lawsuit doesn't stop leeching into the groundwater," he said. "It doesn't create jobs or change the landscape. It takes a developer to do that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Barrett at his Greenville Yards in Jersey City. Well-situated brownfields, he said, can make a comeback. (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (76%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (75%); FERRIES (74%); RETAILERS (70%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (68%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (62%); RAIL FREIGHT (61%); IMPORT TRADE (53%) HOUSING; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES 

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) JERSEY CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



130 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Westchester; 
White Plains Tries to Reverse Rise in Office Vacancies

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
WITH the economy struggling to rebound, job cuts continuing and vacancy rates on the rise in the central business district of White Plains, building owners and managers find themselves competing hard for available tenants.
 In the months ahead, brokers say, a combination of landlord savvy and luck will determine whether office buildings lose or gain tenants. 
 "The ability to make deals, to convince tenants that a building's location and amenities, among other things, are right for them will be critical," said Howard E. Greenberg, the owner of Howard Properties, a national tenant representation and consulting firm in White Plains. "But those aren't the only variables in the equation."
White Plains, which was slow to recover from the recession of the early 1990's, had a 30.2 percent vacancy rate in its central business district even in 1998, when the rate for the rest of Westchester County was 18 percent. Several corporations, including I.B.M., that had a large presence in the city restructured in the 1990's, leaving large blocs of empty office space. 
By the end of 2000, the vacancy rate for the city had dropped to 15.1 percent, according to figures from the Stamford, Conn., office of Insignia/ESG, the commercial real estate company. Much of the space was taken by smaller enterprises, including dot-coms. But the boom in White Plains was relatively short-lived. By the end of December the vacancy rate was 21.8 percent. 
"The real estate market was bad to begin with, and the events of 9/11 didn't help," said Al Gutierrez, a past president of the Building Owners and Managers Association of Westchester and a senior associate at the Stamford office of CB Richard Ellis, the commercial real estate services firm. The terrorist attacks caused a sharp slowdown in the economy, which was already in a recession.
At the end of February, the vacancy rate in the central business district was 22 percent; it was 14.8 percent in the county as a whole.
Dean J. Shapiro, executive director in Westchester and Fairfield Counties for Insignia/ESG, said some problems in White Plains reflected general trends in the economy, but many were specific to the city. 
"White Plains saw a dramatic increase in the amount of available space taken up in 2000, in large part because it attracted a disproportionate number of new-economy deals," Mr. Shapiro said, referring to the high technology companies and dot-coms. "The city cut its vacancy rate in half, and that's a huge accomplishment."
"But conversely," Mr. Shapiro added, "when the market slumped, there was an implosion in its market."
Brokers said the fortunes of four Class A office buildings reflected the commercial real estate market in White Plains.
One building, at 445 Hamilton Avenue, was formerly the home of Prodigy Services, the online company. 
The 320,688-square-foot building, owned by MetLife, is mostly empty, in large part, its managers said, because a rewiring and redesign of the 32-year-old structure took place too late to benefit from the uptick in the market several years ago.
The second building, at 44 South Broadway, once housed I.B.M. employees and now has large blocs of vacant space, as well as several tenants -- I.B.M., Oxford Health and Prodigy -- trying to sublease space they no longer need in the 26-year-old building. 
The 850,000-square-foot building, owned and managed by the Pepe family, of which Nick J. Pepe is the managing member, is the farthest of the four from the Metro-North Railroad station, putting it at a disadvantage.
A third building, at 360 Hamilton Avenue, was rewired and redesigned in 1999 by its owners, Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust in Melville, N.Y. I.B.M. moved out of the building in 1989, and the 380,000-square-foot building was seen as a relic from a time when corporations dominated the market. Now 23 years old, it is mostly occupied, although a tenant, Metromedia Fiber Network, is facing financial difficulty and has considered filing for bankruptcy protection. If it does file, it could opt out of its lease, leaving 20 percent of the building empty.
The fourth, the 525,175-square-foot Gateway Building at 1 North Lexington Avenue is 98 percent occupied, in part because of its proximity to the train station and the flexibility of its design. Built in 1984 and owned since 2000 by the Alaska Permanent Fund, the 18-story structure lost AT&T as a tenant in 1994 -- it had occupied two-thirds of the building -- and went into foreclosure. 
A T the end of the day, filling up a building and keeping it filled is all about fundamentals," said William V. Cuddy, a senior managing director for Insignia/ESG in Stamford, which is the leasing agent for 1 North Lexington. An example, Mr. Cuddy said, is the management's policy of diversifying its tenant base and not relying on a single sector of the economy. 
Also, the structure of the building allows the management some flexibility in configuring each of the 30,000-square-foot floors to accommodate a variety of tenants -- whether it be a company seeking "a bullpen-type operation" with many cubicles in a large open space or one in need of only 2,500 square feet in a traditional office. 
By contrast, the typical floor size at 44 South Broadway, which is also known as Westchester One, is 42,571 square feet, the largest in downtown White Plains and a limitation when it come to leasing. 
Because of the basic design, the building is not suited for tenants requiring small spaces, said Gregory V. Frisoli, associate director for Cushman & Wakefield, the building's leasing agent. Also, the 23-story building is about seven blocks from the train station, which sometimes is a deterrent to prospective tenants. There is a shuttle bus to and from the station.
Brokers said occupancy rates for the building would depend in large part on the management ability to negotiate leases for the 252,000 square feet of space that current tenants want to sublet. "We're working closely with I.B.M. and Prodigy and new tenants, and if we get the right one, we'll take back the current leases," said Mr. Pepe, the managing member, referring to new tenants willing to sign long-term contracts. There is also another 208,000 square feet of vacant and available space in Westchester One.
Mr. Shapiro at Insignia/ESG said Westchester One is "an extreme example reflecting the forces at work in the market," specifically buildings that were hurt when technology tenants downsized.
MetLife's building on Hamilton Avenue is often cited as an example of a structure that was not ready for the market when the market was ready for it. John R. McCarthy, president of McCarthy O'Callahan, the leasing agent for the building, said MetLife spent $2 million to upgrade the structure, which is about five blocks from the train station, but it did not do so fast enough to capitalize on the rush of the late 1990's. As a result, it has only three tenants who occupy 70,000 square feet, leaving 260,000 square feet available.
Diagonally across the street, 360 Hamilton Avenue is almost full, an example of the benefits of bringing a building to market at the right time -- if not in the best place; the 12-story building is about five blocks from the station. Mr. Greenberg of Howard Properties said the remodeling of 360 Hamilton, once considered an eyesore on a side street in the downtown, was "an example of making lemonade out of a lemon."
Salvatore Campofranco, managing director of Reckson's Westchester division, who helped revamp the old I.B.M. building, said a landlord's business savvy will not be the only variable affecting occupancy rates. 
In the coming months, he said, other economic forces will affect the commercial office market in the city. Specifically, Mr. Campofranco pointed to a $300 million movie, residential and retail development in downtown White Plains by the builder Louis Cappelli, which should benefit the city as a whole and the commercial office market in particular. That project, along with residential construction, is expected to create 1,600 residential units.
Mr. Cuddy at Insignia/ESG agreed that business savvy and forces outside a landlord's control would affect vacancy rates. 
"You always have to constantly benchmark yourself against your competition, but that's not everything," he said. "Sixteen hundred new residential units coming online has to leave us with a healthier White Plains. And that can't be anything but a plus for the office real estate market."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The building at 1 North Lexington Avenue, left, is 98 percent occupied, in part because of its proximity to the train station. Building at 445 Hamilton Avenue, right, is mostly empty. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) Map of New York State highlighting White Plains and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); TRENDS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



131 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: State's New N.A.A.C.P. Leader Turns Up the Volume 

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY B. COHEN 

 BODY:
QUIET and complacent. Stuck in old ways. Content to use honey, not vinegar.
 James (Jimmy) Lee Griffin, the recently elected president of the Connecticut state chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, is not likely to be described as such. Mr. Griffin said those qualities better describe his predecessors who served admirably but who are on their way out. He calls himself part of the "new guard." 
 "Let me put it like this: there's a different style," said Mr. Griffin, 58, also president of the N.A.A.C.P.'s Greater Waterbury branch. "I turn up the volume, I turn up the heat. The only way you can address civil rights issues is to be vocal." 
Mr. Griffin was born in South Carolina, reared from 9 months on in Waterbury, and is a one-time resident of Bridgeport, New York City and New Haven. He is a veteran, a graduate of Housatonic Community College, a former candidate for Waterbury mayor and the state legislature and now a community relations manager at New Opportunities for Waterbury Inc., where he has worked for 10 years.
His friends say Mr. Griffin remembers where he comes from. Equally important, he says, is not losing sight of where he wants to go. Recognizing that the N.A.A.C.P. is a private organization with a very public face, Mr. Griffin plans to keep that face in the spotlight. Because he can't run a protest organization without a little protest.
"There's been an age-old debate in the N.A.A.C.P. between the activists and the actual bureaucrats," said Scott X. Esdaile, the New Haven branch president. "Jimmy is on the side of the activists. He gets out in the streets and he gets involved. He's tangible."
And he is "more assertive and more aggressive" than his predecessors, Mr. Griffin said. "The law hasn't always been enforced, and the reason it hasn't been enforced is because no one has raised the issue. We're raising the issue."
By Mr. Griffin's account, "no one" includes Ben Andrews, a member of the national N.A.A.C.P. board who Mr. Griffin said got too comfortable during his 28 years as president of the state chapter. Mr. Andrews has been under indictment since October 2000 for racketeering in the corruption scandal of the former state treasurer, Paul Silvester. He did not return a call for comment.
In the October 2001 election, when Mr. Andrews supported the president at the time, Lisa Scails, for re-election and declared two votes of the first vote-count spoiled, he called for a second vote among the roughly 100 delegates to the state conference who vote for the state presidency. Ms. Scails won. So Mr. Griffin, a candidate in the election, filed a complaint with the organization and pressed for a revote, all the while making the issue known in the news media. Mr. Griffin won the revote in February. 
"One of the most effective tools you have at your disposal is the use of the public media because it gets your message out," Mr. Griffin said, adding that the only way he felt he could counter Mr. Andrews's national influence was by making the matter public.
But Mr. Griffin's style does not please everyone. "I feel that our N.A.A.C.P. problems should be internal and not public on everything," said Maxine Watts, former Waterbury branch president, adding that there was a "different feeling" when she was in office.
Ms. Watts said that she and Mr. Griffin agree on the issues and really differ only when it comes to Mr. Griffin's style. Whether he will produce results is still to be determined, Ms. Watts said. "I'm sure every branch right now is wondering how he is going to handle their local issues. Can they count on him to be there? Time will tell," she said.
For her part, Ms. Scails, the president Mr. Griffin unseated, is not sure. "I think it's just a bunch of words being thrown out there, and you can interpret it any which way," Ms. Scails said, adding that her 18-month tenure in office and that of her predecessor, Roger Vann, are not comparable to Mr. Andrews's long rule.
"He's apparently lumped us all together. Roger Vann was very assertive, and Mr. Andrews was, as well, up to a point."
Results, not words, are what matters, Ms. Scails said. "We'll see what happens; it's easy to say what you say," Ms. Scails said. "Of course, he has his own unique style, and hopefully it will work for him and the organization."
Other members are quicker to endorse Mr. Griffin and welcome his style of getting his message out in the news media. 
"I think it's healthy at times," said Cicero Booker, a retired Waterbury police officer and Griffin-supporter. "And this election process was healthy, because the major brass had to take focus." Mr. Booker said the issue was made public, which the organization "didn't want, and it made them do what they were supposed to do."
And to those who would ask Mr. Griffin to tone it down? "When you get the person that says, 'tone it down,' that person is controlled by someone, they are looking for self gain," Mr. Booker said. "It doesn't work. Jimmy is his own man." 
Mr. Booker added that Mr. Griffin "won't sell himself down the river to get support from the major political parties. Jimmy has the nerve to take the unpleasant issue and go with it, smile, and enjoy the negative flak." 
Because negative flak, Mr. Booker said, can bring positive results. Now, municipal officials often come to Mr. Griffin instead of waiting for him to come to them, the new president said. When, for example, a Waterbury police officer recently shot and killed David Chipwata, who was black, the police called Mr. Griffin to explain the police department's understanding of the events, he said. 
"Because they know that Jimmy Griffin, O.K., doesn't like injustice," Mr. Griffin said. "And if there's injustice, I'm going to speak out. And they know that."
Hector Riollano, president of the Hispanic Democratic Club of Waterbury agrees. "Now people want to know, 'What does Jimmy Griffin have to say about it?' " Mr. Riollano said. "Because he is outspoken, people think twice. And if he thinks he's right, he goes all the way."
Naturally, Mr. Griffin thinks he has been right on several Waterbury issues, from the still unsuccessful alderman-by-district battle to city charter revision to public education. When the Waterbury Republican-American ran a two-part series on unfair teacher hiring practices and the lack of minority teachers in April 1999, Mr. Griffin called for a state investigation, which he got.
But he is also a realist. "There is a lack of black teachers," he said, weighing in on the side of programs that encourage teaching as a career. "So on the flip side of that, even if we were to have 100 openings, can we fill them?"
In addition to education, Mr. Griffin will advocate for economic development and political empowerment, he said. He is also pushing an enrollment drive to double his state membership numbers within a year. Currently, he estimates membership to be at about 4,000. But don't mistake his message, he said.
"The misconception is that we're only concerned with our own upward mobility," Mr. Griffin said. "But we're dealing with the equalization of rights across the board, and everyone benefits from that."
Yet to be seen is how well Mr. Griffin will be able to incorporate the entire state membership in his plans, even those left alienated by his victory. But if the election of his slate of officers and committee people is a sign, Mr. Griffin is on the road to reconciliation. All 22 of his nominations were approved by the organization's executive board in early March, a body controlled in large part by the old guard Mr. Griffin unseated.
"We don't have to reinvent the wheel on any of these issues; the issues are there," Mr. Griffin said. "You just have to be the leader necessary to bring the organization forward. If you have to be low-key, then you're low-key. If you have to be outspoken, then you're outspoken. But I think we're going to be more outspoken than low-key."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Lee Griffin, the new president of the state chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., says he is part of the "new guard." (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (67%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (50%); SCANDALS (50%) BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%) NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE 

PERSON: GRIFFIN, JAMES LEE; COHEN, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



132 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Applications Soar at Universities 

BYLINE:  By LINDA F. BURGHARDT 

 BODY:
DESPITE tighter visa and travel restrictions, foreign students have been applying to Long Island's 17 four-year colleges and universities in unprecedented numbers. 
 "We've seen a 33 percent increase in foreign applicants so far this spring, compared to a 6 percent rise for the university overall," said Gary Bergman, the associate provost for enrollment services at the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University in Brookville. 
 At Adelphi University in Garden City, applications from foreign students have risen 15 percent, and Della Hudson Tomlin, the assistant dean of student affairs, said that when all applications are in, she expected them to match or exceed the 31 percent increase recorded last year. 
Elizabeth Barnum, the assistant dean for international services at the State University at Stony Brook, cited a 22 percent jump. "An economics professor here, Egon Neuberger, puts it best when he says our reputation goes up by the square of the student's distance from campus," she said. "We may not be all that well known in Hempstead, but they love us in Beijing." 
What's fueling the increase? Daan Spoestra, a senior at Hofstra who grew up near Amsterdam, hopes to work for an American bank after graduation. Jennifer Onwochei, a sophomore at Adelphi from Delta, Nigeria, plans to become a physician. Basek Ersen, a graduate student at C. W. Post from Istanbul, wants to be a political-science professor. Felipe Barbosa, a senior at Hofstra from Rio de Janiero, plans to make movies. While each has a different goal, they all say they believe an American education is a first-class ticket to success.
Some students may be disappointed. Allan Goodman, the president of the Institute of International Education in Manhattan, said that in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, the federal government is taking a harder look at foreign students in an attempt to rout out terrorists. The man identified as the pilot of the plane that crashed into the Pentagon had entered the United States on a student visa. 
"There's a real worry about whether they will be granted visas," he explained. "Once schools send out the visa authorization forms, kids will start lining up at the U.S. embassies, and then we'll know how high the visa rejection rates will be and how long they'll make the kids wait. Will they give up and go to a school in Australia instead of coming here? These are all the unknowns we have to grapple with."
Mr. Goodman, a former dean of the School of Foreign Affairs at Georgetown University, added: "It used to take no longer than three weeks to get a visa. Now we expect it will take six to 10 weeks." 
Mr. Barbosa, the film student at Hofstra, in Hempstead, said foreign students should not be daunted by the obstacles. "No matter how long it takes, it's worth the wait to go to school here," he said. "Where else can you get resources like the libraries, computer centers and art studios the U.S. schools have?"
Mr. Spoestra, the Dutch student at Hofstra, agreed. "I believe studying at an American college will make me more attractive to big corporations when I go looking for a job," he said. "It opens up more options."
For many students, Long Island is the ideal location. "I wanted a school that was close to New York City but without all the hustle and bustle," said Anya Smith, a graduate student in hospital administration at C. W. Post. "It's not as laid-back as my hometown in the Bahamas, but the facilities are much larger than anything we have there, so I can learn more and take those experiences back with me to get a better job."
Uchechukwu Obianyo-agu, a sophomore at Adelphi from Lagos, Nigeria, believes that an American university can provide valuable contacts and an up-to-the-minute curriculum. "Computer science is a field that changes all the time," she said. "Going to school here, I get to meet people working in the area, and I get to learn what's new as soon as it happens. That'll help qualify me for work when I graduate."
For Mr. Spoestra, what he learns about the United States is as important as what he learns in class. "To get a job in an American bank, I have to know everything I can about American culture," he said. "Like when kids say, 'Hey, how are you? What's up?' they don't expect a long-winded reply. I didn't know that at first, but I do now."
Last year, the 550,000 foreign students in the United States constituted 3.9 percent of the total college enrollment, up from 2.8 percent 10 years ago, according to the Institute of International Education, a nonprofit group that administers the Fulbright scholars and other foreign-exchange programs. On Long Island, there were about 4,000 foreign students, or 4.7 percent of the total student population of 86,000. Stony Brook, the largest of the Island's universities, also has the largest number of foreign students, about 10 percent of its 18,000 students. 
During the 2000-2001 academic year in the United States, New York University had the largest number of foreign students (5,399), followed by the University of Southern California, Columbia, Boston University and Purdue. 
The top three countries of origin for foreign students were China, India and Japan. The institute says that almost half of the foreign undergraduates concentrate their studies in four fields: business and management, engineering, math and computer science. 
Although no national figures are yet available on applications from foreign students for the next academic year, John Beckman, an N.Y.U. spokesman, said that applications there were running about the same as last year.
Foreign students are not eligible for state or federal financial aid, of course, but they are eligible for scholarships from private sources. "International students here who are qualified are eligible to receive the same merit scholarships as domestic students," said Rory Shaffer, the admissions director at Adelphi.
But at C. W. Post, Mr. Bergman pointed out that the scholarship issue was often more complex than it might first seem. "At our school academic scholarships are available to foreign students the same as they are to domestic students," he said, "but they rarely get them. That's because eligibility is based on a combination of academic average and SAT, G.R.E. or G.M.A.T. scores, and few international students take these standardized tests."
But financial support sometimes comes from unorthodox sources. "I was lucky to obtain a tuition boost at Post by winning a monetary award from my department for academic excellence," Ms. Smith said. And at Hofstra, Mr. Barbosa has a United Nations scholarship.
Nationally, 67 percent of foreign students (or their families) pay for their schooling, 20 percent receive aid from their colleges, 9 percent from private sponsors or international organizations, and 4 percent from their home governments, according to the Institute of International Education.
While financial aid can be a stumbling block for some foreign students, an even larger problem since Sept. 11 is obtaining a visa. "There are extra security clearance requirements for everyone, particularly males between 16 and 45 from Middle Eastern countries," said Brian Buccinna, the admissions officer for international students at Stony Brook. "Now when we admit kids, we won't know for sure they'll be allowed to come."
Applicants are now asked what countries they have visited in the last 10 years and if they have "any specialized skills or training, including firearms, explosives, nuclear, biological or chemical experience." 
Mr. Bergman of C. W. Post explained how the process works: "When we accept a student, we send a form that allows him or her to apply for a visa. Say the student gets the visa, buys a ticket and boards a flight to Kennedy but never shows up at school. What are we to do? A year ago, we might not have noticed right away. Now we pay strict attention and notify the Immigration and Naturalization Service at once. It's their job to find the kid, but believe me, it's a problem for them to know where to look."
Sometimes, students face problems from their own governments. At the State University College at Old Westbury, Mary Marquez Bell, the vice president for enrollment services, said: "Students who came to us for the spring semester certainly had a harder time getting here because some governments simply suspended granting exit visas. We are alerting our incoming fall students to get their paperwork done early, in case the delays get even worse."
Several African nations, Ms. Marquez Bell said, have become reluctant to let students leave out of fear that they will never return to their homelands. At Old Westbury, the number of foreign students has tripled in the last three years: there are now 51, or about 2 percent, out of a total of 3,000. 
Ms. Marquez Bell warns students who go back home for vacations to take sufficient documentation with them to ensure that they can get back to the university. "We tell them to always have proof that their tuition bills are paid and to carry a transcript and a school calendar when they travel," she said. "Everyone is looking at students more closely now, tracking them more rigorously. We don't want the kids to have any trouble."
While colleges welcome international students, both for the income and diversity they bring, some schools have cut back on their recruiting since Sept. 11. "We still go to Latin America and Asia to tell students about opportunities at Hofstra," Mr. Haynes said, "but we no longer recruit in the Middle East. It's too politically sensitive and, frankly, too dangerous." Of Hofstra's 13,400 students, 350 or 2.6 percent are foreigners. 
Although Stony Brook has the largest international enrollment on Long Island, admissions officers there do virtually no recruiting, Ms. Barnum said. "Many of our faculty are engaged in international research, and this draws students to us from overseas," she said. "Most of our foreign students come here to do research with a particular professor."
Mr. Bergman said that C. W. Post finds qualified foreign students by nurturing close ties with overseas high schools, especially in Korea and Taiwan. The university's Web site helps, too. "We have students here from 42 countries, and many of them found us themselves on the Internet," Mr. Bergman said. Out of a total enrollment of 10,000 at C.W. Post, 400 are foreign students, three-quarters of them graduate M.B.A. candidates. 
In contrast, Adelphi has an active recruitment program, and 194, or 3.3 percent, of its 5,900 students come from foreign countries. "We join educational touring groups going to South America and Southeast Asia to tell students about our university, and we travel to Trinidad on our own," said Rory Shaffer, the admissions director. "Our biggest concentration of foreign students comes from India, Pakistan, Korea, Japan and Taiwan."
Ms. Shaffer explained that the emphasis on foreign recruitment derives from the university's philosophy that a diversity on campus helps prepare students for the realities of the work world. "Kids will have to work in a global society once they graduate, and they might as well learn about it here so they'll be prepared for it," she said. "It's nowhere near as effective to hear a professor lecture about different cultural attitudes in foreign countries as it is to have the student in the next seat tell you about it himself. If you're in a marketing class, for example, it's very informative to learn from foreign students that what works here might not work in their country, and why."

GRAPHIC: Photos: AT A MIXER for foreign students at the State University College at Old Westbury, Becky Evans, an admissions adviser, left, looked at their photographs of a recent trip to Manhattan. Michael Atherly, right, from Guyana, joined Hao Sheng Chang, from Taiwan, for pizza. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Laiba Butt, from Pakistan, introduces herself to fellow foreign students at a SUNY/Old Westbury gathering. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); TERRORISM (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); HIJACKING (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); AIRLINES (66%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (61%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FOREIGN STUDENTS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; VISAS 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%)

PERSON: BURGHARDT, LINDA F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); GUYANA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



133 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Milford Studies Rate Of Infant Mortality 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH BEST 

 BODY:
HEALTH officials in Milford wonder whether they have a statistical problem or a real problem. 
 A state study shows that the infant mortality rate in the city in 1998 was twice the Connecticut and national averages, and the city's Board of Aldermen voted last week to accept a grant to find out why. 
 The grant, for $38,000 from the Connecticut Department of Public Health, is the first step in trying to determine whether the state report has found an insignificant statistical variation or a real problem in the city's health care.
The state's infant mortality report for 1998, the last year with complete data, showed Milford with an average of 14 infant deaths per 1,000 live births, twice the average statewide and nationally. There were 641 live births reported for Milford in 1998. 
Similar reviews of infant mortality rates, based on the 1998 numbers, are also under way in Hartford, Middletown, New Britain, Windham and the combined Manchester-Vernon region, said Lisa Davis, Connecticut supervisor of the National Fetal and Infant Mortality Review Program. 
Under the format developed by the national program, a team of social workers, nurses and physicians, using medical records and information from interviews with the families of babies that died, try to determine if there were unusual circumstances involved in the deaths. If the review identifies a communitywide problem, a team will be organized to develop a solution. 
Milford's public health director, Dr. Robert England, said the $38,000 grant will be used to hire a nurse who will conduct the initial review of medical records and will meet with family members to gather other information about each death. The complete review will take place over the next 16 months, he said. The members of the review committee and community action team have already been identified, he said. 
"Infant mortality is a very basic measure of health status in a community," Dr. England said. He said Milford does not have some of the factors usually seen in a community with a high rate of infant mortality, like a low overall socio-economic level or poor access to health care. "The devil is going to be in the details, figuring out why we might have a higher than average rate," Dr. England said. "Because of the one-year snapshot, it could be a statistical variation."
Most of the infants in the 1998 report died in the newborn intensive care units of either Bridgeport Hospital or Yale-New Haven Hospital, he said. 
Dr. England said a review of 1999-2001 infant mortality statistics for Milford, which are incomplete, shows that potentially half of the infant deaths were of babies in minority groups in a community with a 94 percent white population. He said the review might help explain why this occurred. Milford has a population of 52,300, according to the United States Census Bureau.
Some help in determining whether the 1998 information is simply a statistical variation could come later this year, when 1999 data becomes available, said Lloyd Mueller, senior epidemiologist in the Office of Policy, Planning and Evaluation in the state Department of Public Health, who coordinates the analysis of Connecticut's vital records data.
"If the rate goes down for 1999, it would indicate that is not a systematic problem within the community," Mr. Mueller said. 
He noted that a recent report on the health of Connecticut women indicated that while the number of births between 1988 and 1998 declined by about 4,000, the percentage of babies with low birth weights increased, in large part because of an increase in multiple births. 
"Between 1988 and 1998, the risk of having a low birth-weight baby increased by 15 percent in Connecticut," according to "Connecticut Women's Health," a 2001 report by the state Department of Public Health. About 90 percent of this increase was attributed to the increase in multiple births.
Physicians who specialize in treating women with high-risk pregnancies and newborn babies with problems said the closer review of the infant deaths would help determine if the situation in Milford and elsewhere is anything more than a statistical variation.
"It's appropriate to do the study," said Dr. Richard Ehrenkranz, clinical director of the 50-bed newborn special care unit at Yale-New Haven Hospital. "The majority of kids that die that we care for are very pre-term or have birth defects or congenital malformations."
Dr. Robert Herzlinger, director of the 20-bed newborn intensive care unit at Bridgeport Hospital, said multiple births, complications during pregnancy, infections and other factors can result in the death of an infant.
One key to delivery of a healthy baby appears to be prenatal care during the first seven months of pregnancy and monitoring the mother for potential complications such as high blood pressure or pre-term labor, said Dr. Joshua A. Copel, chief of high risk obstetrics at Yale-New Haven and professor of obstetrics and gynecology and pediatrics at the Yale University School of Medicine. 
"We know that prenatal care works," Dr. Copel said. "It means that women who get prenatal care tend to have larger babies and babies closer to term. We don't know why it works, but some of it might be they're motivated to take care of themselves."
Access to prenatal care is one of the issues that the Milford review will consider, Dr. England said. 
The state report on births for 1998 found that 9 percent of babies born to teenage mothers in Milford were either low or very low birth-weight deliveries and 14 percent of those teenage mothers had either late, inadequate or no prenatal care. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & DEATH RATES (96%); INFANT MORTALITY (95%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); CENSUS (71%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (70%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INFANT MORTALITY 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BEST, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (87%) MILFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



134 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2333 words

HEADLINE: Winning Games But Not Hearts 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD 

 BODY:
JOE ENTENA had driven from Bloomfield, and his friend Alisa Disabunjong made a slightly shorter drive from Bogota. They arrived at the Continental Airlines Arena more than an hour early, but it was worth waiting around to get a chance to stand courtside to see their favorite player before a recent New Jersey Nets game.
 "Yeah, the reason why we're here is No. 15," Entena said, pointing to the purple jerseys, displaying that No. 15, that he and Disanbunjong were wearing. Down the row of fans, at least a half-dozen others wore the same kind of jersey, with the same number. The problem, at least for the Nets, was that purple-jerseyed No. 15 is worn by Vince Carter, a star for the visiting Toronto Raptors, who, having grown up in Florida and played college ball for the University of North Carolina, does not have even a tenuous New Jersey connection. 
 "Oh, yes, we're from New Jersey and I sort of like the Nets, but, you know, well, it's the Nets," Entena said. 
If there was ever a major sports franchise with an identity problem, it is the New Jersey Nets. As they wind up what is undeniably the best regular season in its N.B.A. years, they have garnered less respect, even from those who allegedly love them, than a squad of Rodney Dangerfields.
The Nets have led the National Basketball Association's Eastern Conference for most of the 2001-2 season, a significant improvement over last year, when they went 26-56 under Byron Scott, their third coach in three disastrous seasons. With their regular season over April 17 -- with a game at Madison Square Garden against the Knicks, pathetic on the floor by comparison but drawing bigger crowds -- the Nets have clinched a spot in the playoffs.
But there have been few true believers, at least among those who spend the money to buy tickets at Continental Airlines Arena. On March 12, the night the Raptors and Vince Carter came to town to play an exciting game, won by the Nets 86-84 in the last second to put them four games ahead of their nearest competitors, the team announced a crowd of only 16,105 in the 20,049-seat arena. Even that count was belied by swaths of empty seats; the N.B.A. counts tickets sold, not actual attendance, and apparently a lot of those who bought seats stayed home this Tuesday night.
That might not have seemed so bad had not the New York Knicks also played at home that night. The Knicks have been far closer to last place than first this season, winning about half the number of games as the Nets, yet they were able to sell out their game -- and they were again woeful, giving up a third-quarter 20-point lead to lose to the Philadelphia 76ers.
The Nets have the fourth-lowest average attendance in the league, a bit under 13,000 a game, about 7,000 fans fewer than the Knicks and 8,000 fewer than the 76ers, 80 miles to the south. (The Devils hockey team, having a much less successful season than the Nets, averages more than 16,000; the arena holds 19,040 for hockey games.) It took the Nets until their 19th home game -- at which point they were 15-4 at home -- to get their first sellout, and that was only because Michael Jordan was in town with his Washington Wizards. Their season low was 5,631 on Nov. 10 against the Cleveland Cavaliers.
"I think we've done a lot better in the last month and a half," said the Nets' president, Rod Thorn. "It just takes a while. I think there is a market here in New Jersey. We just have to prove ourselves over a longer period of time."
At least on the court, the Nets have done what they can to improve things. Jason Kidd, the point guard acquired in a trade from the Phoenix Suns for the perennially disgruntled Stephon Marbury, has been often mentioned as a league most valuable player for his inspired play this year. Guard Kerry Kittles is back averaging more than 13 points a game after sitting out all last season following knee surgery. Todd MacCulloch, another new player, over from the 76ers, has been the team's best center in ages. Young players like Kenyon Martin, Richard Jefferson and Jason Collins have blossomed. Coach Scott, who has known winning as a player, having been on three championship teams with the Los Angeles Lakers, will probably be the N.B.A. coach of the year.
But off the court, things have been a bit more shaky. The team's owners have been in a wrangle with the state for years over whether to build a new arena in Newark and over who will pay for it. Fans in several areas of the state close enough to drive to the arena can't get Nets games on their cable systems. The promotion of the team, in the meantime, has been hesitant or at least low-key. The chairman and principal owner of the Nets, Lewis Katz, for instance, referred all questions to Thorn. Two assistant coaches who played for the Nets in less glorious times, Eddie Jordan, who had played for Rutgers, and Mike O'Koren, who grew up in Jersey City, were not made available for this article because, a Nets spokesman said, assistant coaches shouldn't be a focus.
In addition, there are the rumblings of longtime fans that their steadfastness is being ignored by the current administration.
"They are clearly less fan-friendly now," said Bob Gaydos, of Woodbridge, who was sitting courtside at the Nets-Raptors game and said he has had season tickets since the 1979-80 season. "I was here when being a Nets fan was like being a drug addict. You paid for your misery.
"But the front office treated you with real courtesy if you did come," said Gaydos. "All year long, they would call you up and offer you little perks, a hat or a discount or something. There was always a lunch with coaches for what were then few season ticket holders. Now, nothing. It was different. Now it's just corporate like everywhere else." 
Thorn said he wasn't comfortable with that assessment, and pointed again to the improvement on the court, which, he said, is what fans wanted most.
"The team worked for so long with people who had plans to turn things around but never stayed around to do it," said Thorn, who was an assistant coach with the Nets in the early 1970's, when they were in the American Basketball Association. He came back to the Nets in 2000 after 14 years in various positions with the league office in New York. "There were some blips up, but nothing truly ongoing. Now we think we are on the right road. No question, we have work to do. The ultimate goal is that arena in Newark. We think that will solidify our image as New Jersey's team."

An Arena in Newark
A move to Newark is neither assured nor, in the case of potential fans, apparently all that desired. The potential building of an arena in downtown Newark was on track with a combination of state and private money during the Whitman and DiFrancesco administrations. But it seems to be a back-burner project for Governor McGreevey, who has repeatedly said that his main mission right now is not finding new projects to spend on, but on closing the state's budget gap. The proposed arena would cost $355 million and the Nets ownership wants the state to provide at least half of that.
An Eagleton Institute/Star-Ledger poll in 1999 found Nets fans lukewarm about a move. Of those who said they had actually attended a Nets game in the previous two years, 24 percent said they would be more likely to attend a game if the team moved to Newark, 25 percent said they would be less likely to go to Newark for a game and the other half were not sure what they would do. 
Lately, there have been reports of negotiations among the league, the Knicks and Madison Square Garden about moving home Nets games to the Garden if a new Newark home isn't built for the team. If that happens, say some marketing experts, it would probably solve some sort of identity crisis for the Nets.
"The fact is that when you look at basketball teams, they are identified with cities: the Los Angeles Lakers, the New York Knicks. Even the Utah Jazz is really Salt Lake City," said Cliff Zukin, the acting director of the Center for Public Interest Polling at Rutgers. "We are a state with eight million people, true, but we are a suburban state, and that makes it very difficult to have a kinship with this kind of team.
"Now a move to Newark might change things in some way," Zukin continued. "You know you are in a place. There are tall buildings. There is a different kind of clientele. There is no buzz at Continental Arena like there should be a buzz at a basketball game. At the Garden, there is a buzz. People have come for the night, maybe dinner, maybe a drink afterwards. There are other people milling around town. In Newark, maybe the team would have that."
D. Randall Smith, a professor at Rutgers who teaches a course in sociology of sports, said he did not think that being a state-based team, rather than a city-based one, is a negative, except, perhaps, in New Jersey.
"We're the only state completely engulfed by two metropolitan markets," he said. "If you were in, say, Lincoln, Neb., you wouldn't have the same sort of identity problem. The baseball team may be in Phoenix, but there is no downside calling themselves the Arizona Diamondbacks, for instance."
Then he paused for thought. "On the other hand, there is no real downside I can see in New Jersey either."
Smith said there were other factors at work with the Nets. For one, though there is some same-day bus service from the Port Authority bus terminal in Manhattan, Continental Arena is essentially accessible only by car. Madison Square Garden and the First Union Center in Philadelphia are at confluences of many mass transit lines and, instead of being on the edge of population centers, are in the middle of them. It would be hard to think of someone coming from Long Island, or even Brooklyn, across the East and Hudson Rivers, to see the Nets.
Another issue is corporate support, in the form of luxury boxes or blocks of tickets to the good seats for clients, a prime source of revenue for teams, especially with the price of N.B.A. tickets. While seats to the Nets games ($10 to $100) are considerably cheaper on average than those to the Knicks ($10 to $285) or the 76ers ($15 to $235), the Nets' recent success is coming on the back end of a slide in corporate profits. Corporate spending is down, said Smith, as companies cut back.
Then there is television.
"I live in Jersey City, five minutes from the Continental Arena, and I can get Knicks games on my cable, but no Nets," said Monica McDermott, who runs the Eagleton Poll at Rutgers. "You have to think that is a problem for developing a fan base."
MSG Network, which broadcasts Knicks games, reaches 8.5 million homes in the metropolitan area, while Fox Sports Net, which broadcasts Nets games reaches only seven million. Cable ratings are up for the Nets this year by 31 percent, but they are viewed by only half the number of people who view Knicks telecasts. Many of the systems that do not carry Fox Sports Net in New Jersey are owned by Comcast, which has its own sports network, Comcast Sports Net, that primarily broadcasts Philadelphia-oriented games and programming. But Comcast says that if there were enough clamor, it would certainly carry Fox Sports Net on its systems if only for the economic benefit.
"You can't think it's because people in the state don't like pro basketball, since they obviously support the Knicks and the 76ers," said Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective. "I love pro basketball and would go see games, but I live in Mercer County and get the Knicks and the Sixers on my cable, but no Nets. Not having saturation coverage has got to hurt. I think it has to be more than just having a good team for one year. The team has to market itself."
Kenneth Shropshire, a professor at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania who advises teams and players on marketing, said that now was clearly the time for the Nets to seize the moment, while the Knicks are in a down cycle.
"It's going to be difficult because, presumably, people who care about basketball at each end of the state are already Knicks or 76ers fans," Shropshire said. "I think you have to go with a direct assault, a big campaign. 'This is Our Team' or something like that.
"The problem is that where the regional approach has worked, like, say, for the Carolina Panthers football team, it was in an area starved for a good team," he said, noting that this region is loaded with good teams in the major sports, like the Giants and Eagles in football to the Yankees and Mets in baseball and the Flyers, Islanders and Devils in hockey.

Possessing 'Retro-Cool'
To the Nets' advantage, though, is that professional basketball is the hip sport of the moment. The N.B.A. All-Star Game Weekend in Philadelphia last month attracted fans from young Hollywood and the music world, from Will Smith to Britney Spears to rock and rap artists galore. The Nets starting five appear on the cover of the latest issue of Slam, the hippest young sports magazine on the market.
"As far as hipness, I think the Nets have a retro-cool," said Lang Whitaker, an editor of Slam, which is based in Manhattan. "Down so long, winning now, so they can be the cool team to like. But they still have that big problem of real estate: location, location, location."
"Jason Kidd was on Letterman, so that was good, right?" Whitaker said. "So he tells Letterman that he is looking forward to him coming to a game. Letterman says, 'So where do you play?' and it gets a big laugh.
But then, Whitaker said, a little obscurity can mean a lighter touch on fans' wallets.
"I was covering a game and there was a family in the seats right behind me," he said. "Kids got to sit up on the court. You couldn't do that at the Garden. And I like it that they make celebrities pay for their tickets. Why should James Gandolfini" -- Tony Soprano on the "The Sopranos" -- "have to get in free when that kid has to pay? 
"So maybe the Nets can have something going," Whitaker said. "The place where the game still belongs to the people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kerry Kittles, one of the starting five for the Nets, at Continental Airlines Arena in the Meadowlands sports complex. The team averages about 7,000 fewer fans per home game than the Knicks do, which gives the team mascot and fans elbow room and youngsters a better chance at the good seats. (Above, Bernie Nunez; photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Though Kerry Kittles, left, and Keith Van Horn, center, have been productive players on a winning Nets team, a number of fans at a game last month against Toronto were wearing the purple No. 15 jersey of Toronto's Vince Carter. Still, at least one young fan displayed the home colors. The arena holds 20,049 for basketball, and attendance was announced at 16,105, but that was the number of tickets sold; judging by the swaths of empty seats there appeared to be quite a few no-shows. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); TICKET SALES (75%) BASKETBALL 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); TORONTO RAPTORS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (56%) NEW JERSEY NETS 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



135 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON; 
Where Commuting Is the Job

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
THERE is an aging fleet of railroad cars and buses. Legions of passengers are more than happy -- and annoyed -- to share their nightmarish tales of overcrowding and delays. Even though fares just went up, officials bemoan the fact that there is almost no money to make repairs.
 But George D. Warrington, who is about to take the top job at New Jersey Transit, is used to all of this. For the past four years, he has been the president of Amtrak. Unfortunately, Mr. Warrington, who is scheduled to take over on May 6, does not come bearing any type of magic bullet. 
 For now, the Bayonne native is not even sure where he plans to live when he moves from Washington with his wife and three children, though he says he plans to move somewhere "I will be able to use the transportation system." About all he is sure of is that, as a die-hard Rangers fan, he is looking forward to catching some games. 
Declining to offer a preview of his strategy for the troubled agency, Mr. Warrington said "it is premature for me to make judgments" about New Jersey Transit.
That is not to say he is unaware of its problems, particularly overcrowding on rush-hour trains. 
"Clearly, my short-term immediate focus will be around customer service and understanding how we can come to grips with short-term capacity," he said.
Simply put, New Jersey Transit is dealing with too many passengers and too few seats on a system that carries around 380,000 passengers each day -- 258,600 by bus, 110,500 by rail and 11,000 by light rail. And it is trying to do it at a time the state is scrambling to save money, making it harder to ask the state legislature for extra cash to buy more buses and trains. New Jersey Transit, which operates the third-largest transit system in the country, after New York and Chicago, has roughly 10,000 employees and an annual budget of $1.1 billion.
The 49-year-old Mr. Warrington, was recruited by Transportation Commissioner James P. Fox, and at an annual salary of $275,000 will make about $80,000 more than his predecessor, Jeffrey Warsh, who lasted less than three years.
Mr. Warrington comes to the embattled agency with decades of experience running transit agencies. He was one of the group of state policy experts who helped to form New Jersey Transit in the late 1970's. Martin Robins, who served as the transit agency's first executive director, remembers Mr. Warrington as a hard-working young man who quickly made himself invaluable.
"I had two critical aides in getting New Jersey Transit started, and George was one of them," said Mr. Robins, who is now director of the Transportation Policy Institute at Rutgers University's Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center.
Born in Bayonne and raised in Ridgefield, Mr. Warrington received a bachelor's degree in journalism and a master's degree in public administration from Syracuse University. He joined the New Jersey Department of Transportation as a policy analyst in 1975, where he caught the eye of Louis Gambaccini, then commissioner of transportation. Mr. Gambaccini assigned him to a group developing the new transit agency. 
"He was a strong right arm," said Mr. Gambaccini, who recalled the immense difficulty of creating a working transit system out of a collection of failing passenger railroads. "He was never daunted by any of the challenges."
Mr. Warrington rose through the ranks at New Jersey Transit, working as manager of rail operations and eventually becoming deputy director. In 1992, he left to become executive director of the Delaware River and Port Authority. Two years later, he left the authority to take over operations on the Northeast Corridor for Amtrak.
At Amtrak, Mr. Warrington was responsible for the railroad's highest-profile project, the Acela high-speed train, which makes the trip between New York and Washington in 2 hours and 43 minutes. The project has been well received -- about 53 percent of passengers traveling by rail or air between Washington and New York use Amtrak. But Acela was not without setbacks, including problems with the undercarriage and electric system,. By the time the project is completely phased in this summer, it will be about 18 months behind schedule.
Mr. Warrington took the helm of Amtrak just as the railroad was entering a difficult period. Congressional critics demanded that Amtrak become self-supporting at the same time the railroad was responsible for massive expenses for track and equipment upgrades. Mr. Warrington has received generally high marks for his management, although some union officials say he did not provided the necessary leadership.
"He approached his Amtrak role thinking that passengers had to ride Amtrak as they had to ride transit," said Frank Wilner, director of communications for the United Transportation Union, which represents Amtrak conductors. "In fact, Amtrak faces substantial competition that Warrington never understood."
Like most transportation experts, Mr. Warrington argued that it is impossible to run a rail system, whether at Amtrak or New Jersey Transit, without some government support. He pointed out that other forms of transportation were also subsidized, whether through highway construction or airport management. 
"There is not a transit system in the world that can operate profitably in the commercial sense," Mr. Warrington said. "The underlying economics of transit service require a public investment."
Experts say financial problems will probably be the biggest headache Mr. Warrington faces at New Jersey Transit.
"It all comes down to money," said Jeanine G. Bauer, executive director of Tri-State Transportation Campaign, a transportation watchdog group. "He has some problems with service and crowding and deciding which projects to choose, but all of that pales in comparison to the fiscal gap that New Jersey Transit is facing."
Even with the 10 percent fare increase that took effect last week, New Jersey Transit still faces a massive shortfall. Mr. Robins said the agency had been paying for daily operations by using about $230 million each year from its capital budget, which is supposed to be reserved for long-term construction and equipment. 
"They have an uncovered operating deficit somewhere over $600 million," Mr. Robins said. "The fare increase only gives them $38 million."
There are no easy ways to close the gap, especially at a time when the state is struggling with a $5.3 billion budget deficit. 
At the same time, the transit agency is facing demands for more seats along its most popular lines, the Northeast Corridor and Midtown Direct. To a certain extent, the crowding has been worsened by the terrorist attacks in September, which closed the PATH connection between Newark and lower Manhattan; as a result, passengers who used to transfer to PATH now stay on the trains. There are proposals to lessen the crush, including bi-level railroad cars, but those will all cost money. 
Another challenge will involve some of the large expansion projects already underway at New Jersey Transit. The grandest of the projects, the $400 million Secaucus Transfer, is scheduled to open next year, allowing riders from northeastern New Jersey to ride directly into Penn Station in New York. New Jersey Transit has estimated that 16,200 riders will use the new station each day to transfer to incoming trains. 
The problem is that those trains have little room for the passengers who would get on at the new station. New Jersey Transit officials say that the timing for opening the new station is "under review."
Mr. Warrington said it would take time to come up with a solution to this problem, and others.
"I need to spend some significant time listening, to the public, to policy makers, to the staff and management," he said. "I need some time to digest the issues."

GRAPHIC: Photo: George D. Warrington, who is moving into the top job at New Jersey Transit, at the Trenton train station last week. (Christopher Barth for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) RAILROADS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (56%) NEW JERSEY TRANSIT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: WARRINGTON, GEORGE D; SULLIVAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



136 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2378 words

HEADLINE: Launching a Flotilla of Ferry Terminals 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
IT took only one morning, Sept. 11, to change the image of ferry service from a pleasant anachronism to a sensible and urgently needed means of mass transit. With tunnels crippled, roads blocked and bridges closed, tens of thousands of workers and residents moved on a nimble fleet over natural, impervious and far-reaching highways. And many have stayed on board ever since.
 "We've seen five years' growth compressed into a six-month period," said Arthur E. Imperatore Jr., president of Arcorp Properties of Weehawken, N.J., and its affiliates, including New York Waterway, the nation's largest private ferry operator. He said the daily ridership had grown to 55,000 from 32,000 since the attack and the loss of the PATH terminal at the World Trade Center. 
 But it will take more than the shattering events of last fall to permanently alter travel patterns around the metropolitan archipelago. With a few bright exceptions, like the new Pier 11 near Wall Street, ferry terminals and landings around New York and New Jersey are a barren and uninviting lot: often hard to reach from the land side, almost amenity-free and with little visual or physical access to the waterfront. 
In 2004, however, that environment is expected to change radically, with the planned completion of more than $300 million worth of projects: an extensively renovated St. George Ferry Terminal on Staten Island, a completely reconstructed Whitehall Ferry Terminal and a new floating World Financial Center Terminal in Lower Manhattan, a new West Midtown Ferry Terminal at West 39th Street and a new Port Imperial Intermodal Ferry Terminal in Weehawken. Smaller terminals and landings are also planned, as is a restoration of the historic ferry slips at Hoboken Terminal by New Jersey Transit.
"The theory was if we build the infrastructure, the ferry service will come," said Iris Weinshall, commissioner of the New York City Department of Transportation, which is working with the City Economic Development Corporation on three terminals and numerous landings.
All of the new buildings are designed in one way or another to make the experience of ferry commuting easier and more beckoning, to increase the presence of stores and restaurants, to capitalize on the waterfront surroundings with wavelike forms and broad expanses of glass and to acknowledge the public's stake in the waterfront with walkways and viewing points.
City-financed terminals will not be affected by budget cuts, said Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor of New York for economic development and rebuilding. "Ferry service is a big priority for us," he said. "We don't, in the short term, have a lot of options for getting people to Lower Manhattan faster than we can with ferries."
And in the longer term, expanded ferry service is an underpinning of the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics, as a way to move athletes and spectators to far-flung arenas.
Another long-term impact is on development. "Expanded ferry service is sure to be a big boost to the economic rebirth along the Hudson County waterfront," said James P. Fox, the transportation commissioner of New Jersey. The Weehawken terminal, to be built by New Jersey Transit, sits in a cove on a 360-acre parcel that Arcorp and Marshall B. Tycher's Roseland Property Company are redeveloping as Port Imperial, with 6,000 housing units and 1.4 million square feet of commercial space.
"It will be very much the center of the community," Mr. Imperatore said, "a transit-village model of development similar to the old railroad suburbs." That same approach may be taken at the development planned by Roseland on the former site of the General Motors assembly plant in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., Mr. Imperatore said.
Landings could serve as spark plugs for development in the city, too, said David Yassky, a Brooklyn Democrat who heads the City Council waterfronts committee, citing Greenpoint, in his district, and Hunters Point and the Rockaways in Queens.
The Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance, an umbrella group of civic, community, transportation and environmental organizations, envisions 15 new ferry stops around the upper bay to create a harbor loop system.
City officials are looking at the possibility of a terminal around Kent or Java Street in Greenpoint. They are working on an East 34th Street terminal and small-scale ferry landings, basically ticket booths with shelters, in landscaped areas along the East River in Manhattan. These are being designed by Kennedy & Violich Architecture of Boston, Ken Smith Landscape Architect and the marine engineers of M. G. McLaren.
On the West Side, the Riverside South Planning Corporation is planning to renovate an abandoned railroad float bridge at 69th Street as a ferry landing. That proposal is among 15 city projects under consideration for state-awarded federal financing.
THE Economic Development Corporation is close to announcing the designation of a developer to renovate the interior of the landmark Battery Maritime Building, north of Whitehall. Coast Guard ferries sail from this building to Governors Island, now apparently destined to become an offshore City University campus. The request for proposals required that ground-floor space be set aside for continuing ferry operations. The corporation will undertake a $36 million exterior renovation, designed by Jan Hird Pokorny Associates.
Mr. Imperatore said he was exploring an intermodal terminal in the planned commercial center of Queens West, to be developed by LCOR, connected to the Long Island Rail Road's Long Island City station.
At Weehawken, construction may begin in late fall, Mr. Imperatore said. The site has already been conveyed to New Jersey Transit for a nominal amount, he said, as the company's equity contribution. New York Waterway will lease the terminal for 38 years. The project has a budget of $30 million -- $25 million for the terminal and $5 million for dredging -- which is about $3 million to $5 million short of what will be needed, Mr. Imperatore said. "We're confident we can obtain that," he said.
New York Waterway's current Weehawken terminal, about 500 yards south of the new site, is a former ferryboat called the Jamestown, which sailed between Jamestown and Newport, R.I., before the completion in 1969 of the Claiborne Pell Bridge. Rescued from a shipyard in Philadelphia by Arthur Imperatore Sr., it now sits -- or rather lists -- at anchor off New Jersey.
In contrast to this dank, claustrophobic vessel, the new terminal would have a glass-enclosed waiting room with a floor plan shaped like a cat's eye, 40 feet high and 160 feet from tapered end to end. Rather than gang all four bow-loading slips together on a single barge in front of the terminal, the architects at Gruzen Samton would pull the slips apart into two barges on either side.
"We thought we should have a waiting room with a clear view of Manhattan," said the architect, Jordan Gruzen. "The thing that characterizes this design has been the attention to making it an experience rather than just a convenience. That's part of this competition for the traveler."
The lanternlike form of the waiting room will create a strong nighttime presence on the water, said Ivan Ilyashov, an associate at Gruzen Samton, which is working with the structural and marine engineers of M. G. McLaren. They are also collaborating with Nicholas Goldsmith of FTL Happold, designers and engineers of tensile structures, on canopies to shelter the barges.
An esplanade will surround the cove. A waterside terrace will be open to the public. A station on New Jersey Transit's Hudson-Bergen Light Rail line, 600 feet away, will be connected to the terminal through a commercial building. "The real future of this ferry and others is establishing mass-transit connections," Mr. Imperatore Jr. said.
Across the Hudson, construction is to begin late this summer on the six-slip, $30 million West Midtown Ferry Terminal on Pier 79 at the foot of 39th Street, which will wrap around the imposing ventilating towers of the Lincoln Tunnel. This glass pavilion will be immediately north of the existing New York Waterway terminal at Pier 78, a jumbled grab bag of structures and slips.
About 60 percent of the cost is being met by the federal Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century and 30 percent by the city's capital budget, with the rest from the state and New York Waterway, which will also make an average annual lease payment of $750,000 over 30 years. Three slips will be controlled by New York Waterway and three will be open to other services. Operating costs will be defrayed in part by landing fees and advertising revenues. There will be 4,100 square feet of retail space.
The architects are William Nicholas Bodouva & Associates, designers of the four-year-old Terminal 1 at Kennedy International Airport. Thomas Balsley Associates are the landscape architects; Thornton-Tomasetti Group, the structural engineers.
The terminal has been shaped by more than passenger traffic, since it straddles the Lincoln Tunnel tubes and stands in the middle of the Hudson River Park and alongside the reconstructed Route 9A.
"We tried very hard in our design to make the building as open as possible, allowing both ferry terminal users and the public to move in and out easily," said Darko Hreljanovic, the project designer. That includes plazas to the north and south, a cafe from which seating can spill outside in pleasant weather and an elevated walkway over the ferry slips so that pedestrians can trace an uninterrupted waterside path.
The main waiting room will be clad in a structural glass system for highest transparency. Curving vestibules on either side of the vent stacks are intended to signal the terminal entrance clearly and to create a kind of architectural transition between the 145-foot-high towers and the low-rise terminal and plaza, Mr. Bodouva said.
Farther down the Hudson, anchored off the Battery Park City esplanade, across from the New York Mercantile Exchange, will be the Port Authority's five-slip World Financial Center Ferry Terminal, designed by the authority's engineering and architectural division, working with marine engineers at M. G. McLaren and structural engineers at Severud Associates.
"The key word is 'terminal,' " said Robert I. Davidson, chief architect for the Port Authority. "What we're embarking on is to make ferry service equivalent to other modes of transportation, where people feel comfortable in the facilities."
This terminal will be a 160-by-200-foot barge with 14,000 square feet of public space under an undulating, peaked roof of Teflon fabric made by Birdair Inc. The roof conjures canvas sails and will glow at night as a navigational aid. Broad expanses of glass are meant to preserve as much as possible of the view from the esplanade at high or low tide. "We worked very hard to arrive at a solution with the least amount of visual intervention," Mr. Davidson said.
New York Waterway would manage this terminal, but slips would be available to other operators. "This is the most critically needed piece of ferry infrastructure in the city," Mr. Imperatore said. While awaiting its completion, Mr. Imperatore wants to be able to use the North Cove Yacht Harbor at Battery Park City, a plan that has run into strong opposition.
Around the tip of Manhattan, the new Whitehall Ferry Terminal for the Staten Island ferry service is under construction. The exoskeletal curtain wall of the new waiting room is taking form next to the existing building. On the water side, the east slip has been renovated and is now in use, topped by a V-shaped canopy on which photovoltaic panels will be installed.
Schwartz Architects are the designers, with TAMS Consultants, which has been acquired by Earth Tech, and the structural engineers at Robert Silman Associates.
Just finding the footings was an intricate task, since three subway lines and the Battery Park underpass run beneath or near Whitehall, said Scott Hughes, the project manager at Silman. That ruled out pile driving because vibrations might threaten the tunnels. Instead, triple-sleeve caissons serve as the foundation, some down about 60 feet below grade. Each has a concrete core poured within a steel ring that is surrounded by two outer rings to eliminate side-to-side pressure on the surrounding soil, which could push against the tunnels.
COMPOUNDING the complexity of the assignment is the requirement of the Transportation Department that two of the three slips always stay in service.
When completed, the terminal will have a viewing platform on its roof and 7,500 square feet of retail space.
At the other end of the line will be the substantially renovated St. George Ferry Terminal on Staten Island, with 20,000 square feet of retail space and 100,000 square feet of new terraces. The $89 million project was designed by Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, working with the structural engineers at Thornton-Tomasetti.
Greeting passengers on their arrival will be a broad arch made of a metal screen cantilevered from an array of steel tubes.
"Our charge was to create a state-of-the-art intermodal center that would become a gateway to Staten Island," said Kenneth H. Drucker, the senior principal and director of design in the New York office of Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum. The current terminal is more like a gateway to a bus ramp, offering views of a solid wall of glazed brick where Lower Manhattan should be.
Given the logistical and environmental complexity of the site, the architects were limited in what they could do. The slips could not be changed, the existing columns and foundations had to remain and the structure could not exceed 90 feet.
Nonetheless, while the new waiting room will occupy exactly the same space as the current one, it should emerge from renovation almost unrecognizable. The architects plan literally to raise the roof, about five feet on the land side and 20 feet on the harbor side, creating a new glass curtain wall in place of the narrow clerestories. "We wanted to bring natural light into this dismal building," Mr. Drucker said.
The floor of the waiting room is planned as a map of New York Harbor in blue and green terrazzo, with inset brass markers pinpointing terminals and historic fortifications. And, of course, ferry routes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The first new slip of the rebuilt Whitehall Ferry Terminal is visible at center, between an older slip to the left and the Battery Maritime Building. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Rendering of the West Midtown terminal. (William Nicholas Bodouva & Associates)(pg. 1); Rendering of the rebuilt terminal at St. George, Staten Island, as it is to appear with a new gateway arch. (Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum); Above: Waiting room of the Port Imperial terminal planned in Weehawken, N.J. Left: Planned floating terminal at the World Financial Center in Battery Park City. (The Drawing Studio for Gruzen Samton); (Kinetic Media for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)(pg. 6) Map of New Jersey and five boroughs highlighting ferry terminals and landings. (Source: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); OLYMPICS (60%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) FERRIES; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); TRANSIT SYSTEMS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; HUDSON RIVER

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



137 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS; 
McGreevey Budget Takes Page From Whitman Book

BYLINE:  By David Kocieniewski; David Kocieniewski is Trenton bureau chief for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
When James E. McGreevey was sworn in as governor three months ago, a lot of the Democrats cheering at his inauguration were quietly bracing themselves for a very bumpy ride.
 Mr. McGreevey took office just as the state was coming to grips with a staggering budget crisis, and the Democrats' previous experience with that dynamic wasn't a pretty one. When Jim Florio took office in 1990, he closed a budget gap by ramming a huge tax increase through the Legislature, and so infuriating voters that Democrats were cast from power for nearly a decade. 
 Mr. McGreevey assured members of his party that he would spare them that cruel fate, and, so far, it is a promise he has kept. In fact, a close reading of Mr. McGreevey's seems less like the second coming of Jim Florio than a sequel of Christine Todd Whitman. 
After blasting the Republicans for "runaway spending," Mr. McGreevey's budget called for his own increase in expenditures and while the Governor said the increase was 1.5 percent, other analysts say the actual number is either 4 or 9 percent, depending on what accounting method you use. 
Having railed against the Republicans for "irresponsible borrowing," Mr. McGreevey calls for the state to raise more than $1 billion by borrowing against New Jersey's share of the tobacco settlement. Mr. McGreevey's proposal to drain hundreds of millions of dollars in surpluses from several of the state's special funds is also likely to force New Jersey to increase borrowing in future years. 
And after accusing Republicans of passing "an Enron budget" last year, by basing their spending plan on inflated estimates and overoptimist economic projections, Mr. McGreevey's budget is built on assumptions as rosy as the magenta suits Mrs. Whitman liked to wear when she made major televised addresses. 
Mr. McGreevey's Democratic colleagues may be relieved by the fancy dancing the governor used to avert a political crisis in the short term. In the long term, however, the prospects of Mr. McGreevey's budget plan are murky at best because he lacks one important weapon Mrs. Whitman had at her disposal (two, if you counting the magenta suit).
Republicans had the good fortune to rule Trenton from 1993 to 2001, during the most robust American economic expansion in history. The state's computer and pharmaceutical industries flourished. The dizzying rise of the stock market helped enrich tens of thousands of New Jersey residents who worked on Wall Street or in financial service businesses on this side of the Hudson. Mrs. Whitman was able to spend freely because the state enjoyed a dramatic jump in tax revenues year after year. 
Mr. McGreevey has argued that it was imprudent of Mrs. Whitman to finance her tax cuts by increasing the state's borrowing during flush economic times, a point that many economists, and even some former members of Mrs. Whitman's cabinet, concede. But that philosophical victory will be little use to Mr. McGreevey when it is time to convince Wall Street that the state's long-term finances are sound and its bond rating should not be downgraded. 
On the contrary, the fact that Republicans allowed the state debt to double during the roaring 90's will limit Mr. McGreevey's ability to borrow his way out of the problem. The state's debt will also force the Governor to make more -- and more difficult -- choices to solve the perennial gap between the amount New Jersey spends and the amount it can realistically expect to collect in taxes. 
Mr. McGreevey had begun doling out the pain. He cut 5 percent from the budgets of all state departments, laid off 600 state workers and proposed slashing aid to public universities, freezing aid to schools and municipalities and raising the cigarette tax. He is also attempting to dismantle some of the tax incentives Mrs. Whitman offered to businesses, by revising the state's corporate tax in an effort to collect an additional $500 million from companies doing business in the state
Already, the municipal leaders are warning that the McGreevey budget will lead to drastic increases in property taxes. Business leaders are ominously suggesting that the corporate tax plan could cause companies and jobs to flee to Pennsylvania. Democratic legislators from South Jersey have vowed to fight Mr. McGreevey's proposed commuter tax on Pennsylvania residents, arguing that it will force thousands of New Jersey residents who work in Philadelphia to pay higher wage taxes there. 
Even if the governor wins all those political battles, however, there is likely to be more bad news later this year. Mr. McGreevey's budget assumes a faster rate in growth. His budget plan counts on the federal government providing nearly $500 million in aid for nursing homes and prescription benefits for the elderly even though that money has not yet been committed. 
Maybe all of those things will happen; after all, many people scoffed five years ago, when Mr. McGreevey, then the mayor of Woodbridge, said he would be governor one day. 
But after breaking his leg during his first month in office, Mr. McGreevey should be careful not to dislocate his fingers during the coming months, by crossing them too hard as he prays for a speedy economic recovery.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Kocieniewski 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (61%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



138 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
Differences of Opinion

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
AS the formal-clad guests trooped into a hotel ballroom last week for the annual fund-raiser of the Boys and Girls Clubs of Newark, the glitter was dimmed somewhat by a dispute over the suspension of the charity's executive director last month.
 Some say the suspension of Simone Joye Venning has thrown the nonprofit organization's board into turmoil, baring the delicate fault lines in the relationship between the largely white and corporate-oriented board and benefactors and the largely minority staff that directs the group's programming. 
 But others, including the lawyers representing the organization's board, insist that what some perceive as turmoil is simply healthy debate. They insist that race is not a factor although they will not publicly discuss the issues that led up to the suspension with pay of Ms. Venning, who is black. That suspension could become a termination when the board meets tomorrow to discuss the future of Ms. Venning, who was brought in from a Bronx nonprofit group with much fanfare barely a year ago. 
She replaced Myles Farley, who spent five years at the head of the 64-year-old program, which serves an estimated 4,000 children at three locations in Newark.
"There are no villains here," said one board member who asked not to be named. "It's just that when there are limited resources, people start feeding on each other. Race is not even what this is all about."
However, Elizabeth McGrady, president of the neighborhood advisory board of the Broadway Boys and Girls Club and a strong supporter of Ms. Venning's, said many parents and minority board members disagreed.
"There is more to this than they are telling us, and it seems that they just can't deal with a strong, black woman," Ms. McGrady said.
Ms. Venning, through her lawyer, Donald F. Schneider, has refused to be interviewed.
She became the subject of an investigation by the board's executive committee more than three months ago when an administrative staff member accused her of reverse discrimination. According to Ms. McGrady and others on the charity's board who heard the results of the investigation, the conclusion was that she was innocent of those charges. But during that inquiry, board members turned up an allegation that Ms. Venning had transferred some $550 in a restricted budget account to an unrestricted account in violation of the group's rules.
Even that transfer of funds, which allowed a group of children in the club to travel to Westfield and participate in a table tennis tournament, was viewed by many of Ms. Venning's supporters as benign. All heads of nonprofits occasionally "rob Peter to pay Paul," said one board member who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Furthermore, there was no suggestion that the money had gone for improper, personal use.
Angelo Genova, the attorney for the board and its president, Thomas Dillon, refused to discuss the details of any of the charges, citing the confidentiality of personnel matters. He insisted that the board had followed proper procedure in all its actions.
Richard Roper, a board member for 17 years, disagrees, and two weeks ago he resigned from the board in protest. He said in an interview that Ms. Venning had been held to a higher standard than previous directors, to justify a clash of styles between her and many board members and contributors.
"She is direct, forthright and blunt," said Mr. Roper, a management consultant, "and while she could be engaging, she could also be off-putting."
Other board members, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said Ms. Venning had run afoul of some key contributors, "prickly corporate types" who were used to getting their way. She had run into "a subtle gender and racial discrimination" that would not have resulted from similar behavior by an assertive white executive director, they said.
"None of what the investigation found was actionable as far as we were concerned," said this board member, describing what he said were his views and those of a number of others among the 41-member board. "Simone's problem was that she was prickly, and sometimes prickly people can't deal with prickly people."
Prickly, perhaps, said Ms. McGrady and Mr. Roper, but competent as well. Among her accomplishments in her short time as executive director, they said, was to "give a face to the Boys and Girls Club for parents of the children." She had met with them, said Ms. McGrady, solicited their views on priorities and programs and begun an expansion of the club's efforts to once again focus on teenagers as well as preteens. The advisory board president conceded that in doing some of this, Ms. Venning had standardized procedures and cut into the independence of the organization's three club directors.
"Some staff felt that she was too harsh and maybe yelled at them," said Ms. McGrady. "But that's not something you deal with by suspending someone after less than a year. We wanted them to set some corrective action and set some benchmarks for improvement and additional review."
Ms. Venning's introduction to the world of Newark nonprofits was rocky, according to some accounts. For one thing, as someone new to the community, there was much she did not know about the well-developed network of connections among groups as well as the care and feeding of a philanthropic community that is well established and committed to a vision of the city's future.
Modia Butler, executive director of Newark Do Something, a youth leadership development program, said that from the start Ms. Venning did not seem to have the sort of personality' that the Boys and Girls Club of Newark seemed to favor in the past.
"She was not a schmoozer with the Newark philanthropic community and was kind of matter-of-fact," said Mr. Butler.
"I'm not from Newark either," he added, "but I understand the problem and dealt with it when I got here."
Vesta Godwin, a longtime manager of nonprofits in the city and now executive director of the social services program at St. James A.M.E. Zion Church, said she had rarely seen Ms. Venning "out and about and networking" with other nonprofit organizations and local civic leaders.
"She seemed a little introverted and while I am told that she was good with programs, my personal experience tells me that it is important to be out there so that people can see who you and your organization are," said Ms. Godwin. "It's politicking but it gives you credibility."
Maria Vizcarrondo-DeSoto, the president and chief executive officer of the United Way of Essex and West Hudson, one of the sources of funds for the Boys and Girls Clubs of Newark, said she was "taken aback" by Ms. Venning's suspension. She said the programs she had overseen had been "stellar" and while Ms. Venning had made mistakes in her dealings with the nonprofit and philantropic community, she seemed a quick study and willing learner.
"Most of their recent executive directors have seemed more corporate while she seemed more grass roots community organizing," said Ms. Vizcarrondo-DeSoto. 'At different times organizations require different types of people. I commended the board for hiring her at the time they did, but these are also times when there is a tremendous need for accountability, reaching targets and showing tangible results."
But any ability to show results, said Ms. Venning's supporters, has been short-circuited by the suspension and the bad blood it has created. One of those supporters said that the suspended executive director, with her expansion plans and greater outreach to parents, was probably on the right track, but at the wrong time. Because these are tight times economically for most nonprofits, executive directors are expected to make up for that with creativity and tenacious fundraising.
"But there was a rush to judgment here and it will deeply affect the credibility of the Boys and Girls Clubs in the Newark community," said one board member.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Boys and Girls Clubs of Newark serve 3,000 children, even as the leadership of Simone Joye Venning is debated. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); (Saed Hindash/The Star Ledger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); DISCRIMINATION (70%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF AMERICA (59%) BOYS AND GIRLS CLUBS OF AMERICA 

PERSON: VENNING, SIMONE JOYE; SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



139 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: F.Y.I. 

BYLINE:  By ED BOLAND Jr.; E-mail: bolande@hotmail.com

 BODY:
The Battery Is Up

Q. What's been going on at the Battery Maritime Building? There seems to be a lot of activity there.

A. There is a definite buzz at the long-sleepy Battery Maritime Building, just east of Battery Park and departure point for the now-infrequent ferries to Governors Island. Some 300 city employees are scheduled to vacate the building in a month and make way for a new use, still undetermined. Whatever that is, the building will still be the terminal for ferries to Governors Island, now proposed as the site of a City University campus. Proposals for the terminal space have been submitted to the city's Economic Development Corporation, which is spending more than $30 million to restore the exterior.
 The building, a 140,000-square-foot Beaux Arts landmark, is decidedly a fixer-upper. It was completed in 1909 and accommodated ferries traveling to 39th Street in Brooklyn. The Brooklyn ferry service shut down in 1938, and since then the building has seen various city tenants. 
 As the years passed, redevelopment schemes came and went, and the ravages of age and indifference obscured what was a jewel of the waterfront. The grandest part of the building was the waiting room, a 55,000-square-foot lobby with cast-iron columns and stained-glass windows, part of which was used until recently to store rubber bands and other office supplies. Today those windows and the glass ceiling are boarded up and the colorful moldings painted over. The lobby looks more like a warehouse, holding files as old as the building itself.

A Look at Little America

Q. I recently came across an advertising sign from 1930 that says "Visit Little America -- A Cyclorama of a New World at the South Pole -- Luna Park -- Coney Island." What's the story behind that?

A. Early in the 20th century, cycloramas like those at the Luna Park amusement area in Coney Island were a popular form of entertainment. Viewers sat in the center of cylindrical rooms, surrounded by a large painted canvas showing a landscape, a battle or another panoramic scene.
During the 1920's, the poles were unknown to most people, and polar exploration had a swashbuckling resonation. One of the most famous arctic and antarctic adventurers was Adm. Richard Evelyn Byrd, who in 1929 made the first flight over the South Pole. In that expedition, Byrd set up a camp that he called Little America.
In 1930, the country's largest cyclorama, depicting Little America, was shown at Luna Park. The cyclorama was 350 feet in circumference, 50 feet high, and animated with electrical effects, moving icebergs and dog sled teams. But as motion pictures became more popular in the 1930's, cycloramas no longer captured the public's imagination as they once did. Luna Park went bankrupt in 1933 and eventually closed. The real Little America, long abandoned, was carried out to sea by an iceberg that broke away from the ice shelf in the 1960's.

Straphanger's Doggerel

Q. In the walkway that runs from the A train at Port Authority to the Times Square subway station there is a poem that runs along the ceiling: "Overworked/So tired/If Late/Get Fired/Why bother/Why the Pain/ Just get up/Do it again." What's the meaning of this sign that hits uncomfortably close to home?

A. The sign is not meant as a cruel joke but rather to relay an artist's empathy for the commuting public. The sign was commissioned 10 years ago through the M.T.A.'s Art for Transit program as a temporary work. The artist, Norman B. Colp, said the work was inspired by the old Burma Shave advertisements that were seen along highways from 1927 to 1963. The signs were spaced a few hundred yards apart and were to be read one line after the other as you traveled along.
The piece in the walkway combines the Burma Shave model with Mr. Colp's experience as a commuter, one who recallls that he "made it to work barely on time." ED BOLAND Jr.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); WOMEN (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (65%); WRITERS (62%) BATTERY MARITIME BUILDING (NYC); AMUSEMENT PARKS; POETRY AND POETS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); SUBWAYS 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

PERSON: BOLAND, ED JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%); ANTARCTICA (73%) NEW YORK CITY; CONEY ISLAND (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



140 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
After the Fury, Investors Are Adrift

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THE average stock mutual fund barely changed in value during the first quarter, but small-cap funds were strong performers, and those specializing in emerging markets, natural resources, gold and other niches soared.
 For stock mutual funds as a whole, the panic selling that characterized the third quarter of last year was blissfully absent. On the other hand, the sharp rebound of the fourth quarter, one that recouped much of the money lost in the third, did not continue in the new year. 
 For the record, the average domestic equity mutual fund gained 0.2 percent in the first three months of the year, according to Morningstar Inc. On a quarterly basis, it was the first time that equity funds essentially treaded water since the first quarter of 1991. 
"There were a lot of land mines that you needed to avoid, like Enron, Tyco, Schering-Plough and Bristol-Myers Squibb," said Thomas F. Marsico, portfolio manager at Marsico Funds. "If you were able to avoid areas where there was substantial difficulty, you could find some spots in the market where you could get pretty good performance." 
Those spots did not include technology and telecommunications, the two worst-performing sectors. According to Morningstar, the average technology fund fell 7.3 percent in the quarter, while the average telecommunications fund sank 13.2 percent. 
But some long-neglected pockets did very well indeed. 
The best were gold-oriented funds, which gained more than 35 percent, on average, according to Lipper Inc., the fund research company. Emerging-market funds staged a comeback. And small-cap funds continued to be solid performers. 
"A lot of the best performers were in niche areas," said Russel Kinnel, director of fund analysis at Morningstar. "Not many people are going to have a big chunk of their money in emerging markets or precious metals."
Thomas McManus, chief equity strategist at Bank of America Securities, said that even though major stock market averages were little changed or slightly lower in the quarter, the last three months were very good for most stocks. The exceptions, he said, were technology and telecommunications. 
Mr. McManus said the Value Line Arithmetic index, an equal-weighted index of 1,700 stocks, reached a record high on March 19. The index "is being helped by the great performance of small- and mid-cap stocks," he said. 
"The market is not weak at all; it is very strong," he added. "The question is: Does the economic recovery justify strong earnings expectations?"
With the exception of health, telecommunications, technology and utilities, sector funds did well.
Natural-resources funds, helped by higher oil prices, had a good quarter, rising 11.6 percent, according to Morningstar. Real estate funds gained nearly 8 percent as investors sought hard assets. And financial services funds were up 4.8 percent. 
A HOST of factors, including the failure of Enron, at least indirectly helped emerging-markets funds, which gained an average of 12.2 percent, according to Lipper. 
"Enron has been a godsend for us," said Mark Mobius, managing director of Templeton Asset Management, which oversees all of Franklin Templeton's emerging-markets funds. 
"People began to realize that maybe emerging markets aren't that bad, and that they are undervalued relative to other markets," he said.
Emerging markets are trading at anywhere from one-third to one-half the price-to-earnings ratios of companies in developed-country markets like the United States, he said. And the flow of money out of emerging-markets funds has slowed to a trickle.
"After about a year on the sidelines, institutional investors are interested again," he said. 
Emerging-markets funds were the best performers among world equity funds, but funds focusing on particular parts of the globe also did well. Latin American funds gained more than 9 percent. Pacific funds that exclude Japanese stocks gained 12 percent. 
Over all, international stock funds rose 4 percent during the quarter, according to Morningstar.
"Clearly, the investor focus has shifted outside the U.S. for now, to find outsized performance," said Jeff Tjornehoj, a research analyst at Lipper. 
Investors were clearly interested in stocks during the first quarter, but they pumped a lot of money into taxable bond-market funds, too. 
According to AMG Data Services, which tracks flows of funds, $57.9 billion went into equity funds over the last three months, the biggest quarterly increase since the first quarter of 2000. 
"This is the first time since 1990 where the month of March appears to have instigated a greater inflow than in January and February combined," Mr. McManus of Bank of America Securities said. "It is completely different from last year's pattern. In March of 2001, investors clawed back the money they put in during January and February, whether to pay capital gains taxes or out of fear." 
Robert Adler, president of AMG, said that about 43 percent of the money directed to equities went into small-cap and aggressive-growth funds. For the seventh consecutive quarter, there were net redemptions from technology funds. 
Mr. Kinnel of Morningstar said: "It seems obvious that you are not going to get a smooth comeback in technology. It is amazing how many fund managers are low on technology right now." 
Mr. Marsico said he owned no technology stocks in his growth fund. The sector "remains overpriced," he said. 
Taxable bond funds, which attracted nearly $86 billion in new money last year, remained popular in the first quarter this year, even though market interest rates moved higher and the Federal Reserve indicated that it had reached the end of its cycle of monetary easing. 
More than $34 billion went into bond funds during the first quarter. In anticipation of an economic recovery, and attracted by higher rates, investors sank more than $5.7 billion into high-yield bond funds during the quarter.
"Investors are becoming lenders, shifting risk from equity to bonds," Mr. Adler said. "In an environment of declining default rates, investors are locking in fairly substantial returns." 
Although bond funds attracted a lot more money, they did not have a particularly good quarter: the average taxable bond fund rose just 0.3 percent, according to Morningstar. 
The Vanguard Group, the nation's second-largest fund family, had a busy quarter. 
Brian Mattes, a Vanguard spokesman, said net inflows for the quarter were more than $17.5 billion, $10 billion of which went into equity funds. In the first quarter of 2001, Vanguard had net inflows of $14.9 billion, Mr. Mattes said. 
Flow figures at Fidelity Investments, the biggest mutual fund company, were not yet complete.
Through February, the company recorded $3.7 billion of net inflows into its equity funds, and $800 million into bond funds.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas F. Marsico, portfolio manager at Marsico Funds, says the market was strewn with "land mines" like Enron. (Brian Brainerd for The New York Times)(pg. 28) Drawing (Riccardo Stampatori)(pg. 19) Chart: "FIRST QUARTER"JAN.1-MARCH 31, 2002 A New ShinePrecious-metals funds, helped by the price of gold, were the top sector fund category in the first quarter. Average returns, by sector type. Precious metals: +36.80%Natural resources: +11.61Real estate: + 8.14Financial: + 4.81Utilities: - 2.22Technology: - 7.31Health: - 6.22Communications: -13.19 Up, but Not by MuchAverage returns, by mutual fund category, for the quarter. International stocks: +3.95%Municipal bonds: +0.70U.S. diversified stocks: +0.46Taxable bonds: +0.29 Value Over GrowthValue funds beat growth funds for the quarter, and small-cap funds fared better than large-cap ones. Graph shows Growth, Blend, and Value funds. Leaders and LaggardsBest- and worst-performing United States diversified stock funds for the quarter. Babson Enterprise: +16.93%N/I Numeric Investors Small Cap Value: +16.70Fidelity Select Automotive: +15.07Wasatch Small Cap Value: +14.39ICON Materials: +13.79Nevis Fund: -17.74Rydex Velocity 100: -17.81ProFunds UltraOTC Inv: -18.82Van Wagoner Post-Venture: -25.60Van Wagoner Emerging Growth: -25.92 (Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (99%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BONDS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (62%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (84%); LIPPER INC (66%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (84%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



141 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Sensible, Sure, but A Secret?

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
IT would be difficult to overestimate the need of a wide swath of America for a simple book of common sense. Judging by recent events, sample chapters might include: Do not twirl a loaded shotgun with house guests nearby. When giving orders to shred documents wanted by government investigators, avoid writing down the instructions. And do not bet your life savings on a mutual fund invested in companies with little more than an idea and a stock symbol. 
 Of course, few people line up to buy such books, although they might do so if they think they are getting something more, especially when it comes to financial advice. 
 James K. Glassman has dressed up a respectable array of common sense about investing in a book whose most intriguing aspect is its title, "The Secret Code of the Superior Investor" (Crown Business, $25). 
Mr. Glassman is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative research organization in Washington. He also writes a weekly column for The Washington Post. Most famously, perhaps, at least among stock market aficionados, Mr. Glassman is co-author, with Kevin A. Hassett, of "Dow 36,000: The New Strategy for Profiting from the Coming Rise in the Stock Market" (Times Books, 1999).
"Dow 36,000" produced no small degree of snickering among Mr. Glassman's fellow financial journalists. On the book's publication date, Oct. 1, 1999, the Dow Jones industrial average stood at 10,273. Mr. Glassman and his co-author argued that the "proper level" was more than three times that.
Americans were too concerned about the risk of long-term investing in stocks, the authors contended, when in fact long-term investors have faced more risk investing in Treasury bonds. With their outdated notions about how much they should be willing to pay for stocks, investors were keeping the market from realizing its true potential.
For a while, it looked as if the authors were onto something. The Dow rose 1,500 points over the next three months. Since then, however, it has returned to about where it was when the book was published. Broader market indexes have fallen more sharply: the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down about 10 percent in that time, and the Nasdaq composite has fallen by about a third.
In his latest book, Mr. Glassman acknowledges that the timing of his last book was not good. But he, at least, is unrepentant. "In early 2001, we reviewed our theory to see if we should revise or recount, and instead we came away more convinced than ever that we were right, despite terrorism and economic slowdown," he writes in "The Secret Code."
In other words, the authors were not wrong. It was the other 39,999,998 American investors who are still clinging to faulty notions about where stock prices should be.
Mr. Glassman does not cling for long to his portrayal as Cassandra, however, to the benefit of readers seeking some sound investment advice. He dispenses that advice in language that is, for the most part, easy to understand and has been used to great success by legions of investors.
To wit: Buy companies that by nature of their dominance of an industry have strong defenses against competitors. Hold them for a long, long time. Keep a wish list of stocks that would be bought at a certain price. Never sell a stock short or buy on margin. Ignore Alan Greenspan. Buy bonds individually and hold them to maturity.
Why any of this advice constitutes a "secret code," however, is unclear. Mr. Glassman explains: "It's a code in two senses of the word: both as a group of rules to guide you and as a set of tools to decipher a mystery" -- that is, how to invest successfully. But it is far from secret, with many reliable guides, including much of the same information, available at the local bookstore. 
MR. GLASSMAN hits a couple of wrong notes. "At this point in history, I can't imagine a diversified 20-stock core portfolio that does not include at least one education stock," he writes. But many for-profit education companies have been less than stellar investments, and the political atmosphere seems to be turning against the companies, particularly in the kindergarten-to-12th-grade markets. 
He also praises one of his favorite stocks, Tootsie Roll Industries, which he highlighted in "Dow 36,000" as one of three stocks that illustrated his investment theories.
From the publication of "Dow 36,000" Tootsie Roll has gained more than 50 percent, a stellar performance. Mr. Glassman is less forceful in reminding readers of his other two picks -- Microsoft and General Electric.
A reader who bought equal dollar amounts of those three stocks when Mr. Glassman's previous book was published would have earned about 7 percent in the roughly two and a half years since, for an average annual return of less than 3 percent -- not much better than a savings account. Someone buying an equal number of shares of each of the three stocks would have fared much worse, losing 40 percent of his money. 
No doubt they will all turn out to be winners when the Dow does finally reach 36,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); JOURNALISM (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); TERRORISM (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; REVIEWS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: GLASSMAN, JAMES K; WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: SECRET CODE OF THE SUPERIOR INVESTOR, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



142 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Inthe Maze Of Fees, Sizes Are Relative

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH mutual funds have long been known for giving small investors access to the financial markets, many fund families have begun raising the cost of admission.
 In the last few years, some funds have increased the minimum investment needed to open an account, others have added fees on accounts below a certain size and some have done both, industry analysts say. 
 For example, Vanguard, a favorite of cost-conscious investors in part because of low expense ratios, now has a $3,000 minimum for regular initial investments in the Vanguard 500 Index fund ($1,000 for I.R.A.'s and accounts that are gifts to minors or trusts for minors). The fund charges shareholders with balances of less than $10,000 an annual maintenance fee of $10; it deducts an additional $10 a year if the balance in a regular account falls below $2,500 and total Vanguard holdings are below $50,000. 
Many independent analysts say that even with extra fees, small investors may still be subsidized by big shareholders. Nevertheless, small investors should be aware of their total costs and the effect of fees on portfolio performance.
"The issue that the industry has grappled with all these years is that it is as expensive to administer a small account as a large one," said Geoffrey H. Bobroff, a mutual fund industry consultant based in East Greenwich, R.I. "Is it in the interest of funds to recruit small investors? Only if they are committed to more investments."
But they may not be. The industry's growth may be stymied, he added, pointing out that "the industry has penetrated 52 percent of households" and that after two years of market declines, new investors are not flocking to funds.
Mr. Bobroff said one alternative for an investor who did not have $3,000 to buy into a Vanguard fund would be to invest with TIAA-CREF, the big pension fund manager that also offers 11 mutual funds and plans to offer 5 more in the fourth quarter. TIAA-CREF has a $1,500 minimum for regular accounts (up from a former $1,000) and $500 for I.R.A.'s. It charges no maintenance fees.
Rather than shopping around for the lowest minimum, Mr. Bobroff said, investors should consider their financial goals and research funds to find one that is likely to suit those goals, then put money into a savings account until they have enough to invest in a chosen fund.
"One of the secrets of the industry is a very progressive pricing structure," said Mercer Bullard, a former assistant chief counsel for the Securities and Exchange Commission and founder of Fund Democracy, an advocacy group in Chevy Chase, Md. 
Referring to the expense ratio of 0.18 percent for the Vanguard Index 500, Mr. Bullard said, "Eighteen basis points won't cover the cost of handling a small account." But on a $100,000 account, Vanguard collects $180. "They make a lot on it," he said, "so the big guy was subsidizing the little guy." 
THIS disparity is behind the new maintenance fees. Recognizing the disproportionate burden for larger investors, Vanguard introduced the Admiral class of shares for all funds, with a $250,000 minimum investment. The expense ratio on those shares for the Vanguard 500 is a mere 0.12 percent.
If the value of a small investor's shares in the Vanguard 500 fell to $1,000, Mr. Bullard said, the additional $20 in fees would mean that the shareholder was paying the equivalent of an expense ratio of 2.18 percent. 
While that may be justified by the economics of the industry, it is important that shareholders realize what the costs are. Vanguard discloses all fees and costs clearly on its Web site. However, the S.E.C. does not require complete disclosure of flat fees in a fee table of prospectuses, and that distresses Mr. Bullard, for one.
"One thing the S.E.C. should do is require full disclosure of fees," he said. "The fee table is not up to date."
Similarly, I.R.A. account holders should be aware of custodial fees charged by banks and brokers, as well as those charged by the funds held in the account, he said.
Mr. Bullard advises shareholders, "It's much cheaper to consolidate your accounts." An index fund should be a core holding, he said, with perhaps three or four other funds to meet your intended asset allocation. "You don't need to be in 10 or 12 funds," he said.
Kurt Brouwer, president of Brouwer & Janachowski Inc., an investment advisory firm in Tiburon, Calif., said, "Fund expenses didn't get a lot of thought from investors in the past," when markets were chalking up big gains, "but today they are." 
Mr. Brouwer, who uses no-load mutual funds to put together portfolios for clients, added that even when fees appear modest, they can have a significant impact on how a portfolio's value compounds over time. 
Say an investor put $3,000 into the Vanguard Index 500, and it returned 8 percent a year for 10 years. After the 0.18 percent expense ratio and the $10 annual fee, she would have $6,226. If she invested in a fund with a 3 percent load and a 1.41 percent expense ratio (the industry average, according to Morningstar) and that same $10 annual fee, she would have $5,373, assuming the same 8 percent return.
Fortunately, Mr. Brouwer said, good no-load funds with low minimums are available. Four with $1,000 minimums for regular accounts are the Harbor International fund, Selected American Shares, the Harbor Capital Appreciation fund and the Legg Mason Value (Primary Class). Many more are available for I.R.A.'s.
If the experts are correct, the trend that all have seen is only beginning. "I foresee mutual fund slums, segregating large and small accounts," Mr. Bullard said, and perhaps more new fees that need not be disclosed in the fee table in fund prospectuses.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Low Barriers to Entry"While many funds have raised the amount required for an initial investment, some funds with relatively low minimums, including these, are recommended by Brouwer & Janachowski Inc., financial advisers. FUND NAME: Harbor InternationalFUND TYPE: InternationalREGULAR ACCOUNT MINIMUM: 1,000I.R.A. MINIMUM: 500 FUND NAME: Selected American SharesFUND TYPE: Large capREGULAR ACCOUNT MINIMUM: 1,000I.R.A. MINIMUM: 1,000 FUND NAME: Harbor Capital AppreciationFUND TYPE: Large capREGULAR ACCOUNT MINIMUM: $1,000I.R.A. MINIMUM: $500 FUND NAME: Legg Mason Value (Primary Class)FUND TYPE: Large capREGULAR ACCOUNT MINIMUM: 1,000I.R.A. MINIMUM: 1,000 FUND NAME: White Oak GrowthFUND TYPE: Large capREGULAR ACCOUNT MINIMUM: 2,000I.R.A. MINIMUM: 2,000 FUND NAME: Westport Small Cap (Class R)FUND TYPE: Large capREGULAR ACCOUNT MINIMUM: 5,000I.R.A. MINIMUM: 2,000 FUND NAME: Fremont BondFUND TYPE: Small/mid-capREGULAR ACCOUNT MINIMUM: 2,000I.R.A. MINIMUM: 1,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); BONDS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (55%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



143 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
3 Exclamation Points For a Quiet Quarter

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
MOST stock mutual funds eked out meager gains in the first quarter, but there were notable, successful exceptions, particularly among funds that bought small-cap value stocks.
 Managers of some of the top-performing domestic stock mutual funds talked about the choices that drove their returns in the first quarter and about their expectations for the market for the remainder of the year. 

The Neglected Microcaps
Microcap stocks produced superior returns for the $423 millionBabson Enterprise fund. The fund, which concentrates on stocks with market capitalizations of less than $300 million at the time of purchase -- was the top-ranked diversified domestic stock fund in the quarter with a return of 16.9 percent.
Lance F. James, 47, the fund's manager, said many microcap stocks offered exceptional values. "These are companies that are neglected by Wall Street," he said. "It's partly because of their size and partly because often they have short-term operating problems. So we're able to find companies with superior fundamentals at low relative valuations."
One of his biggest winners was Sterling Financial, which rose 55 percent in the quarter. Sterling, a savings institution holding company in Spokane, Wash., operates mainly in the rural and suburban Northwest. The company's earnings are expected to rise to $2.04 a share this year, he said, from $1.59 in 2001. 
Mr. James also made money with J&J Snack Foods of Pennsauken, N.J. whose shares rose 52.9 percent during the quarter. The company, which makes and distributes frozen beverages and snack foods, dominates the market for soft pretzels. "If you go to a stadium, an arena or a mall, you're probably buying J&J pretzels," he said. Earnings slowed in 2000 and early 2001 because of manufacturing problems in its frozen-beverages business that have been corrected, he said. He estimated that earnings would rise to $1.85 this year from $1.33 a share in 2001.
The fund also held shares of the Intertape Polymer Group, a plastic-packaging manufacturer in Montreal. Its stock price rose 38.6 percent during the quarter, to $11.50. Because of the economic slowdown, it had fallen to less than $10 at the end of 2001 from more than $30 a share in late 1999, Mr. James said. "Our feeling is that as economic activity picks up, packaging is one of the first groups to benefit, and this company has a lot of operating leverage because it did a good job of cutting costs," he said.
He remains bullish on the outlook for microcap stocks. "We've seen five quarters of strong performance for microcaps, but that followed five years of underperformance," Mr. James said. "So we think we're still in the early stages of the microcap run."

Value Over Growth Stocks
Small value stocks propelled the N/I Numeric Investors Small Cap Value fund into second place for the quarter, with a gain of 16.7 percent. The fund closed to new investors on March 28. It has $61 million in assets, according to Morningstar.
"Our stocks are cheaper than the stocks in the Russell 2000 value index," said Arup Datta, 34, who manages the fund with Jerry Campbell, 43. They found bargains among industrial, financial services and consumer cyclical companies, Mr. Campbell said.
The stock price of ArvinMeritor, an auto parts supplier in Troy, Mich., rose 45.4 percent in the quarter. "They supply primarily to General Motors, which has been doing well," Mr. Campbell said. 
They also held shares of New Century Financial of Irvine, Calif., up 67.8 percent. New Century specializes in mortgage loans for people with credit problems. The mortgages are secured mainly by first mortgages on primary residences. "Even if consumers are in trouble, they're more willing to default on credit card debt than on housing mortgages," Mr. Datta said.
Shares of Media General of Richmond, Va., which operates newspapers and television stations primarily in the Southeast, rose 24.3 percent in the quarter. The company benefited from the rebound in the economy, Mr. Campbell said.
The managers expect small value stocks to continue to perform well. "Despite the run-up, small value stocks look much better than small growth stocks," Mr. Datta said.

A Rebound in Leisure
The recovering economy also drove the performance of the ICON Leisure and Consumer Staples fund. It returned 13.3 percent in the quarter, taking seventh place among diversified domestic equity funds. It has $84 million in assets, according to Morningstar.
Craig T. Callahan, 51, and Derek N. Rollingson, 29, co-managers, look for strong companies in the industries they believe will be leaders for the next year or two. Starting in 2001, they focused on cyclical, economically sensitive consumer-oriented companies. Companies specializing in leisure products account for the fund's biggest stake, at 22 percent of assets. Restaurants are second, at 19 percent. 
One of their biggest winners was the Action Performance Companies in Phoenix, a maker of motorsports merchandise. The stock rose 60.9 percent in the quarter. Mr. Rollingson said the growing popularity of professional motorsports had helped the market for licensed replicas.
Another holding, the Mandalay Resort Group, the hotel and casino operator in Las Vegas, rose 43.5 percent in the quarter. 
"Fears that travel behavior in the U.S. would undergo a permanent change after Sept. 11 led to an irrational sell-off of this and other hotel and casino stocks," Mr. Rollingson said. "It's merely been returning to what we perceive as fair value."
They also held shares in Lone Star Steakhouse and Saloon, based in Wichita, Kan. The stock of Lone Star, which owns and operates a chain of midprice, full-service restaurants, rose 40.9 percent in the quarter after a 377 percent increase in adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of 2001.
The managers are bullish about their current holdings and the broader market. "We expect the same theme to continue at least for the next few months into this summer," Mr. Callahan said, "so we're just partly through the rally that began last September."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lance F. James, above, picked microcap stocks for the Babson Enterprise fund. Derek N. Rollingson and Craig T. Callahan, top right, manage the Icon Leisure and Consumer Staples fund. Jerry Campbell and Arup Datta, below right, lead Numeric Investors Small Cap Value. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times); (Steve Peterson for The New York Times); (Rick Friedman for The New York Times) Chart: "Beating the Broader Market"Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds fared against some benchmarks in the first quarter. FIRST-QUARTER RETURNS BABSON ENTERPRISEBabson Enterprise: +16.9%All small growth funds: +8.6 NUMERIC INVESTORSNumeric Investors: +16.7%All small growth funds: +8.6 ICON LEISURE/CONSUMERICON Leisure/Consumer: +13.3%All mid-cap growth funds: +4.9 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Morningstar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (77%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: J & J SNACK FOODS CORP (54%); INTERTAPE POLYMER GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BABSON FUND GROUP; ICON FUNDS; N/I NUMERIC INVESTORS 

TICKER: JJSF (NASDAQ) (54%); ITP (TSX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (54%); NAICS326112 PLASTICS PACKAGING FILM & SHEET (INCLUDING LAMINATED) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: JAMES, LANCE F; ROLLINGSON, DEREK N; CALLAHAN, CRAIG T; CAMPBELL, JERRY; DATTA, ARUP; GOULD, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



144 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Over Time, Statistics Look Better Than Life

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE 

 BODY:
IF an investor had bought $100 worth of American stocks at the market bottom in 1933, that modest portfolio would have grown to about $1 million by the end of 2000.
 Yet if long-term investing is so great, and everyone knows it, why aren't there more millionaires, or heirs of millionaires, walking around? 
 There are several reasons, as set out by Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh and Mike Staunton in their book, "Triumph of the Optimists: 101 Years of Global Investment Returns" (Princeton University Press, $99.50).
First, studies of long-run returns often suffer from "easy-data bias," which results from using starting dates when the market was at very low points, thus overstating performance for the average investor. 
"Easy-data bias arises from researchers' preference for data that are not obfuscated by 'unusual' events such as war or government default, are based on good-quality price and income information, do not suffer from trading halts and are produced on a continuing basis," according to the authors, all from the London Business School. So much for random sampling.
They note that important studies calculate long-run returns from low points like 1918 in Britain and within a few years after the end of World War II for other European countries.
Returns are also flattered by what the authors call "success bias," reflecting the fact that stock-index components are usually successful, growing companies.
Then there is "survivor bias." Very long-term performance, going back to the years before major indexes were created, tends to be calculated for companies that are still in business; the ones that fail and drop off the board are not included.
The authors studied returns for the 101 years from 1900 through 2000, removing these biases as best they could. For some markets, returns fell by more than half, compared with studies of shorter periods.
Over the 101 years, the United States market, the world's biggest in 1900, as it is now, returned 10.1 percent annually, enough to turn each dollar invested into $16,797. The return for Britain, the other major market a century ago, would have been healthy as well, with $:1 growing to $:16,160.
But a dollar was worth a lot more in 1900, about 24 times as much, and a pound bought 55 times as much in inflation-prone Britain. The real return for each dollar over the century was $711, or 6.7 percent annually; each pound invested in British stocks grew to $:292, or 5.8 percent a year, adjusted for inflation.
A few markets did better than that, and many did worse. Of 16 markets studied, the best real returns were recorded in Sweden, Australia and South Africa. Then came the United States and Canada. All five had inflation-adjusted returns of 6.4 percent or more annually.
The worst markets over the last century were, in order, Belgium, Italy and Spain, with Germany and France only a bit better. Returns in these five countries were 3.8 percent a year or worse.
In each of the 16 countries, though, stocks did better than bonds. Swiss bonds did best, rising 2.8 percent annually after inflation, reflecting Switzerland's status as a haven throughout a dangerous century. Five countries' bonds showed negative real returns; the worst were those of Italy and Germany, at negative 2.2 percent. The others were those of Japan, Belgium and France.
While stocks fared better, the authors pointed to several reasons why investors would not have been able to receive returns approaching those found in the study.
One is trading costs -- not just brokerage commissions, but also the spread between a stock's buying and selling price.
Another drag on performance is taxation. Buying and holding for the long term may be wise, but most investors sell eventually, and then they are taxed. Even if they do not sell, their estates are likely to be taxed.
ONE solution to both problems is indexing. Buying stock index funds means lower costs because they trade infrequently, resulting in lower commissions and capital gains taxes. But they will not reduce the tax burden on dividends, which have been a significant contributor to total return over the last century.
Actively managed funds do not seem to be the answer to either expense, and they add another: the high cost of management, which can lop 1.5 percentage points a year off returns. That would be acceptable if they produced significantly higher performance, but they do not. Barton Biggs, global strategist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, cites one study showing that from 1984 to 2000, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 16.3 percent a year, on average, while investors in United States equity funds achieved an average annual gain of 5.2 percent.
"It would be heartening for our business if active investment management beat the index," Mr. Biggs said. "But that has not been the case."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); WRITERS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); STATISTICAL METHOD (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); WORLD WAR II (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: DIMSON, ELROY; MARSH, PAUL; STAUTON, MIKE; DE AENLLE, CONRAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); SWEDEN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



145 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business: ExecutivePay; 
Consultants Find Autonomy, With a Grain of Risk

BYLINE:  By MAGGIE JACKSON 

 BODY:
CAROL CHRISTENSEN feels as if she has aged five years in her first six months as an independent consultant. She woke up with the jitters her first few mornings and lost sleep over a recent job offer, which she ultimately turned down.
 But she loves her independence and says she is making more money now than she did in her last job, as the manager of new-product development at Sargento Foods in Plymouth, Wis. 
 The pay for solo consultants can be lucrative, with some people earning six-figure salaries for short-term project work. But the fees and workload are sometimes inconsistent from one month to the next, which can make consulting a risky proposition in both bad and good economic times. 
"There's no safety net, and that can be a rush, but it can be daunting," said Ms. Christensen, 34, of Sheboygan, Wis., who quit her job at Sargento in September.
It's hard to predict what consulting will pay because fees vary widely by industry and region. They also depend on experience, contacts and the timing of the work.
"It really is all over the map, because different skill sets and levels of expertise demand different fees," said Jack Sweeney, editor of Consulting magazine, a monthly publication. "It can be a matter of finding a client who is in need of your services at that very moment."
Perhaps that is why few people succeed in this field for an extended time. Kennedy Information in Fitzwilliam, N.H., a research company focused on the consulting industry, puts the number of long-term solo practitioners at 70,000 to 80,000. Of course, there are many more independent consultants who work short term, often between jobs or after layoffs.
"One reason people fail is that they overdeliver and undercharge," said Alan Weiss, author of "Value-Based Fees: How to Charge -- and Get -- What You're Worth" (Jossey-Bass). 
Independent consultants are usually paid a fixed fee for a project or by the hour. Those starting out will need to investigate the marketplace to determine proper rates. Some resources may be other consultants, industry groups and the Internet. Realrates .com, for example, keeps a running survey of pay for information technology consultants at its Web site, www.realrates.com.
Doug Florzak, 43, a technical writer and consultant in Westmont, Ill., who maintains a Web site for independent consultants (www.SuccessfulIndependent.com), said he earned just $35 an hour on his first project a decade ago. Now, despite a downturn in his field, he works 30 to 40 billable hours weekly, earning $65 to $75 an hour. He says he has to spend an additional 10 to 20 hours a week, though, on marketing.
But the payoff can be big. Technology consultants earned salaries that were, on average, 60 percent higher than those of full-time employees in their field, according to a recent survey by Dice Inc., an online recruiting service.
A Web design consultant, speaking on condition of anonymity, said she recently turned down a job with a $100,000 annual salary because she was in the running for a project that paid $55,000 for eight weeks of work. Consultants in human resources, meanwhile, can bill clients $1,500 to $2,000 a day, veteran consultants say. 
Principal consultants at firms with fewer than 10 employees had a median total cash compensation of $80,000 in 2001, according to Abbott, Langer & Associates, a research firm in Crete, Ill. Ten percent of those principals earned more than $230,000, it said.
Ms. Christensen says she charges by the project. While she said she was making more than she did at her old job, she hasn't been able to project her 2002 earnings since her month-by-month pay has fluctuated.
To obtain lucrative projects, Ms. Christensen will need to promote her services regularly. Many newcomers underestimate the amount of time they must spend marketing themselves -- time that takes away from their consulting projects. This is one reason consultants, like entrepreneurs, can become shackled to the demands of running their businesses.
"Traditional selling strategies don't work, the brochures and such," said Peter Block, an independent consultant since 1966 and author of "Flawless Consulting: A Guide to Getting Your Expertise Used" (Jossey-Bass). "You have a product that's hard to describe. You have to differentiate yourself from other people."
 TO cope with this often-dreaded aspect of the work, more independent consultants of all types are banding together, forming working alliances on projects and sharing tips about new work, said E. Michael Shays, a solo consultant since 1990 who is also chairman of the Institute of Management Consultants USA, a 2,250-member professional association. 
Mr. Shays said he recently traveled to Florida with four other independent consultants to help managers at an accounting firm better market their products.
Some consultants who loathe marketing subcontract with the larger consulting firms to do specialized work. "That gets me in front of larger clients with more interesting work than I could usually get as an independent consultant," said Brenda VanderMeulen, 46, who started River Hills Consulting, a human resources consulting business, in Holland, Mich., after leaving Herman Miller, the furnishings company.
For those who set up a consulting business, becoming their own bosses is an enormous motivation. Solo consultants often complain about past experiences with office politics. Many people rose through the corporate ranks only to become saddled with managerial chores, so they went into consulting to return to the work they love.
"The last work I did at my old company was lay off 200 people -- that was not particularly fun," Ms. VanderMeulen said. 
For Ms. Christensen, who voluntarily left her job at Sargento during a downsizing, being an independent consultant means flexible hours and the chance to work at home and spend more time with her 6-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son. She said she used her severance package to start Christensen Marketing and Innovation. 
"It's different from being in an office, and being in meetings all the time," Ms. Christensen said. "I wear the fuzzy slippers, sometimes well into the afternoon; I'm here for the kids." 
During the last year, demand for consultants declined in some fields, like financial services, as companies tightened their belts, consultants say. Still, a weak economy doesn't necessarily spell disaster for independent practitioners.
Sometimes it can mean more work. Companies that are skittish about hiring when the economy is weak often turn to consultants in the meantime. Some consultants have expertise that appeals to budget-conscious corporations, or they can adapt their skills to meet clients' needs. Other consultants, like executive coaches, have skills that can fit any economic cycle.
Dave Woods, 50, left his job as director of marketing at the Shearman & Sterling law firm in New York a year ago to open a specialized consulting practice that helps law firms nurture relations with key clients. He went out on his own -- a step he had long considered -- after paying his daughter's last college tuition check. While the recession worried him, he felt ready to take the risk of going solo. 
"The recession made my potential clients more risk averse, but at the same time, law firms have become so much more aware and conscious of how valuable their clients are," said Mr. Woods, who started Creating Key Clients in Allendale, N.J. 
Despite their success, some consultants decide that independence is not for them. Joseph Furando, 36, now the director of employee development at the McGraw-Hill Companies, said he closed his human-resources consulting practice in 1998 and returned to a permanent job in the corporate world because he grew tired of worrying about his next contract. "The latitude, freedom, flexibility were a joy," he said. "But I had five years of sweating it out every year. It wears on you." 
STILL, he said, the taboos against going solo have eroded since he went out on his own. When he quit his job, someone in his former company told him, " 'You're never going to get another corporate job; they'll never see you as a team player,' " Mr. Furando said. "The stigma is not there anymore." 
Ms. Christensen agreed, noting that former colleagues and business contacts have been supportive of her venture. A top executive at Sargento even helped her fine-tune her sales material, she said. "People I don't even know are so interested," she said. "I see a sparkle in their eye; they've thought about this, but haven't taken the plunge." 
Her initial fears of failure are fading, yet she remains mindful of the risks of setting up shop on her own. "One question I have," she said, "is if my worries about the business will ever truly go away."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carol Christensen works at home in Sheboygan, Wis., as a consultant, gaining more time with her children, Megan, 6, and Nick, 5. (Erol Reyal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WRITERS (87%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (60%) CONSULTANTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTENSEN MARKETING AND INNOVATION 

PERSON: JACKSON, MAGGIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



146 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW: EXECUTIVE PAY; 
Will a Deck Of Options Always Be Stacked?

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS make a big deal out of "asymmetric information," the imbalance that results when one party in a transaction has more information about a deal than another party. Used-car salesmen know more about the cars they sell than the buyers. If they overcharge too often for lemons, trust is lost and the marketplace breaks down.
 These imperfections in a market system cannot be helped. For decades, we have used government intervention to protect the party on the short end of an asymmetric transaction. Many states mandate warranties for used cars, requiring dealers to repair, at their expense, cars that break soon after the dealers sell them. Supermarkets, to cite another example, must stamp expiration dates on containers of milk as evidence that it is fresh. 
 So why, when asymmetric information is hard enough to deal with in its natural state, do we deliberately create this headache by paying chief executives astronomical sums through stock options? Chief executives know more about their companies than others do, and options have become an incentive to prop up the stock, or to be less than frank about a company's shortcomings.
"When you give chief executives too much compensation in stock options, they concentrate too much on the stock price and there is a perverse incentive to raise the stock price, particularly when the chief executive wants to exercise his own options," said George Akerlof, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley, whose work on asymmetric information won him a Nobel Prize last year.
Stock options have a laudable goal. By giving a chief executive an ownership stake and thus tying his fortunes to those of his company, options should be an incentive to work hard. In fact, psychologists and economists have yet to come up with empirical evidence that the incentive works as advertised. The negative incentive, on the other hand, became quite visible in the 1990's. That is when the pay of the nation's top executives multiplied obscenely. Stock options were the multiplier; they grew from a small portion of pay to the principal portion.
 "The downside incentive becomes really serious," Mr. Akerlof said.
Arthur Andersen's undoing is evidence of the pressure that top executives applied to accountants to approve books that raised profits in false or misleading ways. They had the asymmetric advantage, and their apparent goal was to drive up a company's stock price. Enron's chieftains offered more evidence of this behavior. "When you realize that stock prices can be manipulated, then stock options become an incentive to do this," said Sandhil Mullainathan, a behavioral economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Thomas R. Horton, a retired I.B.M. vice president and a former chairman of the National Association of Corporate Directors, describes a deeper malfunction in the stock option incentive.
"I have known C.E.O.'s who reported a healthy quarterly increase in net income of, say, 11.2 cents a share, which was good, but some Wall Street analyst said it should have been 13 cents and the stock price dropped, " he said. "So the C.E.O. pushes to get the stock price up. His options gave him a stake in this endeavor. He cut back hiring and R.& D. and postponed investment spending for a couple of years, thereby postponing the potential profit from that investment."
THAT is quite an indictment. Efficient markets, the goal in America, are supposed to produce optimal results. But that is not happening at the company run by the chief executive in Mr. Horton's example. Multiply his behavior by that of hundreds of others across America and you have a corporate sector that is less than optimal, at the very least, in capital spending, research and staffing. Clearly, stock options have distorted the incentives that should be embedded in an open market system.
The knee-jerk reaction is to scrap stock options. That is not the best solution; it is like outlawing used-car salesmen because the supposedly efficient market furnishes them with a perverse incentive to hoodwink buyers. Government-mandated warranties put the incentive back on track, in effect preserving the market by balancing the interests of buyers and sellers.
That balance is the sort of optimal outcome that open markets promise but seldom deliver without government rule-making, Mr. Akerlof finds. A better incentive would emerge, hopefully, from rules that restrict the number of options awarded and regulate how they can be exercised.
"Asymmetric information, unregulated, is driving out an incentive that we need," Mr. Akerlof said. "That does not have to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Akerlof

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); USED CAR DEALERS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (79%); ETHICS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (73%); BONDS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); APPROVALS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; STOCKS AND BONDS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; AKERLOF, GEORGE A 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



147 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Once Bold, Janus Shows Its Conservative Side

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
INVESTORS are searching for the real Janus. 
Throughout the bull market of the 1990's, the mutual fund group was closely identified with an aggressive growth style -- outsized bets on fast-growing companies with little regard to price. It delivered spectacular returns.
 After more than two dismal years, however, Janus has made big changes in its investments, in the process confusing many shareholders. The company's biggest holdings as of Jan. 31 included several stodgy companies like insurers and banks, and it even owned Philip Morris, the food and tobacco company. Janus Enterprise, among the most aggressive funds, kept about one-fifth of its assets in cash. 
 "They seem to have made some pretty significant changes in the portfolios," said Jeremy DeGroot, director of mutual fund research at Litman/Gregory Asset Management in Orinda, Calif. "It certainly raises a question: What is their discipline now?"
Janus executives say their strategy reflects a changed market environment. "My hair stands on end when people say our strategy has changed," said James Goff, who was named director of research this year and was the only investment professional Janus would make available for an interview. "This strategy hasn't changed."
The company is caught in a difficult position. Among the 25 largest fund complexes, Janus, which is owned by Stilwell Financial, had the sharpest decline in assets in 2000 and 2001, losing some 35 percent of what it manages in stock and bond mutual funds, according to the Financial Research Corporation in Boston. Janus, now managing a little more than half the $300 billion in total assets it had accumulated at its peak in 2000, has repeatedly apologized for its poor performance and has vowed to do better. But if it shifts too sharply from its aggressive growth strategy, it risks alienating some investors. 
"What's going on here?" asked Bryan Spencer, a graduate student in Boston who lost confidence in Janus and sold his shares in the Janus Orion fund. Although he applauds Janus's recent efforts to protect investors from a downturn, he worries that a fund once aimed at finding growth companies has become something else. 
"To some extent, you expect your fund to be true to its calling," he said.
If Janus funds are not as concentrated in fast-growing companies, they may not enjoy high-octane performance when the market turns. Managers may also have trouble finding another style that works as well. 
"The risk is that they have kind of lost their moorings and are searching for an investment discipline," Mr. DeGroot said. 
In keeping with the iconoclasm on which Janus has traditionally prided itself, Mr. Goff resisted offering a simple explanation for the group's approach. He described Janus as "an eclectic growth manager" and contended that people have paid too much attention to what the group was doing in the late 1990's. People are also reading too much into specific stocks that are now in the portfolios, he said.
"We've generated good long-term performance," he said. "We've done it in a lot of ways."
But some of the funds' most recent declines put even the long-term success of Janus's approach into question. The Janus Fund, the group's flagship with $24 billion in assets, has underperformed the broader market by nearly a percentage point a year over five years and two points over 10 years. The Janus Worldwide fund is about even with the market over the last decade.
There is no question that Janus's main priority is to deliver solid returns again. Its executives say that turning performance around is more important than explaining their strategy.
Mark Whiston, president of retail and institutional services at Janus, who, unlike Mr. Goff, has no role in making investment decisions, said, "Getting back competitive performance on a three-to-five-years basis tends to cure a lot of ills and heal a lot of scars." 
Few analysts contend that Janus's two dozen portfolio managers have completely lost their touch in finding fast-growing companies. "The managers are skilled" and are still focused on growth, said Catherine Hickey, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. Companies like Nokia, the cellphone giant, and AOL Time Warner are still prominent in the portfolios, she noted.
"These people didn't all of a sudden become stupid," said A. Michael Lipper of Lipper Advisory Services, a longtime mutual fund observer. "The game changed."
If fast-growing stocks return to favor in the next couple of years, "it's not an unreasonable bet that they will be in a position to play that game," Mr. Lipper said.
JANUS did undergo something like a reorganization earlier this year when it shuffled some of its fund managers to create a new investment management structure. The moves followed the departure nearly two years ago of its chief investment officer, James Craig, who left to help his wife run their charitable foundation. Janus appointed a six-member executive investment committee that includes portfolio managers and Thomas Bailey, the chief executive. Now, Helen Young Hayes, who joined Janus in 1987 and is one of its most prominent managers, serves as managing director for investments. 
Ms. Hayes continues to help run two funds, Janus Overseas and Janus Worldwide, the group's second-largest fund, with some $19 billion in assets. The fund suffered a 23 percent decline last year, underperforming the market as well as its peer group. In 2002, the fund declined 0.9 percent in the first quarter.
Mr. Goff, who has been with Janus since 1988 and whose record at Janus Enterprise over the last two years is unimpressive, with declines of 40 percent in 2001 and 30 percent in 2000, was named director of research. He said he worked closely with Ms. Hayes, who provided much of the strategic direction for the funds. Mr. Goff focuses on helping individual managers and analysts. "I do most of the heavy lifting," he said. 
At the very least, Janus is now taking a much broader view of what constitutes a growth company than it did a few years ago. While there are some technology stocks in its portfolios, managers are studying more industries to find companies with increasing earnings. They are looking at areas like insurance, where profits have been improving because insurers had been able to raise their rates, Mr. Goff said. American International Group, the big insurer, was one of Janus's largest holdings at the end of January.
There are other distinctly untech names. The funds had sizable positions, for example, in Citigroup and Bank of New York. Citigroup was found appealing for its cash flow and powerful distribution, and Bank of New York for its profitable processing business.
Janus managers are also finding attractive prospects in health care, Mr. Goff said. Among the funds' big holdings is Tenet Healthcare, the hospital chain.
While Janus is not doing much in the way of soul-searching, at least publicly, Mr. Goff said it was tweaking how it picked stocks to try to avoid repeating the sharp declines of 2000 and 2001. Those years were painful: the flagship Janus Fund, for example, fell 15 percent in 2000 and 26 percent in 2001, and Janus Twenty, another popular fund, declined some 30 percent each of the two years.
The fund group's "principal mistake," Mr. Goff said, was in not seeing the coming downturn in capital spending by corporations, which affected many of the funds' investments in technology and telecommunications concerns, ranging from big companies like Cisco Systems to up-and-comers like Avanex.
The decision by managers to pay less attention to valuations was not as significant an issue, he contended. "If earnings had panned out, it wouldn't have turned out to be expensive," he said. But, of course, earnings did not pan out -- at all.
"The macro has dominated in the last few years," Mr. Goff said. "It has not been our forte."
Although Mr. Goff plans to think more about broad economic trends, he emphasized that Janus funds would continue to be run from the bottom up rather than according to some sweeping economic forecast. Individual managers have tremendous leeway. "It's a very collaborative firm," he explained. "It doesn't lend itself to dictators."
Which also brings into question just how significant a role Ms. Hayes or anyone else will play in directing Janus's investment strategy. While the portfolio managers may need a more disciplined hand in assessing risk or thinking about valuations, Janus's culture does not lend itself to accepting significant direction, said Geoffrey H. Bobroff, a fund consultant in East Greenwich, R.I.
Though Ms. Hayes has proved herself as a talented portfolio manager, she has no track record as an investment chief, Mr. Lipper noted. "I don't know if she's a leader or a builder," he said.
STILL, Janus is unlikely to see any big changes in how it operates soon. Mr. Bailey, who founded Janus a little more than 30 years ago, has indicated that he intends to remain as chief executive, despite his decision last fall to cash out his remaining interest in the group. Stilwell, the group's parent, which just gave senior Janus officials, including managers, $300 million worth of equity in Janus as a way of making sure they stay loyal, seems unlikely to make any moves soon to rein in the group. Stilwell declined to comment.
Jeff Morris, a portfolio manager at Invesco, which owns shares of Stilwell, said, "Longer term, you have to put equity in the hands of the people who are key to making things work." 
Acknowledging Janus's slowness in reacting to overall economic and market changes, Mr. Goff is trying to expand Janus's investment coverage and develop a broader array of potential investment ideas. "I really want to pump up the volume on new-idea generation," he said.
Despite its research prowess, Janus has been the victim of several recent stock market debacles, including Enron's implosion. As a result, Janus is also working on ways to identify problem companies. Mr. Goff plans to prod managers and analysts to talk more to outsiders about a company's prospects and be more wary of becoming too close to management.
"I'm an instigator," said Mr. Goff, adding that part of his responsibility is to delve more deeply into any investment that is performing poorly.
But while Mr. Goff said managers were paying more attention to valuations because the stock market has become more conservative, he also reserved the group's right to change its mind and return to buying high-priced stocks, if necessary. Otherwise, he said, "you're going to be suffering years where you are out of sync."
At the same time, though, he promised investors -- many of whom have lost more than half the value of their investments since the market bubble burst -- a less wild ride.
"We certainly intend to be steadier than we were and do better in downturns," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Helen Young Hayes is managing director for investments at Janus, a fund family where fund managers have traditionally had much latitude in running portfolios. (Susan Biddle for The New York Times)(pg. 19); Thomas Bailey, who founded Janus, has said he intends to remain as chief executive despite cashing out his interest in the group. (Bloomberg News)(pg. 25) Chart: "Cashing Out"Investors have been pulling money of of Janus over the last two years. Graph shows the estimated quartely cash flows from 1995-2001.(Source: Financial Research Corp.)(pg. 25) Chart: "Reduced Stature"Janus's total assests under managemnet hav ebegun to erode, after surgin in the late 1990's. Graph shows assets (in billions) since 1997.(Source: Janus)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BOND FUNDS (79%); BONDS (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); TOBACCO MFG (70%); CONSERVATISM (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: JANUS CAPITAL CORP 

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%) SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED; GOFF, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



148 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Where Have All The It Girls Gone? 

BYLINE:  By MARY ROBBINS 

 BODY:
I AM slumped on the couch squinting at the television, not because the reception is poor but because I don't understand. What I don't understand is the first few minutes of "It Girls," a documentary by Robin Leacock. The film opens with some quick shots of celebrities, then moves on, inexplicably, to a receipt being churned out of a taximeter. Up next, more celebrities at a Damien Hirst art show. Damien Hirst is asked, "What's an It Girl?" He looks genuinely perplexed as he says, "You're making a movie about what?"
 Excellent question, Mr. Hirst. 
 "It Girls," which will be shown on the Women's Entertainment cable channel tonight, is about those hard-partying post-debs in New York who seem to live to be photographed out and about. I point this out because some people in the film, which was shot in part during Fashion Week in the fall of 2000, did not seem to recognize the term, or at least were reluctant to discuss it. 
For their edification -- and for anyone contemplating an It Girl career -- Casey Johnson, the baby powder heiress and one of the film's subjects, gives some helpful advice. It Girls should never wear stockings in the winter, and they should always be polite to waiters.
I am always polite to waiters, but this has nothing to do with It-ness -- I'm just afraid that they will do something unpleasant to my food if I am rude. So I am not an It Girl, but luckily being an It Girl right now is not so much It as Out.
My sister Kadee, who has often been photographed at parties and is therefore highly qualified to comment, pointed out that in the late 90's, "there was even more excess than in the 80's, and It Girls were perfectly suited to that mood."
Back then, being an It Girl was a perfectly acceptable, if somewhat vague, occupation. People in New York were having fun, and why not? Earlier in the decade, people had felt compelled to be somber and reserved amid a recession, but as the 90's wore on the burden of conservative behavior was felt by all. When everyone became a billionaire courtesy of the stock market and the Internet, the time was right to celebrate.
Everyone seemed to get something out of It-ness. The girls got to be sort of famous and got some of the perks of fame, like lots of invitations and free designer clothes. The press got its photos. The fashion designers got their clothes noticed. And those who were so inclined were provided with excellent material for satire and gossip.
I do not think it is possible to pinpoint the moment that It-ness crested and began to crash earthward, but I remember one party, a black-tie affair, where I felt distinctly uneasy. I was standing on a balcony in Lincoln Center with a number of other guests, including several It Girls. Below, there were people looking up and pointing. I don't know whether they were discussing which dresses they liked, whether they should attempt to crash the party or whether they ought to erect a guillotine, but I do know that I felt a certain French Revolution queasiness. 
Some sense of proportion had been lost, and this became ever more apparent as the money slipped back to the fantasyland it had come from. The economic downturn made expensive parties, and girls who were famous for nothing, less and less appealing. As a former not-to-be-named It Girl says, "By last spring, things were out of control and some of the younger girls didn't get how frivolous the whole thing seemed." It-ness wasn't exactly over, but it was not doing well. After Sept. 11, many things that had been interesting, important or fun became not so.
"In the current economic and social climate, It Girls have no relevance," Tim Jeffries, a London-based art dealer who has dated Claudia Schiffer and Elle Macpherson, told me.
The news is not all dire. It Girls have been around for years, and although they don't wear stockings in the winter they are heartier than they look in Vogue. I polled a few former It Girls last week, and while they are not keen to wear the label (some denied ever having been It Girls), they all seem certain that It-ness will be back. Kate Reardon, a contributing editor for Vanity Fair, which named its own parade of It Girls in the September 2000 issue, points out: "There will always be a fascination with beautiful girls. The It Girl idea isn't gone; it's napping. It's just been put to sleep for a while."
I wonder how long naptime is?

GRAPHIC: Photo: RARE SIGHTING -- A scene from "It Girl," a documentary about a species that, with the economy's decline and the Sept. 11 attacks, is not so fashionable now as it once was. (WE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); FASHION & APPAREL (88%); FASHION DESIGN (88%); FILM (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); FASHION SHOWS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%) WOMEN; TELEVISION 

PERSON: LEACOCK, ROBIN; ROBBINS, MARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: IT GIRLS (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



149 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
Learning How to Talk About Salary in Japan

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
IN the button-down world of Japanese big business, comparing salaries is about as tasteless as pouring ketchup on sushi. For the Japanese, who dislike standing out in a crowd, talking about how much you make is certain to annoy friends and embolden enemies. And few companies disclose pay numbers.
 But ever so slowly, Japanese pay is both changing and moving more into the open. This spring, the government will make it easier for companies to distribute stock options to rank-and-file employees and outside directors. The government will also push companies to set up compensation and audit committees of outsiders, who might set pay more in line with performance. 
 Still, Japanese executives are paid far less than their American counterparts. On average, Japanese chief executives earn a salary of $300,000 to $500,000 a year, more in line with European chiefs, versus an average of $1.5 million for an American in the same position, according to East West Consulting, an executive search firm in Tokyo. Fixed salaries, on average, make up three-quarters of the pay of a typical Japanese company president, with the remainder in bonuses and stock options. In the United States, stock options make up three-quarters of a chief's pay. 
Executives here earn about 12 times more than the average worker, a gap that has grown gradually since stock options were introduced in 1997. By contrast, American executives earn 180 times more than their employees, a gap that has more than quadrupled since 1980, according to East West Consulting.
However, the outside world, including shareholders, is often in the dark about precise pay numbers here. As in many European countries, companies here have to report only a lump sum for what they pay all top executives, not each salary. The Orix Corporation, for example, a financial and industrial leasing giant, paid its 25 directors and in-house auditors a total of 466 million yen, or $3.5 million, in its 2001 fiscal year. The company lists how many stock options and warrants it gave them -- 300,900, twice as many as in 1998. 
By comparison, Canon Inc., the office automation and camera company, paid its directors 1.2 billion yen last fiscal year, or $8.9 million, an average of $357,600 each -- about two and a half times what Orix paid its directors. Sony was even more generous. Its 38 directors, auditors and top executives received 3.9 billion yen -- $29.12 million, or an average of $766,323. At the best-known companies, some executives make as much at $1 million a year.
The curious can go beyond those estimates by searching government records to see how much tax an executive paid in aggregate, an indication of pay. But those figures are imprecise, too, because they include capital gains and other income.
Many companies here use seniority-based pay scales; executives climb the corporate ladder at roughly the pace of co-workers. The tax system also had an impact on executive compensation: for years, the top personal income tax rate was 70 percent, while pensions were taxed at 20 percent. As a result, companies paid smaller salaries with incremental annual raises and a big pension payout at retirement.
These days, the top tax bracket is 50 percent, but the pay system remains largely unchanged because it allows companies to plan labor costs more easily. It also minimizes friction in the boardroom, where fat salaries can inflame delicate egos. In most cases, the chairman, president and director of human resources, who usually serve on the board, set the pay for all executives. "It wouldn't look good if they made their own salaries much higher than others," said Yuzaburo Mogi, president of Kikkoman, the food company, and vice chairman of the Japan Association of Corporate Executives. "Anyway, focusing too much on your income is vulgar."
This murkiness has kept salaries low, some contend, because executives have a hard time bargaining for a raise when they cannot pin down what their equals make elsewhere. And it keeps "sokaiya," or corporate extortionists, at bay. Sokaiya are in steady decline, but in the past they threatened to disclose potentially embarrassing information about executives if they were not paid off. 
"Management is afraid of releasing any potential ammunition that may come back to haunt them," said Curtis Milhaupt, a professor at the Columbia Law School and an expert on Japanese corporate law. 
In recent years, board members have been badgered more by shareholders than by gangsters. Japanese companies are still run basically for the benefit of employees, so grabbing market share and protecting jobs takes priority over raising the bottom line and paying dividends. But the decade-long malaise of the Japanese economy and a growing number of Western shareholders in Japan have forced many executives to improve their return on assets. 
THAT new focus, in turn, has pushed managers to justify expenses more precisely, make decision-making more transparent and promote the use of incentives to reward good performance.
To that end, companies are cutting bloated executive rolls and the size of their boards, which are filled with insiders and are two to three times larger than American boards. A survey by the Tokyo Stock Exchange showed that nearly half of its listed companies said they were shrinking their boards. In 1997, Sony more than halved its board, to 12; the directors now include three outsiders. 
Out, too, are dozens of the advisers and councilors, the retired executives who have offices, secretaries, golf memberships and limousines but have no legal standing in the company, and so do not have to have their salaries disclosed. "Japanese companies are now very hard-pressed and are trying to cut down on expenses, so advisers and councilors are also now being cut," said Nobuo Tateisi, chairman of the Omron Corporation, which makes factory automation equipment, and vice chairman of the Japan Federation of Employers' Associations.
To break down the clubby atmosphere, companies are also removing their in-house auditors in favor of independent committees that make decisions on executive compensation, management and auditing. The government will likely amend the commercial code this spring to certify formally what some have already started doing.
The independent compensation committees will set executive salaries and twice-yearly bonuses, which are driven increasingly by profits. At the NEC Corporation, for instance, bonuses make up 40 percent of pay for the chairman and president. The size of the bonus, however, can as much as triple if the company does well, or be eliminated in slow years. To set its bonuses, Kikkoman devised a performance index that lists each executive's contribution to the company's cash flow.
Stock options are another tool for prodding executives to put the bottom line first. Only 9 percent of the companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange now offer them, but the percentage is growing rapidly. The number of options handed out, though low by American standards, has grown ninefold since 1997.
As of last Monday, the government began to allow companies to grant options to rank-and-file workers, and it no longer required that a shareholders' meeting be called to win approval. A rule restricting options to employees of a parent company has been scrapped, allowing executives at subsidiaries and outside board members to receive them, too.
Still, stock options are unlikely to become a dominant part of executive pay packages. Decision-making is often a group exercise here, and companies are only just learning how to quantify individual executive performance. Companies generally limit the gap between the largest and smallest bonuses to about 30 percent of the average bonus.
"Stock options aren't really in the front of most executives' minds because they are such a small part of overall pay," said Makoto Maruyama, senior vice president and a board member at NEC. "Most people still think of their salary and bonus first."
There is another problem, too -- the market. The benchmark Nikkei 225 index is 70 percent below its all-time high, leaving many options issued in the technology-driven rally of 1999 and 2000 underwater.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture last Sunday with an article about executive compensation trends in Japan was published in error. It showed Yoshio Tateisi, the chief executive of the Omron Corporation, not Nobuo Tateisi, its chairman. As vice chairman of the Japan Federation of Employers' Associations, Nobuo Tateisi (who is a brother of Yoshio) discussed how Japanese companies were trying to reduce expenses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nobuo Tateisi, a corporate executive and member of an employers group, says companies are cutting the number of outside advisers. Chart: "Pay Disparity"Japanese executives earn much smaller salaries than their counterparts in the United States. And while they make far more than the average worker in Japan, the disparity is not nearly as large as it is at American companies. Salary ratiosFor every dollar the average worker earned, chief executives made: Japan'99: $10'00: $12 U.S.'99: $165'00: $180 Average annual salaries in Japan, for all companies POSITION: ChairmanSALARY: $181,848 POSITION: Chief executiveSALARY: 189,228 POSITION: Vice presidentSALARY: 167,076 POSITION: Executive directorSALARY: 133,848 POSITION: Managing directorSALARY: 115,380 POSITION: DirectorSALARY: 83,076 POSITION: AuditorSALARY: 77,544 Average compensationIn 2000, for chief executives of companies listed on: Tokyo Stock Exchange: $300,000-$500,000New York Stock Exchange: $1.5 million (Sources: Seikei Research Institute average salaries ; East West Consulting salary comparisons )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUDITS (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); LEASING INDUSTRY (64%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (61%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; BONUSES 

COMPANY: CANON INC (81%); ORIX CORP (65%)

TICKER: CAJ (NYSE) (81%); 7751 (TSE) (81%); IX (NYSE) (65%); 8591 (TSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (81%); NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (65%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (65%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



150 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
With Rates Low, Riskier Bond Funds Beckon

BYLINE:  By ERIC BAUM 

 BODY:
LOW short-term interest rates have dampened the performance of many bond funds, prompting investors to seek better returns, sometimes by unwittingly taking on greater risk. 
 Yields declined to 3.63 percent, on average, for short-term municipal bond funds by the end of March, compared with 4.05 percent a year earlier. For intermediate funds, the yield was down to 4.09 percent, versus 4.28 percent the previous year. 
 As a result, many investors have been calling financial planners like Douglas Hanke, president of Florida Financial Advisors, in Tampa, in search of higher yields.
"We tend to talk most of them out of it and tell them to wait it out," he said. "There are a lot of options you can take without having to stretch for yields that may not be real and lasting." 
Some investors have been attracted to bond mutual funds that use complex financial instruments that are intended to bolster returns when interest rates decline. These tactics share a similar problem: when rates rise, they often depress returns. 
Many investors are unaware that their mutual funds are using such techniques and are unprepared for the negative consequences. 
These methods involve the use of derivatives, investments that derive value from another investment or market. The most common examples include stock options and warrants, whose values rise or fall relative to the price of company stock. 
The mutual fund industry is divided over the use of these tools. Paul Disdier, director for municipal securities at Dreyfus, said derivatives, in general, were safe, but that the complex nature of these investments could be intimidating for some investors.
"It's kind of like making sausage," Mr. Disdier said. "You may not want to know what's in it." 
One of the most common derivatives, an "inverse floater," involves buying the coupon portion of a bond. Inverse floaters increase in value when short-term interest rates fall; many fund managers use them, but sparingly. 
"We're taking advantage of the fact that rates are low with a small portion of the portfolio, without taking undue risk," said Philip Condon, a fixed-income manager at Scudder Funds who uses inverse floaters to enhance yields.
THE Vanguard Group prohibits the use of inverse floaters in its funds. 
"They're not the friendly little puppies people think they are," said Brian Mattes, a spokesman for Vanguard. "At the end of the day, the only way you're going to get a higher yield is to take more risk, and unless you're prepared to do that, you probably shouldn't." 
Franklin Templeton Investments also bars derivatives aimed at offsetting falling short-term interest rates. "We take a plain-vanilla approach that's easy for our investors to understand," said Sheila Amoroso, co-director of the municipal bond department at Franklin Templeton. "When you're using a derivatized product, you're adding more risk to the portfolio, and we've chosen not to do that." 
Managers of closed-end bond funds, another type of fund, often use a strategy that relies on leverage, or borrowed money, to bolster returns. Closed-end funds, which trade on the open market in the same way as stocks, often sell at a discount to the value of their underlying assets, and many financial advisers consider them unsuitable for unsophisticated investors. 
Over the last 14 months, a group of fund companies that includes Pacific Investment Management, Alliance Capital Management, Nuveen Investments and BlackRock have started a total of more than 40 leveraged closed-end municipal bond funds, raising more than $10 billion.
Many of the new closed-end funds leverage an average of one-third of a portfolio's assets while short-term rates are low and reinvest the proceeds in bonds. The strategy is analogous to taking out a low-interest home equity loan and investing in an upbeat stock market -- a strategy that can have painful results if the market declines. 
Currently, the benefits of leveraged closed-end muni funds are obvious. The Nuveen Municipal Value fund, a closed-end fund that does not use leverage, earned 5.35 percent in the 12 months through March. The Nuveen Premium Income fund, a similar closed-end fund that uses leverage, earned 7.67 percent during the same period. The difference in their performances can be attributed to leverage, said William Fitzgerald, managing director at Nuveen Investments.
Leveraged funds are attractive when interest rates are declining, but history shows that rising interest rates can quickly erode higher yields. 
Donald Cassidy, a senior research analyst at Lipper, said the average market total return of a closed-end fund -- the change in the share price plus the dividend -- was a negative 23.6 percent from Oct. 29, 1993 to Nov. 11, 1994, a dismal market period for bonds.
The average loss for closed-end funds that did not use leverage was much less -- 13.6 percent -- during the same period.
"That was a nasty bear market for bonds," Mr. Cassidy said. "By adding leverage, portfolios did worse. It was pretty distasteful, because the average investor in these funds is risk-averse." 
Mariana Bush, an analyst of closed-end funds at First Union Securities, says short-term interest rates appear to have bottomed out again, and she advises investors who are considering leveraged funds not to forget what happened in 1994. She pointed out that leveraged funds buy bonds on margin, which amplifies losses and gains.
"Everything that looks wonderful when rates are coming down looks much worse when rates are rising," she said. "For people who need the money or are concerned about capital preservation, they should not chase these yields. If rates go up, they could lose." 
William H. Gross, managing director of Pacific Investment Management, which is known as Pimco, recommended leveraged closed-end muni funds last month to an audience of amateur investors. He said short-term rates were unlikely to rise quickly enough to undermine the funds.
"The benefit of the leverage of the closed-end funds will be reduced with Fed raising rates somewhat, but we expect short rates to move up perhaps to 3 percent, but not up to their previous 6 percent," he said. "This should enable investors in closed-end municipal bond funds to continue to receive above-market yields." 
Skeptical investors, including Stephen and Ruth Fox of Farmington Hills, Mich., who have lost at least 5 percent of their retirement income since 2000 because of a declining market, are staying away from leveraged closed-end funds and other more aggressive bond funds. Mr. Fox, who is 85, describes himself as a long-term investor who is leery of any funds sold on the basis of past performance. 
"I think it's a lot of baloney," he said. "There is no guarantee that it will continue that way. There has to be more to it than someone saying their past experience has been very good."
Mr. Fitzgerald said that Alliance was starting more leveraged closed-end funds but could not discuss the risks involved because of Securities and Exchange Commission regulations barring fund companies from discussing planned new offerings. Tom Chang, a spokesman for BlackRock, which is also starting leveraged closed-end funds, declined to comment for the same reason. 
JOHN CARL, senior vice president and director for global products at Alliance, was upbeat about the funds. 
Mr. Carl said Alliance's leveraged funds contained the risk of rising short-term interest rates by budgeting for spikes in borrowing costs and managing the portfolio holdings. 
Citing the Alliance Municipal Income fund, which has cut dividends only once since its inception in 1993, he said investors were missing out if they stayed away from closed-end bond funds.
"In environments like this, there are a lot of people sitting there and watching a percentage of their portfolios decline," Mr. Carl said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Fox of Farmington Hills, Mich., is staying away from leveraged closed-end funds and other more aggressive bond funds. (Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); BOND FUNDS (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INTEREST RATES; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS) 

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (52%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (50%)

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: BAUM, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



151 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
States Ease Rules on Tapping Into Trust Funds

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIMELMAN 

 BODY:
THE long bull markets of the 1980's and 90's frustrated many people who received income from trust funds that had been established three or more generations earlier.
 As the capital in their accounts swelled, their income often declined because interest and dividend yields dropped. Even when the income generated by a mix of stocks and bonds fell below 2 percent or so of the fund's total value, many trustees were not permitted to distribute any of that growing principal to the trusts' beneficiaries. 
 Help has begun to arrive for the tens of thousands of those beneficiaries, but the solutions are neither simple nor uncontentious. Many state legislatures have recently adopted laws allowing trustees to pay out some of that principal, as well as income. But the fiduciary responsibility of the trustees involves complex legal issues, as does the task of harmonizing the intentions of the trusts' founders and current and future beneficiaries. Many trustees are debating just how far laws should go to alter time-honored methods for distributing money. 
"These new laws mean trustees will have more decisions to make than before," said Robert Wolf, a trust lawyer in Pittsburgh. "And having choices can either be a great strength or a great weakness."
In the most common approach to the problem so far at least 24 states, including New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and California, have given trustees the power to adjust formerly irrevocable income-bearing trusts, many of which were established by long-departed family members. Under this system, a trustee has the discretion each year to decide how much of a trust fund's total value can be paid out.
In addition, four states -- New York, Delaware, Missouri and Maine -- have given trustees the choice of converting a traditional income-bearing trust fund into a legal entity known as a "total return unitrust," under which trustees must set a fixed portion of the portfolio's entire value as an annual disbursement to beneficiaries. Generally, that portion cannot be freely adjusted in later years. New York's law, which became effective at the beginning of this year, prescribes a 4 percent payout rate, while Delaware allows trusts to choose a rate between 3 and 5 percent. Lawmakers in Florida have passed a unitrust bill that awaits gubernatorial signature before becoming law. In Iowa, a new unitrust law wasexpected to go into effect shortly.
Some trust institutions, including PNC Bank and Wilmington Trust, are using unitrust laws to convert old-fashioned income trusts into accounts that pay out a total return. Other institutions, like State Street Global Advisors and Deutsche Bank, are focusing on using the power to adjust to give beneficiaries the ability to tap into principal.
BUT the total-return legislation has prompted a complex financial debate about how much of a fund's total value can be disbursed to current beneficiaries without endangering the solvency of the trust. Opinion is also divided about which legal approach -- the total return unitrust or the power to adjust -- is preferable. 
For trustees, the stakes can be huge. A trustee perceived as favoring, say, current over future beneficiaries, might face a court suit. Such actions, most of which are settled before they arrive in court, have become more common in the last two years, said Dominic Campisi, a fiduciary lawyer based in San Francisco. 
Some executives say laws that set or allow fixed withdrawal rates of 4 percent or more of an account's market value can jeopardize the account's viability. 
"We are in agreement with the power to adjust because it at least gives the trustee flexibility over the years," said Andrew Gallivan, a managing director in charge of trusts and estates for the private-banking unit of Deutsche Bank. "But we don't like laws like New York's unitrust law." 
Once a trustee chooses to set a certain payout percentage, Mr. Gallivan said, there is no other simple way to reverse the decision except by petitioning the court. "Someone is going to look back and say that while 4 percent might have looked good in 2002, it doesn't look so good at some point in the future," Mr. Gallivan said. 
Deutsche Bank contends that a trust that invests 65 percent of its assets in stocks and 35 percent in bonds has an 80 percent chance of maintaining its inflation-adjusted value over 20 years if the annual payout is 3 percent of market value. But if the payout is pushed up to 4 percent, the bank says, the probability of the fund maintaining its purchasing power falls to 40 percent. A payout of 5 percent lowers the probability to a mere 5 percent.
These calculations make four assumptions: a gain of 10 percent a year on stock investments that mirror the Standard & Poor's 500; a return on fixed-income investments of 5 percent a year, an annual inflation rate of 2.5 percent and annual trust fees of 1 percent. 
Charles Aulino, a first vice president for personal financial planning at Glenmede Trust, a trust company in Philadelphia, also questions the ability of an "all weather" payout rate of 4 percent or more to work for either current or future beneficiaries. His suspicions grew after he saw a study in an American Bar Association publication showing what would happen over 30 years to a trust that was invested 60 percent in the S.& P. 500 and 40 percent in government and corporate bonds. The results yielded a range of possible payouts and account balances after 30 years that were too divergent for comfort. 
BUT others regard the automatic payouts in a unitrust approach as having at least one clear advantage over the "power to adjust" approach -- more protection from legal action. A trustee who used his discretion to adjust a trust's distribution every few years would be exposed to lawsuits if current or future beneficiaries did not like the outcome, said Matthew Lynch, the chief fiduciary officer at Wilmington Trust. "That makes trustees really sweat," he said. 
Trust advisers including Mr. Lynch also see circumstances in which payouts of 4 percent or more are acceptable. Michael Kresh, a certified financial planner in Hauppauge, N.Y., has performed his own analysis using return data from the last 30 years and found that a portfolio with an average annual pretax return of 10.5 percent grew even with a yearly payout of 5 percent and adjustment for inflation. 
Mr. Kresh says the return assumptions in Deutsche Bank's calculations may be overly modest. Those assumptions are in keeping, he says, with the investment philosophy of most banks and trust departments. "For them to believe that a 4 percent payout will likely wipe out the trust's purchasing power, that means that they believe that they can't earn a yearly gross return of 7.5 percent before you take out for inflation and fees," he said. "But historically, going back 60 years, we have rates of return that are at least one to two percentage points higher for a portfolio like that."
Watching this debate from the sidelines are income trust beneficiaries, some of whom lead fairly modest lives. A 49-year-old software developer from Chicago believes that his late grandfather would have approved of a change in the terms of the family trust, which was set up in the 1950's when stock and bonds yields were higher. 
"My grandfather wanted our trust to last for three or more generations and he would want to make sure it was invested so it could grow," said the beneficiary who spoke on condition of anonymity. "With a total return trust, you can achieve the aims of the grantor, but in a different way than the fund was originally set up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Wolf, a trust lawyer in Pittsburgh, said new laws meant more decisions for trustees. "Having choices can either be a great strength or a great weakness," he said. (Gary Tramontina for The New York Times) Chart: "Growth With Little Dividend"A $100,000 trust fund opened in 1972 and invested in the S.& P. 500-stock index would have nearly tripled in value by 2001. But after inflation, the income generated by the trust would be less than when it was established. Graph showing the TOTAL PRINCIPAL (Figures in 2001 dollars) since 1975$100,000 in 1972=$423,684 in 2001 dollars Graph showing the ANNUAL INCOME (Figures in 2001 dollars) since 1975. (Source: Ibbotson Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); BONDS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); DIVIDENDS (72%); GOVERNORS (54%) TRUST FUNDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (51%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: KIMELMAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



152 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM; 
For a Onetime Jazz Palace, Nostalgia and Controversy

BYLINE:  By JUDITH MATLOFF 

 BODY:
When it opened in 1925, waiters dispensed drinks from full trays while dancing the Charleston on roller skates. After performing downtown, band leaders like Glenn Miller and Tommy Dorsey would jam at the neo-Gothic building on 135th Street and Seventh Avenue (now Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard). 
 Neighbors lamented when Smalls' Paradise closed in the 1970's. And their hopes withered further six months ago when they learned that the Abyssinian Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization begun by the Abyssinian Baptist Church, planned to transform the building into a public middle and high school (it would be leased to the Board of Education) and rent retail space to an International House of Pancakes. 
 Citing health concerns and history, neighbors objected to the plans, which would add three stories to the structure, saying they feared asbestos would be released during reconstruction. Community Board 10 proposed three alternate sites and in February asked the Landmarks Preservation Commission to protect the building by designating it a landmark.
Claiming that the construction had damaged her house, a neighbor, Marie Littlejohn, won an injunction on March 26 to temporarily stop work on the building. 
"Our chief concern is our health," said Eva M. Anderson, president of the 135th Street Block Association. "We would like to see some tests for asbestos."
She also expressed sadness that a part of Harlem's past would vanish. "They should not destroy the building," she said. "It's history."
Karen A. Phillips, Abyssinian Development's chief executive, said an asbestos review ordered by the Board of Education had been carried out. Two of the alternate locations were not available, she said, and she did not know about the third.
Ms. Phillips said it was not cost effective to run a club on the site and added that the plans would provide space for 700 students enrolled in the overcrowded Thurgood Marshall Academy, two blocks away.
"I understand that a lot of people want Smalls' Paradise back," she said. "I would love that, too. But it's not economically viable. This would benefit many children." JUDITH MATLOFF

GRAPHIC: Photo: When he owned Smalls' Paradise, Wilt Chamberlain put his name on it. (Bettmann/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HISTORY (74%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); INJUNCTIONS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (68%); LITIGATION (66%) NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; RESTAURANTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL HOUSE OF PANCAKES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ABYSSINIAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; SMALLS' PARADISE (NYC NIGHTCLUB); INTERNATIONAL HOUSE OF PANCAKES (CO) 

PERSON: BRADBURY H ANDERSON (55%) MATLOFF, JUDITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



153 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
Trailing the Chief in Pay, Too

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
CHIEF executives are not the only ones who once appeared destined to become endlessly richer. Until a year or so ago, the pay for chief operating officers, chief financial officers, legal counsels and other members of the chief executive's cabinet seemed to know only one direction, too: straight up. For that entire well-heeled group, hefty increases were common, often de rigueur.
 "The trend has always been for the pay of the chief staff functions to move up in lock step with the pay of the C.E.O.," said Frederic W. Cook, head of a compensation consulting firm that bears his name. 
 The numbers bear him out. According to Pearl Meyer & Partners, the total pay package, including stock options, for chief financial officers at 50 large companies averaged $2.92 million by the middle of 2001, up 50 percent from $1.95 million in 1997. Pay for top information technology executives, who are trying to play catch-up with their traditionally better-paid colleagues, rose nearly 50 percent, to $1.33 million from $889,000. Still, while none of those executive-suite occupants could justifiably cry poverty, their pay was far below the annual $10.63 million pay package that chief executives were receiving by last summer. 
Kevin J. Murphy, a professor of finance and business economics at the University of Southern California's Marshall School of Business, studied salary trends of top executives as reported in corporate proxies from 1992 through 2000. He found that the chief executive gets twice as much salary, two to three times as much bonus, and twice as many stock options as the four next-highest-paid executives in the company.
"The ratio just didn't change much over those nine years," Professor Murphy said.
In fact, the rate of increase has slowed for everyone. The Pearl Meyer survey shows that total pay for top legal officers jumped 13 percent in 1999 and 25 percent in 2000, yet rose only 4 percent in 2001. Pay for chief operating officers climbed 18 percent in 1999 and 13 percent in 2000, but only 1 percent in 2001. The pattern was similar to that for chief executives themselves: their pay, the survey showed, jumped 24 percent in 1999 and 14 percent in 2000, only to drop 1 percent last year.
"C.E.O. salary increases have slowed down and bonuses have been puny, and that's been reflected all the way down the executive ranks," said Warren L. Batts, a management professor at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business who serves on the boards of companies including Allstate, Cooper Industries. Sprint and Sears, Roebuck.
Few if any compensation experts have definitive information about current pay packages for that second tier of executives. The recession, combined with disillusionment about the reliability of published profit numbers after accounting scandals at Enron, Xerox, Tyco and others, could have meant skimpier pay packages for everyone. And if the recession is ending, as many economists say, the pressure on salary and bonuses may have already eased.
But many experts believe that the pressure will stay on stock options for reasons that have little to do with the economy. Several expect that companies will soon be forced to take charges against earnings for stock option grants, which could spur boards to scale back the number of options handed out to even the highest-level executives. Even without new rules, several experts say, shareholders are no longer automatically buying the company line that stock options tie management's fortunes to those of investors. Instead, the experts say, many shareholders worry that options provide executives with incentives to manipulate the numbers in ways that lift the share price just long enough for them to exercise the options. 
That will put a particularly strong damper on options for people with hands-on control over financial reports, said Robert M. Bushman, an accounting professor at the Kenan-Flagler Business School of the University of North Carolina. "Everyone's stock options will be under scrutiny," he said, "but options for the C.F.O.'s, who are most responsible for the accounting numbers, will be under really heavy pressure."
Still, for some second-tier executives, the pay packages may keep getting richer even if the board puts the clamps on the chief executive's pay. Executive recruiters say chief information officers, for example, are in huge demand as companies continue to grapple with ways to harness the power of the Internet. They say, too, that conservative chief financial officers with squeaky-clean records have gone way up in value in the wake of well-publicized accounting shenanigans.
"The rise of the information age has made chief information officers invaluable, and the Enron situation has put a huge premium on really good chief financial officers," said Thomas J. Neff, chairman of United States operations for Spencer Stuart, the executive recruiting firm. "There just aren't enough really good C.I.O.'s or C.F.O.'s out there, and market forces still affect compsation more than anything else."
Chief executives also tend to protect the pay of their favored aides. While directors, institutional investors and the news media evaluate chief executives' performance solely on the basis of financial results, chief executives are likely to include qualitative judgments when recommending pay adjustments for those who report directly to them. That alone offers the immediate subordinates a measure of pocketbook protection, consultants say.
"When the C.E.O. gets a big yearly increase, he makes sure that his staff does as well," said Jannice L. Koors, a Pearl Meyer vice president. "When his pay drops, his staff just sees somewhat less generosity."
FOR now, a foolproof way to derive concrete numbers for how much, on average, second-tier executives make remains elusive. Only a self-selected group of companies respond to surveys about executive pay packages. All publicly traded companies list their five highest-paid executives in their proxy statements, but by definition, that cuts lower-paid executives out of any comparative data. 
Chief executives always make the proxy, and chief operating officers almost always do. Chief financial officers who make it to that top-five list are among the highest paid of their professional peers. Even the best-paid general counsels, technology officers and human-resources types rarely rate a mention in the proxy. 
Where executives land in the compensation pecking order also varies widely by industry. For example, the operating heads of a diversified manufacturer's largest businesses are likely to be among the five best-paid executives, squeezing out support people at headquarters. 
Even the limited surveys, however, can offer a relatively good snapshot of comparative pay. The Pearl Meyer firm checked the rise -- and fall -- of top executive pay at 50 large companies, from July 2000 to July 2001. During that year, total pay for top information executives rose 15 percent, it found, while the pay for chief executives and the members of their inner circle remained relatively flat.
But when it came to cash -- bonuses that are supposed to be tied to performance -- the difference between chief executives and their flocks was marked. Chief executives' cash pay fell 14 percent that year, while the cash part of pay for top financial, legal and human resources executives was almost flat. Cash compensation for information officers rose, by almost 8 percent. 
Compensation specialists say that by making the cash part of pay the most volatile, companies are sending important messages to both executives and shareholders.
As Ms. Koors of Pearl Meyer put it, "Reducing or adding cash has a much greater psychological impact than dealing with some hypothetical present value of stock options."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Sharing the Wealth"The average compensation of top executives has been rising quickly until recently, according to a survey of 50 large companies. Graphs show (from 1997-2001*):CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER -- STOCK OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES and TOTAL CASH HEAD OF HUMAN RESOURCES -- STOCK OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES and TOTAL CASH CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER -- STOCK OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES and TOTAL CASH TOP LEGAL EXECUTIVE -- STOCK OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES and TOTAL CASH CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER -- STOCK OPTIONS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVES and TOTAL CASH *Through July 1(Source: Pearl Meyer & Partners)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); SALARY SURVEYS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ACCOUNTING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); SCANDALS (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (50%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (50%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



154 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The Overwhelming Allure of English

BYLINE:  By GREGORY RODRIGUEZ; Gregory Rodriguez is a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan research institute.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A GENERATION of large-scale Latin American immigration has turned Spanish into the unofficial second language of the United States. 
 In early March, Texas held the nation's first-ever gubernatorial debate in Spanish. President Bush never misses an opportunity to show that he, too, can speak the language of Cervantes. Meanwhile, with the press of a button, most automated teller machines can communicate with customers in digital Spanish. From the streets of Miami to Los Angeles, it sometimes feels as if Spanish is giving English a run for its money. 
 But even with this proliferation of Spanish, the United States is still, in the words of one prominent sociologist, a country that is a "language graveyard" for foreign tongues. While many Americans fret over the state of their nation's primary language, there are signs everywhere that English is triumphant both at home and abroad. 
As the United States strengthens its position as the world's economic superpower, the global reach of its popular culture -- and accompanying English language -- only grows. By mid-century, half the planet is expected to be more or less proficient in English, compared to roughly 12 percent now. Why should the American-born children of immigrants be somehow immune to the rising power of the international language of diplomacy and commerce?
Still, there is a growing concern that the rise of Spanish threatens the pre-eminence of English in America. Last month, Iowa became the 27th state to declare English its official language -- the 10th since 1995. While The Des Moines Register dismissed the act as "an embarrassment" perpetrated by a "bunch of yahoos in the Legislature," four out of five Iowans supported it. 
To be sure, the United States' proximity to Latin America combined with the sheer size and continuous nature of Latino migration has changed the nation's cultural landscape. Mass media, modern transportation and the Internet all nurture Spanish in the United States in a way inconceivable to earlier waves of immigrants. And unlike those who came before, today's immigrants can hear their native tongue on morning drive-time radio and watch soap operas from their homeland in the evening. Over the last decade, Spanish-language TV and radio boomed in the nation's largest media markets.
But while immigration has powered the rise of Spanish-language media, a new demographic trend is already shifting the balance in favor of English -- even in the heaviest immigrant media markets in America. In Los Angeles, home to the nation's largest Latino immigrant population, Spanish-language radio stations routinely topped the charts for most of the 1990's. But the growth of Spanish-language radio leveled off in the last few years. For the past nine months, KROQ, an alternative, youth-oriented rock station, has snagged the region's highest overall ratings. It is the first time since 1991 that an English-language station has remained No. 1 for three consecutive ratings periods. A fragmented Spanish-language radio market helped KROQ, but the station has a fundamental trend on its side.
"The Hispanic share of our listenership has increased gradually over the past 10 years," says Trip Reeb, KROQ's general manager. Without actively seeking to broaden its ethnic appeal, the station, long considered "white," now has a 40 percent Latino audience. In fact, a growing number of mainstream English-language radio stations find themselves with sizable Latino audiences. "Right when everyone is discovering the importance of using Spanish, we're seeing Latinos become the backbone of the English-language audience," said Patricia Suarez, president of Suarez/Frommer & Associates, an advertising firm in Pasadena, Calif.
Sometime in the 1990's, demographers say, the foreign-born portion of the Latino population reached its peak. In other words, on the basis of current projections, from now on the immigrant or first generation will be a smaller percentage of Hispanic America. According to Barry Edmonston, the head of the Population Research Center at Portland State University, the fastest-growing segment of the Latino population is the third generation, which is projected to triple by 2040. The second generation, is expected to double. "In every immigrant experience, there is a shift from immigrant culture to ethnic American culture," said Mr. Edmonston. "Hispanics are in the middle of that shift right now."
As American Latinos now become less an immigrant market and more an ethnic market, the equation of Latinos with Spanish is beginning to fade. While slower to make the shift than other immigrant groups, Latino linguistic assimilation is not entirely unlike that of immigrants at the turn of the 20th century. According to the 1990 Census, fully two-thirds of third-generation Latino children spoke only English. And while bilingualism does persist longer within Latino families, particularly along the border region, there is no indication this precludes the use of English as the primary language. 
As in past waves of immigration, the first generation tends to learn only enough English to get by; the second is bilingual; and the third tends to be English-dominant if not monolingual. 
"The big picture is that bilingualism is very difficult to maintain in the U.S., and by the third generation it is extraordinarily difficult to maintain," said Richard Alba, a sociology professor at the State University of New York at Albany. "This is because English is so dominant and so highly rewarded."
It makes sense that the shift to English is being felt first in the youth entertainment market. A two-year-old study by Nielsen Media Research shows that even in households where the adults speak Spanish, younger Latinos prefer to watch television in English. In fact, the preference for English over Spanish becomes more lopsided the younger the demographic. Nickelodeon, the children's cable network, has embraced mainstream Latino characters more than any other network. 
Two years ago, the Walt Disney Company failed in the first large-scale effort by a Hollywood studio to broaden its domestic Latino base. But after simultaneously releasing an English and Spanish-language version of the animated film "The Emperor's New Groove" in 16 theaters, the studio pulled the dubbed version for lack of interest. "The Latino audience clearly came out for the movie, but that audience definitely preferred to see it in English," said Richard W. Cook, chairman of Walt Disney Motion Pictures Group.
Similarly, even as the Latino population exploded, Spanish-language movie theaters in Southern California were closing. In the last half of the 1990's, a company that screens foreign and dubbed films cut the number of its movie houses dedicated to Spanish-speaking audiences by more than half. Like Americans at large, the average Latino moviegoer is a teenager. And the average Latino teenager is American-born and more eager to see a contemporary English-language action film than the art-house fare from contemporary Latin America. In fact, a recent study of the children of immigrants found that by the end of high school 9 in 10 preferred to speak English and 98 percent spoke it proficiently.
AT the same time, Spanish is certainly not going away in the regions of the country that serve as gateways to new immigrants. American-born Latinos can enjoy Latin-American soap operas or old-fashioned boleros on the radio. But like children of immigrants in the past, the descendants of today's newcomers will negotiate their work lives and create art and music in the language in which they are schooled. While bilingual education is often blamed for the persistence of Spanish in the United States, most such programs are designed to shift the child into English-speaking classes within three or four years. In addition, a few elementary school years in Spanish do not give students adult-level proficiency. Even in Miami, the nation's quintessential bilingual city, international corporations complain of a shortage of fully bilingual workers to conduct business with Latin Americans in professional Spanish. 
Thus, despite the obvious benefits of bilingualism in a globalizing world, English still overwhelms the languages that immigrants bring to these shores. Not unlike previous large waves of immigrants, Latinos are introducing words and phrases of their native language into mainstream English. But within generations of arriving in America, Latinos eager to read the classic works of Cervantes or Gabriel Garcia Marquez will most likely do so through English translations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (92%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REFUGEES (73%); TRENDS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); YOUTH MARKET (70%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (65%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (65%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; SPANISH LANGUAGE; ENGLISH LANGUAGE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) RODRIGUEZ, GREGORY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (91%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



155 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Kroger Sees a Shadow Lurking Over Aisle 3

BYLINE:  By LEAH BETH WARD 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
FOR years, the Kroger Company enjoyed the top spot in the grocery business, increasing sales through acquisitions and reaping the savings that come with size. The company rewarded investors with strong earnings growth and steady stock appreciation.
 Through acquisitions of independent neighborhood markets, convenience stores like Loaf 'N Jug and the popular food and general merchandiser Fred Meyer Inc. in the Northwest, Kroger amassed an army of store formats. It has become not only a national retailer of food, jewelry, clothing and gasoline but also a manufacturer with 42 food processing plants that turn out private brands aimed at shoppers across the income spectrum. 
 Along the way, Kroger executives asserted that the company was closer than ever to customers and in no danger from the entry of Wal-Mart Stores into the food business. 
But Kroger's days of comfort appear gone for now. Kroger executives no longer view Wal-Mart as only a remote threat.
While Kroger spent more than a year completing the $8 billion deal for Fred Meyer of Portland, Ore. -- the deal was not final until the end of 1999 -- Wal-Mart Supercenters gained a huge price advantage, selling groceries 30 percent cheaper, on average, according to the Boston Consulting Group, a research firm.
Kroger is still the nation's No. 1 grocery chain, with estimated sales this year of $50.7 billion, up from $49.9 billion in 2001, according to Supermarket News, a trade publication. But grocery sales at Wal-Mart Supercenters are increasing at the fastest rate in the industry. They are expected to reach $20.1 billion this year, up from $17.1 billion in 2001, and are on a trajectory that could vault Wal-Mart from its current No. 9 position in groceries to No. 1 by 2005, according to an analysis by Boston Consulting. 
To lure shoppers back, Kroger cut prices in December, sacrificing near-term sales and earnings growth in a shift that surprised Wall Street. It sounded like the start of a price war, and the stock prices of grocery companies fell. Kroger shares are now trading at $22, down from $25.85 before the change was announced.
"They said, in effect, 'We're putting on our boxing gloves and we're going to start beating up the competition,' " said Meredith Adler, a retail analyst at Lehman Brothers.
It is too early to tell whether Kroger's move will work. The company's chief executive, Joseph A. Pichler, said the brutal competition in the business had only intensified. "In 22 years, I've never seen anything like it," Mr. Pichler, 62, said in a recent interview at Kroger's headquarters here.
Kroger is reducing prices as the economy is starting to strengthen. The upturn could soften the impact on Kroger if its shoppers start frequenting the high-price deli counter instead of the low-price grocery aisles.
But some analysts say Kroger's timing could be wrong. Bargain hunters, the thinking goes, might skip the new Kroger prices to find cachet with a discount. That is the appeal of retailers like Target, which has built 37 SuperTarget stores with what it calls "unique, upscale and differentiated" grocery offerings and high-margin impulse-purchase products like vases designed by the architect Michael Graves.
Not for nothing do customers refer to Target using the mock-French pronunciation "tar-ZHAY."
Another wild card for Kroger is Kmart, which is reorganizing under bankruptcy protection after having fallen victim to Wal-Mart's dominance in the deep-discount arena. The closure of 284 of Kmart's 2,114 stores could provide an opportunity for Kroger and others to strengthen their market share. But Kmart, which entered the grocery business a few years ago through its Super Kmart centers, could start its own price war. "Kmart now has breathing space that will allow them to reconfigure more as a supercenter with potent price cuts," said Mark Husson, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. 
Then there is the main "mart" -- Wal-Mart, of Bentonville, Ark. It plans to add 185 supercenters this year for a total of 1,138. Moreover, Wal-Mart's incursion poses a stronger threat to Kroger, which has about 2,345 food stores, than it does to Albertson's, now No. 2 in grocery sales, or Safeway Inc., at No. 3
Neil Currie, a retail analyst at UBS Warburg, said Wal-Mart Supercenters compete on roughly 55 percent of Kroger's turf, compared with 40 percent of Albertson's and 22 percent of Safeway's. "The question for Kroger is: Is it too late?" Mr. Currie said.
Outwardly, at least, Kroger shows no sign of capitulating. Its offerings at the Queen City Center in Cincinnati, for example, include the decidedly hip -- sushi here, organic toothpaste there -- beside Kroger-brand pork and beans. Shoppers can peruse the latest John Grisham novel or, as some did on a recent day, listen to an in-store broadcast about preparing portobello mushrooms. It's a far cry from the "Let's go Krogering" jingle that Midwestern baby boomers grew up with.
The company has reinvented itself under difficult circumstances before. In 1988 -- the year that Wal-Mart introduced its supercenter concept -- Kroger repulsed a takeover attack from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, the buyout firm. The scuffle left Kroger bruised by debt but more efficient. It remodeled stores, updated computer systems and expanded its private labels.
Kroger's price-cutting harks back to its roots in the 1880's, when its founder, Barney Kroger, defined making money as "giving full value for money received."
Some say Kroger strayed perilously from that tenet in recent years. "It will be very difficult for Kroger to catch up with Wal-Mart" in low prices, said Henry Vogel, vice president of Boston Consulting.
WHILE acknowledging that Wal-Mart has a "powerful format," Mr. Pichler contends that the average grocery shopper prefers to stay close to home. Most Kroger stores are within 2.5 miles of their customers, while Wal-Mart Supercenters draw from farther away. That is a drive most shoppers do not want to make, contends Mr. Pichler, who is known to talk at length with customers while shopping at a neighborhood Kroger.
Busy shoppers, he said, want groceries, razor blades and video rentals in one place. They also want the option of the one-time purchase -- say, computer printers, desk lamps or home-office furnishings. "We're not going after anybody," he said. "We're going after customers."
Kroger is also banking on shopper intolerance for Wal-Martish inconveniences, like navigating multiple aisles under one big roof, or traversing more than 160,000 square feet from potatoes to patio furniture.
"I like the way they are dealing with Wal-Mart," Ms. Adler of Lehman Brothers said. "They tell customers: 'We aren't Wal-Mart. Do you really want to struggle with that superstore experience?' I think that message has been working reasonably well." 
In the 22 markets where supercenters of various ownership are major competitors of Kroger, the company said, its share rose in 13 last year, fell in eight and remained unchanged in one. The numbers are less flattering when Kroger is compared only with the 13 Wal-Mart supercenters in those 22 markets. Viewed that way, Kroger's share increased in four, fell in eight and remained unchanged in one. 
Wal-Mart, not allowing Kroger to claim its neighborhood advantage unchallenged, is developing its own Neighborhood Markets. They are traditional-sized supermarkets that use Wal-Mart's corporate buying power but are in areas where customers would have to travel far to shop at a supercenter.
Some consultants say Fred Meyer could be the weapon that Kroger needs.
But others doubt that any retailer can take on Wal-Mart. Fred Meyer cannot catapult Kroger into the supercenter league, said Stephen Chick, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Chase. "It's Target-like, and it's a vehicle, but it hasn't been used to its potential," Mr. Chick said.
For some shoppers, at least, Kroger and Fred Meyer came together at a good time. Irene and Ed Walters of Vancouver, Wash., say they are finding better prices and service at their neighborhood "Freddy's" -- as the chain is known -- under Kroger management. 
"There are more people out on the floor now to help since that big outfit back East bought them," Mr. Walters, a retired surveyor for the Bonneville Power Administration, said, referring to Kroger.
But if their local Wal-Mart added a grocery section, would the Walters comparison-shop? 
"Why, of course," Mrs. Walters said. "They're so reasonable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph A. Pichler, Kroger's chief executive, at a Cincinnati store, said competition had become fierce. "In 22 years, I've never seen anything like it," he said. (Mike Simons for The New York Times) Chart: "Race to the Checkout"With an aggressive expansion into the grocery business, Wal-Mart is closing the gap with the No. 1 grocer, Kroger. Graph shows annual grocery sales in 2000 dollars stats for Kroger, Albertson's, Wal-Mart, Safeway, and Ahold USA since 1990. (Source: The Boston Consulting Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); PRIVATE LABELS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); BOXING (72%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); FOOD MFG (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); INTERVIEWS (63%) FOOD; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); KROGER CO (93%); FRED MEYER INC (83%); LOAF 'N JUG/MINI MART INC (58%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (55%); SUPERMARKET NEWS (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: KROGER CO; WAL-MART STORES INC 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); KR (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (93%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (93%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (83%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (83%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%) SIC5411 GROCERY STORES; 

PERSON: WARD, LEAH BETH; PICHLER, JOSEPH A 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (75%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



156 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
What to DoWhen There's No Up or Down

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
HOW to make money in a sideways stock market? 
 That is the question of the moment for investors. After a series of starts and stalls, most broad stock indexes are down for the year. The Standard & Poor's 500 has lost 2.2 percent and the Nasdaq composite is down 9.3 percent. While the Dow Jones industrials are up 2.5 percent and the Russell 2000 is up 2 percent, those gains are nobody's idea of great. 
 To be sure, sideways is better than down. But having endured the bumpy ride down the back side of the stock price peak of March 2000, many investors want the straight-up days to return. 
One stock market seer who has been more right than wrong recently thinks that the sideways days are here to stay. James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, reckons that lackluster stock returns could last several years. 
Two things are keeping a lid on stock prices, Mr. Paulsen said. First, earnings growth is not likely to rebound significantly in the coming quarters and, second, current valuations remain relatively high, allowing no room for an expansion of price-to-earnings multiples.
Earnings will be sluggish, Mr. Paulsen expects, because there is little growth in sales and few costs to be cut. "A decade ago, we had 40 years of bloat that could be cut and we could invoke a new thing called technology to drive margins," he said. "So earnings growth is going to get caught at about the rate of sales growth, which has been 5 percent a year or less."
Examining the returns of stocks and bonds since 1925, Mr. Paulsen found that when the market multiple has fallen below 18, annualized returns have averaged 17 percent. When the market traded above 18 times earnings, returns have averaged 2.5 percent annually. "Where we're operating right now suggests very low returns in the stock market, mid-single digits," he said. The S.& P. 500 is trading at 20 times next year's projected earnings.
The good news is that inflation will remain tame, interest rate increases should be muted and P/E multiples may not have to contract significantly. "I don't really look for a disaster or a collapse but a prolonged feeling of doldrums," Mr. Paulsen said.
If such a period unfolds, a portfolio heavily skewed to bonds is likely to outperform stocks. But while some investors may be tempted by the higher yields that junk bonds now offer, Mr. Paulsen advises sticking with a portfolio of high-grade issues. United States Treasury bonds with maturities greater than 10 years should dominate the portfolio; high-grade corporate bonds and municipals should make up the rest. 
Treasuries that mature in 2012 yield 5.2 percent and those coming due in 20 years yield 5.83 percent. Mr. Paulsen says after-tax yields on Treasuries stand at twice the average since 1920.
BECAUSE there will be periods when stocks make good short-term moves, Mr. Paulsen thinks equities should remain a core holding, with a recommended weight of 45 percent. Stocks with high dividends are particularly attractive, he said, and may rise as investors realize that the old reliable growth stocks are not reliable anymore. Shares in utilities and the big integrated oil companies are good choices for their dividends. 
International shares are another piece of Mr. Paulsen's portfolio. He believes that the dollar will weaken over the next several years, translating to better performance in foreign companies' stocks. These should be bought through mutual funds, for low cost and diversification. 
"Since 1982, investors have learned to buy and hold, buy on dips, stay the course in equities," Mr. Paulsen said. "But the strategies that worked well in the past may be disappointing. It seems we are at a crossroads and going forward, the stock market's performance may prove far more choppy."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Playing It Safe"Inflation-adjusted yields on the 30-year bond. Graph shows figures for 30-year bond since 1980. (Source: Wells Fargo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; PAULSEN, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



157 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
When Small Funds Aren't Necessarily Better Funds

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to mutual funds, many investors think that small is beautiful. New research suggests that they are wrong.
 By "small," I am not referring to funds that invest in stocks of smaller companies, the so-called small-cap stock funds, but instead to funds that are themselves small, having relatively few assets under management. Many people believe that such funds enjoy a performance advantage over the largest ones. 
 The belief stems in part from the relative nimbleness of smaller funds. It is difficult, for example, for a large fund to buy or sell a sizable position in some stocks without moving their prices up or down significantly. In some cases, it would be downright impossible for a big fund to establish a position that it would consider worthwhile.
Imagine yourself in the shoes of Robert Stansky, manager of the Fidelity Magellan fund, which has $78 billion under management. His largest current holding is General Electric, of which Magellan owns $3.7 billion in shares. That amount exceeds the market capitalization of even the largest company in the Russell 2000 index, a benchmark for smaller stocks, and it is greater than the market caps of about half the companies in the Russell 1000, a large-cap benchmark.
So when it comes to around 2,500 of the 3,000 companies in these two Russell indexes, there is no way Mr. Stansky could buy as large a position as his stake in G.E., no matter how much he likes it. (By the way, these 3,000 companies represent more than 98 percent of the United States equity market.)
Even among many of the 500 remaining companies, Mr. Stansky would still have difficulty buying a position as large as his G.E. holding. The average daily trading volume of many of these 500 companies is but a small fraction of $4 billion, so any attempt to add such a large position would so distort the market as to make the trade untenable.
Mr. Stansky could still establish smaller positions in many of these companies. But he would face a trade-off: the smaller the stake in a given company, the smaller its potential contribution to his fund's profitability.
Small mutual funds, in contrast, are at a significant competitive advantage. Consider a fund that has $25 million under management -- which would hardly be the smallest fund in the universe. That level of assets, however, is just 0.03 percent of Magellan's assets. Virtually no publicly traded stock would be beyond the reach of a fund that small.
The ability to trade in small-cap stocks lets the smallest funds exploit the so-called small-cap effect -- the historical tendency of small-cap stocks to outperform large ones. Since 1926, on average, that performance difference has been about 1.2 percentage points a year, according to Ibbotson Associates. To qualify as a small-cap stock, under the definition of Ibbotson and others, a company must have a market capitalization of less than $200 million.
For years, the data confirmed the theory that small funds perform better than large ones. One study, for example, found that for every doubling in a fund's size, investors could expect a decrease of 21 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, in annualized performance. That adds up to a big difference, especially when considering that the largest funds are many times bigger than the smallest.
This is where the conventional wisdom stood until the late 1990's, when a fatal flaw was found in the historical comparisons of large and small funds. The discovery was made by Mark M. Carhart, then an assistant professor of finance and business economics at the University of Southern California and now co-head of quantitative research at Goldman Sachs Asset Management. Mr. Carhart found that the previous studies had used historical databases that ignored funds that had gone out of business.
That omission was significant, and for two reasons: Smaller funds go out of business much more often than larger ones, and funds that fold tend to be poorer performers than those that survive. Upon correcting this so-called survivorship bias, Mr. Carhart could detect no systematic difference in the performances of large and small funds. (His research has circulated for several years as a working paper: http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract-id=36091).
To understand his findings, consider that the average small fund is riskier than the average large one -- so risky, in fact, that there is a much greater chance that it will lose enough money to force it out of business. After all, when you bet aggressively, you have higher odds of winning big -- and losing big. On average, you end up no better off than you would have by going with a larger fund.
So where did conventional wisdom go wrong? Why can't the average small fund capitalize on its abilities to trade with lower transaction costs and to invest in smaller-cap stocks?
One major reason is now known: The average smaller fund spends a greater percentage of assets on administrative costs, advisers and managers, and on marketing costs like 12b-1 fees. In fact, according to research conducted several years after Mr. Carhart's paper, the smallest 25 percent of funds have average expense ratios that are 94 basis points higher than those of the largest 25 percent of funds. (This research was conducted by John M. R. Chalmers of the University of Oregon, Roger M. Edelen of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and Gregory B. Kadlec of Virginia Tech.)
Even with a higher expense ratio, a small fund still has fewer dollars to spend for luring a top money manager and buying the best research. To be sure, a superstar manager and expensive research do not guarantee success. But Mr. Carhart's finding suggests that they generally help.
Yet another factor diminishes the theoretical advantage of the smallest funds. The small-cap effect, it seems, is not as exploitable in practice as theory suggests, even by the smallest funds. Recent research by three finance professors -- Joel L. Horowitz of Northwestern, Tim Loughran of Notre Dame and N. E. Savin of the University of Iowa -- has found that the small-cap effect is being driven almost completely by the tiniest companies. 
How tiny? The three professors found that if companies with market capitalizations of $5 million or less are eliminated from the record, the small-cap effect disappears. That is devastating to the small-cap effect because it is virtually impossible to make money by investing in such companies -- they hardly ever trade, and their bid-ask spreads are prohibitive.
The bottom line is this: In choosing a mutual fund, you should not take its own size into account. Instead, search for a fund that has beaten the market over many years. If it happens to be a small fund, so be it.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Economy Through Scale"The bigger the mutual fund, the smaller the expenses investors pay, according to a study. Expenses, including transaction costs, as a percentage of assets under management Graph shows the SIZE OF FUNDS BY ASSETS (Smallest 25 percent to the largest 25 percent) (Sources: John M. R. Chalmers, University of Oregon; Roger M. Edelen, the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania; Gregory B. Kadlec, Virginia Tech)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); BONDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (55%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (59%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



158 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
The War on Terrorism Takes Aim at Crime

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN South America, the leftist Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, controls lucrative coca fields that finance a terror campaign against the government. In the Philippines, the Abu Sayyaf group kidnaps people to sustain its separatist dreams. In Sri Lanka, the violent Tamil Tigers have a fleet of stealthy vessels for smuggling contraband across the Indian Ocean. In Uzbekistan, heavily armed Islamic militants run a protection racket for opium traffickers. And before the fall of the Taliban, Al Qaeda was thought to profit from Afghanistan's thriving poppy trade.
 Across the globe, the lines between international crime syndicates and terrorist organizations have become impossibly blurred. And recognition of that reality has spurred Washington to begin revamping its strategy for the war on terror. 
 Informants for the Drug Enforcement Administration are being enlisted to dig up intelligence on terrorist cells. F.B.I. agents are working with C.I.A. operatives to track down criminal as well as terrorist cells. A federally financed anti-drug campaign links drug use to supporting terrorism. And the military, long accustomed to preparing for battles against large conventional armies, is rushing to retrain its allies -- and itself -- to fight small conflicts against borderless groups that engage in crime even as they commit acts of terror. 
"Everything we could do to put those people out of business would be good for our purposes," said Adm. Dennis Blair, the commander in chief of the United States Pacific Command. 
Links to criminal activity have existed for as long as terrorists have been around. But analysts say those links have grown since the end of the cold war, when many insurgent groups lost their state sponsors and turned to criminal enterprises to finance their activities.
Hence the more expansive approach, which on one level seems a triumph of common sense. If terrorists who threaten America buy their weapons, move their people and hide their money by hiring criminal syndicates, why not go after those subcontractors? And if insurgent groups are financing terror by assisting drug traffickers, why not go after both? It would be killing two birds with one stone, administration officials say.
"The illegal drug production that undermines America's culture also funds terror and erodes democracies across the globe," Asa Hutchinson, the drug enforcement administrator, said in a speech last week. "They all represent a clear and present danger to our national security."
But expanding the global war on terrorism to include a global war on crime has also raised sharp questions about whether the United States has the political support, know-how and resources to attack such a large and complicated set of new enemies. Many criminal syndicates have slyly evaded the law for decades, usually with the help of corrupt local officials. Can Americans suddenly expect to undermine those groups while also waging war in Afghanistan, trying to contain Saddam Hussein, keeping Israelis and Palestinians from each others' throats and sending troops to places like the Philippines, Yemen and Georgia?
On Capitol Hill, many lawmakers are not so sure. Some are already drawing analogies between Colombia -- where the administration wants to expand its military assistance for fighting drug traffickers to include fighting the FARC -- and Vietnam. "This could be a real quagmire," said Representative Ike Skelton, the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee. "And our commanders are already saying they don't have enough resources to meet their missions."
Kurt Campbell, a former Clinton administration official who is a director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a nonpartisan policy group in Washington, said Mr. Bush runs the risk of diluting his antiterror campaign by continuously expanding its targets. First there was Al Qaeda, then the axis of evil -- Iraq, Iran and North Korea -- and now there are drug traffickers and other criminal syndicates.
"If you expand the definition of what you're trying to do, you blur your mission and you start to lose support," Mr. Campbell said. "You start to have questions about what exactly are we concerned with. Is it Islamic fundamentalism? Is it states that are trying to acquire weapons of mass destruction? Is it states that support drug running and then maybe do things that aid terrorists? Each is important, but can all be the focus of your attention?"
STILL, analysts who have studied international criminal syndicates say the Bush administration is right to recognize the connections between criminal groups and terrorists, which they lump together under the rubric of "transnational threats." 
The FARC, which lost funding from Cuba after the fall of the Soviet Union, is a good example of how the end of the cold war opened the way to more criminal activity. Having initially made money by "taxing" local drug dealers, the FARC began running drugs itself in the 1990's. Today, American officials say the group has become so corrupted by drug profits that its political goals have become secondary. Similar cycles of violence exist in the Balkans, Central Asia and Africa, where criminal enterprises -- from stealing oil to smuggling diamonds -- have sustained guerrilla warriors long after their political goals have faded.
But even as they applaud the Bush administration's new steps, analysts say the administration has yet to grapple with the long-term problems posed by stateless groups -- problems that could prove even more intractable than those presented by Iraq or North Korea.
Louise I. Shelley, director of the Transnational Crime and Corruption Center at American University in Washington, said criminal groups provide vital services and generate economic opportunity in many regions where government is weak. Attacking the criminal organizations without replacing their socially useful services could antagonize communities whose help America needs in fighting terrorists, she said.
"In some places, criminal groups provide food, provide gas, run the trade and mediate the conflicts," Dr. Shelley said. "They are de facto governments. But if you demonize them, you are not going to have the local community behind you."
Military analysts also said that traditional military approaches to fighting war must change if the United States is going to be effective in attacking borderless enemies. The concept of deterrence, for example, could quickly become obsolete if the enemy has no country, no capital, no standing army, no obvious "centers of gravity" worth destroying. But so far, the analysts say, the Pentagon hasn't quite figured out how to deter groups that seem to have nothing to lose. It is a problem common to terror groups and criminal bands, whether they engage in both crime and terror or not.
"Trying to fight these groups can be like trying to pin down a piece of mercury," said Thomas M. Sanderson, deputy director for the Transnational Threats Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "Yet we're still trying to box something that can't be boxed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Poppy growing in Afghanistan is an old trade that is thought to have helped Al Qaeda. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (96%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); NARCOTERRORISM (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); OPIUM (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); EXTORTION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); DRUG POLICY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); RELIGION (56%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; TERRORISM; ORGANIZED CRIME 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); ABU SAYYAF GROUP (84%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (91%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%) DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%); DENNIS BLAIR (52%) HUTCHINSON, ASA (ADMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SRI LANKA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



159 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Accountants Are in Demand. Go Figure.

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
 The economic slowdown has meant hard times for recent college graduates, who have had job offers delayed or rescinded as companies try to cut costs. In particular, jobs at consulting firms are scarcer, according to a survey of more than 90 schools by the National Association of Colleges and Employers. 
While consulting firms ranked first in job offers in early 2001, they fell to 11th place in 2002, and the average salary offered decreased to $43,070 from $47,893. 
 The top employers were accounting and engineering companies. The federal government was also high on the list and was expected to remain there as more of its work force retires, according to Marilyn Mackes, executive director of the association.
 KATHLEEN O'BRIEN

GRAPHIC: Graphs show: RESTAURANT SALESYear-over-year change, weekly PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSTotals in thousands, weekly NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change, weekly ONLINE SALESDollars in millions, weekly HOUSING PRICESMonthly change in consumer index HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESFour-week moving average, daily for New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago (Sources: National Association of Colleges and Employers; NPDFoodworld restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics housing prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy ) Chart: RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 1 Accounting servicesAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: $39,872RANK IN 2001: 3 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 2) Engineering servicesAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 44,934RANK IN 2001: 2 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 3) Educational servicesAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 29,805RANK IN 2001: 10 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 4) Rental, leasing servicesAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 29,737RANK IN 2001: N.A. RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 5) Petroleum, coal productsAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 51,685RANK IN 2001: 12 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 6) Retail, wholesale tradeAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 33,700RANK IN 2001: 11 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 7) Federal governmentAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 40,355RANK IN 2001: 15 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 8) State, local governmentAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 35,598RANK IN 2001: 17 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 9) Financial servicesAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 39,078RANK IN 2001: 8 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 10) AerospaceAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 50,072RANK IN 2001: 9 RANK OF EMPLOYERS IN 2002, BY NUMBER OF JOB OFFERS: 11) Consulting servicesAVERAGE STARTING SALARY: 43,070RANK IN 2001: 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); RANKINGS (85%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%) LABOR; CONSULTANTS; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: O'BRIEN, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



160 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Jay Gatsby, Dreamer, Criminal, Jazz Age Rogue, Is a Man for Our Times

BYLINE:  By ADAM COHEN 

 BODY:
The image of Jay Gatsby as a mysterious Prohibition-era bootlegger is so fixed in our minds that it's startling, rereading "The Great Gatsby" today, to realize how he was actually making his money in the end. When the narrator, Nick Carraway, picks up the phone in the final pages of the novel, he accidentally hears a message intended for Gatsby. "Young Parke's in trouble," the caller says urgently. "They picked him up when he handed the bonds over the counter." Not illegal liquor, it turns out, but shady corporate debt. If Gatsby were around today, he would probably be in the upper echelons of Enron.
 Gatsby's powerful ability to speak to our times is driven home by the latest issue of Book magazine, in which a panel of literary experts, asked to name the Top 100 fictional characters since 1900, decisively chose F. Scott Fitzgerald's jazz-era rogue as No. 1. There are purer characters on the list, like Atticus Finch (No. 7), the crusading small-town lawyer at the heart of "To Kill a Mockingbird," and more accessible ones, like Holden Caulfield (No. 2), the teenage Everyman of "The Catcher in the Rye." But it is the elusive Gatsby, the cynical idealist, who embodies America in all of its messy glory. 
 Gatsby has, as a television talk-show psychologist would put it, all of our issues. Long before there were late-night Abdominizer infomercials, Gatsby was a fervent believer in the gospel of self-improvement. One of the most telling glimpses into his psyche is provided by his boyhood schedule, sadly produced by his father after his death. It could have been torn from the pages of O: The Oprah Magazine, or Men's Health -- Rise at 6 a.m., "dumbbell exercise and wall-scaling," work, and "study needed inventions." On the same page, the young Gatsby had scrawled his "General Resolves," which included, "Save $5.00 crossed out $3.00 per week," and, "No more smokeing or chewing."
In the great American tradition of self-invention, Gatsby decided at an early age precisely who he wanted to be. He dropped his father's clunky, foreign-sounding name, Gatz, in favor of Gatsby, and James for the swankier Jay. A poor runaway from the Midwest, Gatsby has worked his way up to a sprawling Long Island mansion, where he gives boozy, jazz-filled parties for New York high society and drunken flappers. He dresses lavishly, claims to have been born to money and refers to everyone with the upper-crust affectation "old sport."
Beneath the carefree exterior, however, Gatsby understands just how sad and dark a place the world can be. Fitzgerald, who was writing in the same bleak post-World War I literary environment that produced T. S. Eliot's "The Waste Land," suggests that Gatsby served in the carnage-filled battlefields of France. When Gatsby returned from the war, he made his fortune the old-fashioned way: he stole it. Gatsby's partner in crime, quite literally, was the sinister Meyer Wolfsheim, the man who fixed the 1919 World Series and wore cufflinks made of human molars. 
In today's increasingly disturbing world, home to Al Qaeda cells and suicide bombers, offshore sham partnerships and document-shredding auditors, the grim backdrop against which Gatsby's life plays out feels depressingly right. It's no wonder that the last "Great Gatsby" revival was in 1974, tied to the release of the movie starring Robert Redford, in a country shaken to its core by the revelations of Watergate.
What saves Gatsby, and what makes him a masterful literary achievement rather than a two-bit criminal, is the driving force behind his well-orchestrated rise: that years earlier, he was a poor boy, jilted by the most popular young girl in Louisville in favor of a wealthier suitor, and he has spent a lifetime working to get her back. The callow Daisy, whose voice is "full of money," may not be a worthy goal. But Gatsby's longing for her, and his willingness to sell his soul to pursue her, are the purest things in this sordid tale.
The most important image in "The Great Gatsby" is the color green. It is the color of America, Fitzgerald tells us, when the Dutch first landed here; the color of money, certainly; and the color that says "go," that most American of injunctions. At the edge of Daisy's dock, famously, there is a flashing green light, which Gatsby can see from his mansion. When Nick first encounters Gatsby, he is alone, holding his hands up toward that light, the bright, shining embodiment of his ideal of Daisy.
The novelist Sue Miller, one of the judges in the Book magazine contest, explained that Gatsby was "an American dreamer of a certain crass kind." Gatsby undeniably has his crass qualities. But the emphasis should be on the American dreamer. Jay Gatsby's world-weary idealist, who knows how messed up life can be but still soldiers on in pursuit of his ideals, is the great American type. It showed up again in Rick Blaine of "Casablanca," who seemed to have bitterly put himself on the sidelines but ultimately couldn't stop himself from doing his part for the anti-Nazi cause.
And it is the United States today. We are a land of Enron and Global Crossing, and of the reformist impulse to rewrite our securities and pension laws. We have the corruption of the campaign finance system and Beltway lobbying, and a new campaign finance law, passed to try to clean it up. And we are the nation that after the debacles of Vietnam and Somalia, still views itself as having a calling to wage war on terrorism worldwide. Americans have some of Holden Caulfield's allergy to phoniness, and of Atticus Finch's unidimensional moral fervor. But mainly we are Gatsby, flawed in a flawed world, but unable to resist the pull of the green light. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (77%); TRENDS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); BONDS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (70%); ETHICS (68%); INFOMERCIALS (64%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (64%); MEN (63%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; EDITORIALS; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ETHICS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: FITZGERALD, F SCOTT (1896-1940); COHEN, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: GREAT GATSBY, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



161 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Export Power Drifts Across the China Sea 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: MIKAWA, Japan 

 BODY:
About 35 miles down Highway 1 from the auto factories in Toyota, the docks at this seaport are covered with thousands of new cars, many wrapped in plastic for a foreign voyage. But in a twist, all are imports, made in Europe or Mexico.
 After two decades of unbroken trade surpluses, Japan now seems on track to see its surplus melt by the middle of this decade. Last year, its merchandise trade surplus plummeted by 38 percent, hitting 1983 levels. This year, for the first time, Japan is expected to earn more money from investments overseas than from exports of manufactured goods. 
 Also this year, China, fueled by a young and ambitious population, is expected to displace Japan as the biggest exporter to the United States. Only a decade ago, Japan exported to the United States four times as much as China.
"A Nation in Retirement" was how Ronald Bevacqua, a Japan economist for Commerz Securities, titled a report highlighting Japan's gradual shift from a nation of producers to one of coupon clippers. On bookstore shelves, "Japan as Number One" has been replaced by a new title: "Arthritic Japan."
"As more production is moved overseas and Japan opens to imports, and as an aging population leaves Japan with more consumers and few producers, the trade surplus looks set for a structural decline," Mr. Bevacqua wrote. With growth prospects poor at home, Japanese investors have increasingly looked overseas, largely to foreign bonds. Japan now has $2 trillion in offshore assets, the equivalent of half of the nation's gross domestic product.
With the yen weakening in recent months, Japan's eroding trade surplus reflects a wider loss of competitiveness. Chinese factory workers not only work at 5 percent of Japanese wage levels, but they are narrowing the quality gap.
Violating a decades-old taboo, Japanese vehicle companies are starting to sell in Japan vehicles made by their Asian subsidiaries. This year, following the lead of Japanese car-parts makers that export back to Japan from lower-wage countries, Isuzu is to import trucks from China, and Fuji Heavy Industries is to import minivans from Thailand. Toyota plans to phase out pickup production in Japan by 2004, concentrating its Asian production in Thailand.
In one year, Japan still imports fewer cars than it exports in a month. But here in Japan's industrial heartland, a photograph of a transoceanic car carrier disgorging imported Volkswagens provoked a bout of insecurity recently at the union headquarters for Toyota, Japan's largest car maker.
"When I see this picture, I naturally think, I wish we could make all these cars and give jobs to our workers," said Masaki Oka, an official with the Federation of All Toyota Workers' Unions.
In the face of statistics showing the hollowing of Japanese industry, he took comfort in Toyota's commitment to supply the Japanese market with Japanese-made cars, producing at least three million cars in Japan for the foreseeable future.
But he admitted that union membership was declining and that the number of temporary workers was increasing at Toyota, Japan's largest exporter.
With China expected to displace Japan in 20 years as Asia's largest economy, economists see Japan's trade future defined by its proximity to China -- one day by freighter, one hour by air cargo. 
From Hong Kong, Andy Xie, Morgan Stanley's Asia economist, predicted that Japanese automakers would go the way of Japanese appliance makers, assembling products offshore for export. Predicting that Japanese vehicle production would drop by one-third during this decade, he said, "It makes no sense to make cars in Japan, when you can make them in Dalian, China, which is less than a day away by boat."
The shift in capital across the East China Sea is striking. In contrast to China's growing industrial investment and production, Japan's industrial production dropped 8 percent last year, receding to 1987 levels. 
Japan's capital spending fell 14.5 percent in the last quarter of 2001.
This year, Japan's manufacturing and capital spending are expected to drop another 8 percent. In the fiscal year that ended March 31, Japan suffered an estimated 20,000 corporate failures, the second-highest postwar level.
To compete with China, Japanese employers are cutting wages or using temporary workers at lower salaries. Here at Toyota, for the first time in memory, the annual spring wage negotiations ended with a pay freeze after management rejected the union's request for a token raise of $2 a week.
Much as seemingly endless streams of Japanese cars disembarking at California ports heralded economic shifts for the United States in the 1980's, the long rows of imported Volkswagens here are the visible tips of an import iceberg that is bruising Japan's high-wage industry.
On April 1, the Haier Group, China's largest consumer electronics maker, started marketing its refrigerators and appliances throughout Japan in an alliance with Sanyo Electric. Similarly, the TCL Holdings Company, China's largest television maker, is seeking a distributor partnership for the Japanese market.
"In China," Mr. Xie said, "you can make a good quality, modern sedan for sale in Japan at $5,000," about half the price of low-price cars made here. "Honda already has plans to move all its parts production to China."
He predicted that Japan could now expect the manufacturing portion of its economy to drop by half, hitting 10 percent in 2020. The American portion has fallen to 15 percent.
At the local office of Hello Work, the government's unemployment agency, Koji Inagaki, a 25-year-old unemployed security guard, gave a free trade analysis that could just as easily have come from economists in the high-rise office towers in Tokyo.
"It is a natural flow, companies shifting their operations overseas in order to compete, they have no other choice," he said after scrolling through job openings on a computer terminal here. "Japan should create expensive, high-quality products with great technology, great functions."
Looking ahead, Japan is trying to identify where its economy can retain an edge over China's.
"To some extent, the Japanese economy will be hollowing out in manufacturing," conceded Noboru Hatakeyama, the chairman of the Japan External Trade Organization, a government trade promotion agency known as Jetro. "But we can develop service sectors, just as the U.S. did." With the second-largest pool of patents after the United States, Japan may pursue computer games, high-precision machinery, and research and development for industrial technology. Japan may increasingly become a headquarters country where the design and marketing is done, while the manufacturing is performed elsewhere.
With Japan's trade picture changing fast, Jetro returns this year to its original mission: promoting Japanese exports. Since the huge trade surpluses of the mid-1980's, the agency's primary focus had been opening Japan's economy to imports.
"Japan's exports declined last year by as much as $75 billion -- that's the equivalent of the entire exports of Switzerland," Mr. Hatakeyama said. "Now, other countries can't complain any more about Japan's big trade surpluses."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the decline in Japan's trade surplus and the rise in China's exports misidentified the country that is the largest exporter of goods to the United States. It is Canada. China ranks fourth, behind Mexico and Japan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the port in Mikawa, Japan, a reversal of the usual picture: instead of cars awaiting export, rows and rows of vehicles imported from abroad. (Janet Jarman for The New York Times) Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: Melting Surplus"Japan's merchandise trade surplus plummeted by 38 percent last year, hitting 1983 levels. This year, for the first time, Japan is expected to earn more money from investments overseas than from exports of manufactured goods. MERCHANDISE TRADE SURPLUS: $64.7OVERSEAS INVESTMENT INCOME: $63.7 Graph tracking the merchandise trade surplus and overseas investment income since 1985. (Source: Japanese Finance Ministry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); AGING TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); STATISTICS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); AGING (51%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (58%)

TICKER: 7270 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (89%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (90%) JAPAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



162 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Admission Up For Minorities In California 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 6 

 BODY:
Offers of admission to black, Hispanic and American Indian students in the University of California system have rebounded to levels above where they were before race and ethnicity were banned from the selection process. 
 But, officials said, a change in the system's admission policy approved in November played only a modest role in the minority gains for the fall 2002 semester. 
 "I think what we're seeing is a response to a whole set of efforts, including the outreach we've been engaged in very significantly since 1997," said Dennis Galligani, associate vice president for student academic services. 
The university voted in 1995 to prohibit consideration of race, ethnicity and sex in admissions. The policy took effect in 1998. California voters approved a broader prohibition in 1996 covering hiring, contracting and university admissions.
The change in admissions policy expanded the factors used in the selection process to include information like a student's success in overcoming economic and educational disadvantages. The policy, known as comprehensive review, was criticized by some as bringing affirmative action in through a back door. 
Before comprehensive review, campuses used a two-tier process in which the first 50 percent to 75 percent of the freshman class was admitted based solely on grade-point averages and test scores. The second tier took into account factors like the number of advanced courses available to the student in high school, participation in extracurricular activities and leadership skills. 
Admission of blacks, Hispanics and American Indians, categorized as underrepresented minorities because of their low proportion in the system's eligibility pool, had fallen off drastically as consideration of race and ethnicity was eliminated from the review process. In recent years, their numbers had begun to increase. For those minority students recently offered admission for next fall, the number reached 19.1 percent, compared with 18.8 percent in the fall of 1997. The number fell to 16.7 percent in 1998.
California's population is 32.4 percent Hispanic, 6.7 percent black and nearly 1 percent Indian. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; INDIANS, AMERICAN 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



163 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Conflicting Drives: The Mini in Big Car Country

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
A CAR seemingly from Lilliput has come to America, land of the giant S.U.V.
 The Mini Cooper springs from a nearly half-century-old British car line that peaked in popularity during the 1970's. Over the years, its drivers have included all four Beatles, Clint Eastwood, Peter Sellers and Kate Moss -- and its name is said to have been the inspiration for the term miniskirt. 
 But can a car smaller than a Volkswagen Beetle play in Peoria?
One would think the odds of success for such a vehicle would not be promising, and it may well flame out in a market where vehicles like Chrysler's gangsterish PT Cruiser and the new Beetle seem like passing flavors-of-the-year. After all, people in America are less likely than ever to forgo S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans to buy a car -- let alone a small car. 
Still, B.M.W., which bought Mini's parent in 1994, has stuck cautiously to the big cities since it started selling the car here last month, and its modest success (the car is currently back-ordered) suggests there might be some sliver of appetite left in America for small cars.
B.M.W. is pitching its line of Mini Coopers, which will start at just under $17,000, as the anti-S.U.V. by harnessing one to the top of a Ford Expedition and piggybacking it around cities. More conventional, if cheeky, ads are appearing on the Internet ("Goliath lost" says the Mini Web site), and on billboards like one in upstate New York that reads: "Soon small will mean huge the way bad means good."
Some people are listening. 
Last month, Nathaniel Pearson, a 30-year-old Web designer, and his wife, Michelle Courtois-Pearson, a 29-year-old accessory designer, turned up at the Manhattan shop of the British furniture and housewares designer Terence Conran, where B.M.W. was hosting a Mini party. The Pearsons had ordered one of the tiny cars. 
"I'm a non-S.U.V. guy," Mr. Pearson said, adding that he has started gauging the length of open curbs adjacent to fire hydrants to determine if his Mini could forge a parking space where no bigger car dared legally tread.
Of course, the utility of small, fuel-efficient cars like the Mini in places like New York City is similar to that of small cars in Paris or Rome, where heavy taxes also make gasoline expensive and where, well, one couldn't really park a Suburban. But the introduction of the Mini in the United States comes at a time when truck mania has reached the point that even Cadillac is now selling pickups and Porsche, known for its sleek speedsters, has an S.U.V. in the works. 
In July, General Motors will start selling its Hummer H2, a slightly narrower and more mass-market friendly version of the Hummer H1, G.M.'s take on the Humvee military transport. (H2, unlike H1, "is garageable," said Alan Adler, a G.M. spokesman.)
The question is, do Americans really want to drive something called a Mini when the Hummer lurks? Put it this way: one H2 weighs as much as two and a half Mini Coopers. And if the Hummer says Arnold Schwarzenegger, the Mini says Austin Powers. (The car is expected to make an appearance in the next installment of the film series.) 
"I am much more enthusiastic about the miniskirt than the Mini car," said Leonard Evans, a British-born safety researcher who spent 33 years working for G.M., implying the fear of some potential car buyers that the Mini might easily be squashed on the open road. Mr. Evans, however, believes driver behavior is a far more relevant crash factor than vehicle type and drives a small car himself, though his Pontiac is certainly not Mini-sized. B.M.W. says the Mini is built with advanced safety features and has six air bags.
It may need more than crash protection.
Last month, at a Senate hearing on raising fuel economy standards, Trent Lott, the Senate minority leader, held up a picture of a purple Smart -- another tiny, golf-cart-sized car popular in Europe. He hailed it as the terrifying European vision that tougher fuel economy regulations, since rejected, would impose on America. "This may be fine in Boston or Chicago," Mr. Lott said, "but it's not fine in Lucedale, Miss., or Des Moines or a lot of other places." 
PIERRE GAGNON, the president of Mitsubishi Motor Sales of America, said "I think there's going to be some appeal." But his company also plans to double its S.U.V. offerings from two to four by next year. "I just don't know if Americans are ready for that size of car in the long run," he said. 
Still, the Mini does have some boosters. 
"I think it's absolutely fantastic," said J Mays, head of design for the Ford Motor Company, one of the largest makers of S.U.V.'s. Mr. Mays designed the retro Thunderbird and, when he worked for Volkswagen, the retro Beetle. 
"I like cars with stories behind them and the Mini certainly has got a story," he said. "You get transported right back to London with Twiggy."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "The Size of Things"B.M.W. is hoping to popularize its tiny Mini Cooper at a time when Americans remain enamored with gigantic vehicles like the Hummer H2 (due out this summer). The following reference chart is provided for potential buyers whose sense of scale is overwhelmed by such extremes. M1 Battle Tank (General Dynamics) VITAL STATS HEIGHT: 8 feetWEIGHT: 120,000 lbs.LENGTH: 32 feetWIDTH: 12 feetMILEAGE: About 3 gallons per mileTIME, 0 to 60: Can't do it; 45 m.p.h., topsCOST: About $4,000,000 Multi-purposeThe ultimate all-terrain vehicle, but parallel parking can be difficult. Hummer H2 (General Motors) VITAL STATS HEIGHT: 6.5 feetWEIGHT: 6,400 lbsLENGTH: 15.75 feetWIDTH: 6.75 feetMILEAGE: Miles per gallon: low teensTIME, 0 to 60: 16.5 secondsCOST: About $50,000 The Big'unNothing screams respect me! louder. Downside: tends to conjure Freud. Mini Cooper (General Motors) VITAL STATS HEIGHT: 6.5 feetWEIGHT: 6,400 lbsLENGTH: 15.75 feetWIDTH: 6.75 feetMILEAGE: Miles per gallon: low teensTIME, 0 to 60: 16.5 secondsCOST: About $50,000 Mini Cooper (B.M.W.) VITAL STATS HEIGHT: 4.5 feetWEIGHT: 2,500 lbs.LENGTH: 12 feetWIDTH: 5.5 feetMILEAGE: 30 miles per gallonTIME, 0 to 60: 7 secondsCOST: $17,000 (base price) No Shrinking VioletIt has the B.M.W. imprimatur, which can score points, but a fender-bender with a Hummer could be messy. Big Wheel (Empire Toys) VITAL STATS HEIGHT: 2 feetWEIGHT: A few poundsLENGTH: 3 feetWIDTH: 2 feet at rearMILEAGE: No gas requiredTIME, 0 to 60: Can you imagine?COST: About $30 SunroofEconomical and a head-turner on city streets. Downside: room for just one. Vin Diesel (movie tough guy) VITAL STATS HEIGHT: 6.2 feetWEIGHT: 170-180 lbs.LENGTH: see heightWIDTH: StrappingMILEAGE: Self-poweredTIME, 0 to 60: UntestedCOST: Reportedly $10 million for next picture. A GambleGood mileage from hit car movie The Fast and the Furious,but could stall out. (Sources: Federation of American Scientists; B.M.W.; General Motors; Internet Movie Database)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (66%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (64%) AUTOMOBILES; HUMMER (HIGH MOBILITY MULTIPURPOSE VEHICLE); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (59%) BAYERISCHE MOTORENWERKE AG 

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (56%); KATE MOSS (56%) HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); PARIS, FRANCE (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



164 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
On Arab-America's Main Street, New Flags and Old Loyalties

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J. 

 BODY:
AT midafternoon Friday, Mohamed El Filali was master of ceremonies at a pro-Palestinian rally here, leading a couple of hundred protesters in a cheer: "Sharon, Hitler are the same. Only difference is the name."
 At night, Mr. El Filali, manager of a pediatrician's office, was at a catering hall in the suburbs, wending his way through an impossibly long buffet at a fund-raiser for a congressman organized by Arab-American professionals. "American due process," he said, helping himself to a second plate. "You protest and go on with your life." 
 Friday was a kind of coming out for the Arab-Americans of South Paterson, which has one of the largest concentrations of Arabs in the country. In the days after Sept. 11, Arab storeowners here so deliberately displayed their American allegiance that one businessman said, "It's a contest: Whose flag is bigger?"
But on Friday, the biggest flags on the south end of Main Street were Palestinian. After the rally, young men waved them with abandon, as if to announce that they were back, as Arabs as well as Americans.
"You have to let your frustration and your message out somehow," said Sami Merhi.
Mr. Merhi embodies his fellow Arab-Americans' frustration and message, however complex and contradictory it might sound after Sept. 11.
He came to the United States from Lebanon 28 years ago and prospered as a businessman. He's president of a hospital for the elderly run by Passaic County and he's pals with the movers in both the Arab community and the local government. He's Sami to Arabs and simply Sam to everyone else.
It was Mr. Merhi, 53, who organized the dinner on Friday for Representative William Pascrell, which drew about 250 people.
Mr. Merhi's bond with America grew hideously stronger on Sept. 11. His godson, a financial trader, vanished in the attack. 
"They are coldblooded murderers and things I can't say to you on paper," Mr. Merhi, wearing a tie in the design of an American flag, said of the suicide hijackers. "Crazy fanatics. They're as far from God and Islam as hell itself." But asked if these feelings extend to the Palestinian suicide bombers, whom the United States asks the world to condemn, Mr. Merhi said, "I can't see the comparison."
Over lunch at a Lebanese restaurant, he told of a would-be suicide bomber who, after being captured by the Israelis, explained his intended act as an inevitable response to a life under Israeli occupation. "I think he spoke for everybody," Mr. Merhi said.
Along Main Street here, everyone has an analogy to explain the bombers. "I'm a pharmacist," said Amjad Abukwaik. "If someone came to me and says, 'I have a migraine,' I don't tell them to take an aspirin. I would ask what caused this. I would go into their family background. What's their cultural and economic background? Suicide bombing is wrong, but why does it happen?"
Mr. Merhi attended the rally on Friday, but only briefly. "I like to speak to people's minds, not to the air," he said. "So what if I say Sharon is Hitler? What does this change?"
Mr. Merhi's forum was the evening fund-raiser. It was a classic political affair, overflowing with food and speeches. An Arab-American medical association presented a $20,000 check to a fund for children of Sept. 11 victims. On the surface, there was no obvious tension within the hyphenated identities of the dinner guests. 
But then Mr. Merhi rose to introduce Representative Pascrell. Speaking without notes, Mr. Merhi faulted American foreign policy for allowing Osama bin Laden to take root in Afghanistan, and denounced the long detention of Arab-Americans after Sept. 11.
Moving to the Middle East, he condemned "violence, whether it's committed by a person, a group or a state," and praised Israelis and Palestinians working for peace. Then he told the tale of the captured would-be bomber. "Since I'm dead while I'm still alive," Mr. Merhi said the man told the Israelis, "I decided I'm going to take you with me."
Mr. Merhi's story had echoed the view of Main Street Paterson. But an aide to Mr. Pascrell considered it over the line. Outside the banquet hall, the aide nervously told a reporter that the congressman did not agree with everything said at the dinner and heatedly told Mr. Merhi that he should not have told the story of the suicide bomber.
"It's the truth," Mr. Merhi responded.
For Mr. Pascrell, who represents a large Jewish constituency as well as Arab-Americans, there is more than one truth. "There is not all right on either side," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARAB AMERICANS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (85%); HIJACKING (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); RELIGION (60%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PALESTINIANS; ARAB-AMERICANS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: BILL PASCRELL JR (55%) PURDY, MATTHEW; MERHI, SAMI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); LEBANON (79%) ISRAEL; PATERSON (NJ); NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



165 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Admiring Remark on Jewelry Preceded Beating, Police Say 

BYLINE:  By JACOB H. FRIES 

 BODY:
Detectives investigating the brutal beating of a Jersey City man in Manhattan's theater district believe that the attack began after the victim asked one of his assailants for a cigarette and then admired his jewelry, the police said yesterday.
 The seemingly innocuous request, followed by a compliment, apparently enraged three men who were together on Restaurant Row, a block of West 46th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues. They set upon the victim in a frenzy, beating him, stomping him, striking him in the face with a bottle and, finally, taking his Timberland boots, the police said. 
 Investigators have still not questioned the beaten man, identified as Marcus Robinson, 27, who was in critical condition yesterday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital with injuries that included a broken neck. Doctors have asked them to wait, at least until tomorrow, in hopes that his condition improves, the police said. Mr. Robinson has been heavily medicated since he was beaten.
The three suspects gave different versions of what happened Thursday night. But with the help of two witnesses, investigators now have what they believe is a better outline of what happened.
Around 11:45 p.m., the police said, Mr. Robinson approached the men and asked for and received a cigarette from one of them. A short exchange between the men followed. Then, Mr. Robinson reached out to touch the rings of one of the men as he spoke admiringly of them, and a scuffle broke out, the police said.
Mr. Robinson was kicked, struck in the face with a broken liquor bottle and cut by a weapon similar to brass knuckles, the police said.
Before the attackers left him lying bloodied on the sidewalk, they took his square-toed leather boots, apparently as a final humiliation, the police said.
The three suspects, Cesar Hondares, 21, of the Bronx and Luis Perez, 22, and Giovanni Hernandez, 20, who live with Mr. Hernandez's family in North Bergen, N.J., were arrested 30 minutes later outside a restaurant about half a block away. Charges filed against them include assault and robbery.
Mr. Robinson lived alone in a basement apartment in a brick and wood two-story house in Jersey City.
Patrick Looney, Mr. Robinson's landlord, said Mr. Robinson went to Manhattan on Thursday morning to file for unemployment benefits.
He said Mr. Robinson has lived in the basement of his house for a year and works as a computer programmer. He said Mr. Robinson was originally from Virginia.
Mr. Looney questioned the police version of events, saying he never knew Mr. Robinson to smoke. He said the victim managed to make a telephone call to him yesterday morning, asking that he bring some clothing to the hospital.
"I'm not sure why anybody would want to do this," Mr. Looney said. "He never struck me as a violent person at all." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); THEATER (78%); WITNESSES (77%); ARRESTS (74%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); ROBBERY (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) ASSAULTS 

PERSON: FRIES, JACOB H; ROBINSON, MARCUS; HONDARES, CESAR; PEREZ, LUIS; HERNANDEZ, GIOVANNI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



166 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Cardinal at Center of Strategy to Control Scandal 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 6 

 BODY:
The disclosure this week of more than 50 private e-mail messages among officials of the Los Angeles Archdiocese on the sex-abuse crisis, including many with their lawyers, offers evidence of how intimately involved Cardinal Roger M. Mahony was with the details and with how much the police and the public would be told.
 The messages make clear that the cardinal and the other officials struggled to manage the crisis through a strategy of limited and careful disclosures, but quickly were overwhelmed by the accusations not just of sexual abuse but also of stonewalling by the church. 
 The messages even make clear that the church was aware of the potential for more cases, including instances where priests had inappropriate sexual relations with adults rather than youths.
In one such e-mail message, L. Martin Nussbaum of Denver, a lawyer for the church involved in a settlement with a person who had been molested, warns church officials: "I continue to fear that the next wave of this press feeding frenzy may well focus on clerics who have had romantic or sexual liaisons with other adults. I think it prudent to begin reviewing personnel disciplinary files to assess the scope of any such problem." 
The messages were provided by a Los Angeles radio station, KFI-AM, which has said only that they were sent to the station anonymously. The church has responded angrily that they were stolen, perhaps by a disgruntled employee, and even sought to prevent publication by going to court. Its efforts were rejected, and now the church has urged the police and the F.B.I. to investigate the theft.
Although the cardinal expresses in the messages a need for caution, he generally urged cooperation with the police.
In fact, in one of the clearest signs of the strategy, Cardinal Mahony himself now stands accused of molesting a young woman 32 years ago, and he responded on Friday night with a statement announcing the accusations and denying that he had done anything improper. He also said that he had cooperated fully with the police.
The accuser, a 51-year-old woman in Fresno, came forward last month with an accusation that Cardinal Mahony, as a parish priest there, might have molested her at a Catholic high school. The cardinal said that he was a priest in Fresno at the time, and that he had occasional contact with the students at special Masses, but that he knew nothing of the woman and that he never did anything improper.
In a telephone interview today, the woman offered sketchy details of the incident, and she said she had no specific recollection of sexual abuse.
She said that on that day in 1970, she was being bullied by other students and tried to defend herself but was beaten badly, seriously injured and left unconscious on the ground. She said that when she came to, her underwear, including long underwear and panties, had been removed. She said the cardinal was leaning over her, but not touching her.
The woman added that she screamed, but then passed out again.
"I just saw him," she said. "That's all. I didn't really know him."
In his denial Friday night, the cardinal identified the woman by name and suggested that she had emotional problems. 
The woman confirmed that, saying she had subsequently been thrown out of the high school and later told by a psychiatrist that she suffered from schizophrenia.
She said she was taking medications for the disease. She also said she had worked intermittently at fast-food restaurants, but was unemployed and hoped that the church would help her obtain some disability benefits that were taken away recently.
The cardinal has adopted what appears to be a new, far more open approach to the church crisis.
The e-mail messages cover a period of just a few weeks in late March and early April. They make it clear that every step of the process of making disclosures to the police and the public was debated at great length with an eye toward limiting damage to the church.
The cardinal wavered between angry outbursts, at one point harshly criticizing a church lawyer for dragging her feet in telling the police of three abuse cases, and friendly reflection.
For instance, on March 27, Cardinal Mahony offered detailed explanations of what he thought a letter to the chief of police, Bernard C. Parks, ought to say about eight cases of abuse. The cardinal then added, "What a Holy Week -- filled with Good Fridays, no Easter Sundays!"
In another message, Sister Judith Murphy, the general counsel of the archdiocese, tells two other officials who are about to provide information to the police that they should limit their responses as much as possible.
She wrote: "As to the interview, remember Sgt. Joe Friday -- 'Only the facts, sir, only the facts.' Listen to their questions and take your time answering. Do not volunteer information. This is not a session to be chatty." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); WOMEN (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BULLYING (73%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%) CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; SEX CRIMES; ELECTRONIC MAIL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CARDINALS (ROMAN CATHOLIC PRELATES) 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; KFI-AM (LOS ANGELES) 

PERSON: MAHONY, EDMUND; STERNGOLD, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



167 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: Scandal and Social Change Leave Irish Church Adrift 

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN 

 BODY:
In the Roman Catholic parish of Darndale, where life is hard and attendance at Sunday Mass is well below 10 percent, the missionary pastor recently split the cavernous church in half. Now, the front end provides a more intimate setting for the sparse congregation, and the back end is used for self-esteem classes and aromatherapy sessions intended to make people feel better about themselves and their faith.
 It may seem odd that Catholic missionary work with a New Age whiff is being conducted just five miles from central Dublin. But the pastor, the Rev. Willie Fitzpatrick, said that parishes throughout Ireland had to find new ways to reclaim all that they had lost, and to make Roman Catholicism relevant. 
 Social changes and a string of sordid scandals featuring priests have combined to put distance between two words often uttered as one: Catholic Ireland. As Father Fitzpatrick put it, "The day is gone when people will believe because they are told to believe." 
As American Catholics struggle with revelations of child molestation and cover-ups by the clergy, they might glimpse their future here: where modernization and scandal have cost the Catholic Church in influence and participation; where religious orders are relinquishing convents and property to appease adult victims of childhood abuse; and where some Catholics see a "fire in the forest" opportunity for the seeding of a more inclusive church.
The flames of change were set nearly two generations ago, when an insulated Ireland was exposed to television and free trade; they have since been fanned by sex scandals plentiful enough to be absurd if they were not so sad.
There was the hip, guitar-playing priest known to television audiences; after his death, it was revealed that he had fathered two children with a housekeeper who had sought his help years earlier as a homeless girl.
There was the pedophile priest who refused to return to Northern Ireland to answer child-abuse charges; the long delay in his extradition led to the collapse of the government of Prime Minister Albert Reynolds in 1995.
There was Sean Fortune, a well-known priest who committed suicide in 1999, shortly before he was to stand trial on dozens of charges that he had assaulted young boys. Before washing down barbiturates with whiskey, he dressed in his priest's garb and placed a poem he had written, "A Message From Heaven to My Family," on a dressing table, along with instructions that it be read at his funeral Mass.
 On Saturday, the Vatican announced that Pope John Paul II had accepted the resignation of Brendan Comiskey, the Bishop of Ferns in County Wexford, which the bishop offered on April 1 amid allegations that he had mishandled years of complaints about Father Fortune. 
Last year, a country renowned for exporting its priests, nuns and religious brothers had fewer than 100 people enter into vocations, compared with an annual average of more than 1,400 in the 1960's. The Archdiocese of Dublin -- Ireland's largest diocese, with more than one million Catholics -- expects to ordain just one priest this year, as it did last year, and at a time when more than 40 percent of its priests are over the age of 60.
Even so, the archdiocese is resisting any urge to follow the United States in recruiting priests from other countries, according to the Rev. Kevin Doran, the director of vocation for the archdiocese. To do so would signal to the laity that "you don't necessarily have to make a commitment" to fostering vocations, he said. "In the end, the only way to have people sit up and take notice is to let them experience firsthand the problems that result from their own behavior."
Such a dare may not sit well with an Irish laity that grows ever-more skeptical of the hierarchy.
The psychic connection between Ireland and Catholicism was once so strong that Sunday Mass achieved nearly perfect attendance in 1900, with regular attendance remaining above 90 percent into the early 1970's. It is now estimated to be around 60 percent -- still higher than the United States and the rest of Europe, but a marked drop.
Alan Burke is among those the church has lost. He is 41, a Dublin firefighter who was raised by parents he described as "moderately fanatical" about Catholicism. After a pleasant experience with nuns in kindergarten, he graduated to a school run by the Christian Brothers, he said, "and it was sheer terror for six years."
He remembers the leather strap -- "12 of the best across the hands" -- for being late; the time a teacher slammed his 8-year-old brother's face into a wall, breaking teeth; and the common advice to "steer clear of that fella," in reference to one or two teachers.
He no longer believes in God, he said, and neither he nor his wife, Angela, attends Mass. But their children attend parochial school -- there is little choice in Ireland -- which "causes big problems," he said. "The way my wife and I handle it is, we let them learn the stuff and basically don't practice any of it."
Therese Dolan, 36, an aromatherapist whose workweek includes one day at the Darndale parish, provides what Irish sociologists say is a more typical viewpoint. She grew up in rural County Galway, where she remembers dutiful church attendance, the "doom and black" of Good Friday, and a local pastor so imposing "that you'd nearly be afraid of him." 
While living in New York City for 13 years, she said, her exposure to other faiths led her to believe in a more "universal God." Now, back in Ireland for more than a year, she said she still felt the church's pull, and recently went to an intimate Mass held at a neighbor's home that she described as "absolutely gorgeous."
But over all, she said, she is like a lot of her friends: "I go now and again."
How did the church descend in just 30 years from high and dutiful attendance to such lukewarm acceptance?
"That is the big question," said Tony Fahey, a sociologist at the Economic and Social Research Institute in Dublin. "But one interesting way to put it is not to ask why there's been a decline, but rather how it reached those very high levels in the first place."
After the potato famine of the mid-19th century, historians say, the church emerged as the protector of the poor; faith became intertwined with national identity. As Ireland gained its independence from England, the church filled vacuums by running the schools, the hospitals, the orphanages. Bishops influenced public policy; local priests became final arbiters on everyday matters. For many in insulated Ireland, life was seen through a stained-glass lens.
By the late 1960's, though, the mass media and the country's economic integration with the rest of Europe had begun to change how the people of Ireland saw themselves, said Tom Inglis, a sociologist and the author of "Moral Monopoly: The Rise and Fall of the Catholic Church in Modern Ireland." "It wasn't necessary to be a good Catholic in order to be successful in politics, in economics, in the media, in education, in most walks of Irish life," he said.
Attendance at Sunday Mass gradually slipped over the next two decades. "Then the scandals came," Mr. Inglis said.
In 1992 the country learned that Eamon Casey, the well-known bishop of Galway, had fathered a child 18 years earlier, deserted the mother and child for years, then used diocesan funds to try and buy their silence. "In Ireland, we hadn't had up until then any scandal of that magnitude," Mr. Inglis said. "It was a traditional elite that was suddenly shown to be wearing no clothes."
Before long there emerged a new wave of revelations about brutal conditions in orphanages and workhouses run by some religious orders, and the Catholic Church found itself in a defensive crouch, generally breaking its silence only to dispute allegations. In recent years, though, its posture has changed into one of regret and resignation.
Two months ago, 18 religious orders agreed to provide more than $100 million to compensate the victims of childhood abuse. Most of that money is coming from property transfers -- the Sisters of Mercy convent on Cork Street, for example, and some land owned by the Rosminian Order in County Tipperary.
"We accept that some children in residential institutions managed by our members suffered deprivation, physical and sexual abuse," said Sister Elizabeth Maxwell, the secretary general of the Conference of Religious of Ireland, in announcing its agreement with the government. "We regret that. We apologize for it. We can never take away the pain experienced at the time by those children, nor the shadow left over their adult lives."
For many in Ireland, the crimes of some have tarnished the self-sacrifice of others. Two very different stories have recently been prominent in the news: one concerned more revelations in the Sean Fortune case; the other was the murder in Uganda of a young missionary priest from County Galway.
"Another way of looking at this is that the state abdicated its responsibilities, and the church was left with the abused, the battered, the orphaned," said Kevin Whelan, a historian and the director of the Keough Institute for Irish Studies at Notre Dame in Dublin. "Was there systemic abuse of the most marginalized? If that is the case, then the state bears responsibility, and then so does every Irish person."
What these scandals and societal changes revealed, sociologists and theologians say, was a religious system that emphasized piety and obedience at some expense to spiritual sophistication, and then failed to adapt to societal changes. Now, many women, long the backbone of the Irish Catholic Church, are challenging the church's patriarchy as well as its stands on issues like birth control. Many men, particularly young city dwellers, are not going to church. And in liberal circles -- Galway City, or Ballsbridge, Dublin -- to consider oneself a traditional Irish Catholic is to be anti-intellectual.
Father Fitzpatrick said that the structural dynamic of faith in Ireland was being turned upside down. "The shift in Ireland is from the experience of authority to the authority of experience," he said. "There is a lot of stuff here that we won't be taking into the new Ireland."
The Rev. Gerry Raftery, a Franciscan assigned to Adam and Eve Church in downtown Dublin, agreed. In addition to a two-thirds drop in the church's congregation over the last decade, he said, he has seen acute disaffection in his own family: siblings who are either hostile or indifferent to the church, because of its rigid stands against remarriage and same-sex relationships.
For all the discussions of a "post-Catholic Ireland," there exists a bond between Ireland and Catholicism that extends beyond the church-run schools. An exhibit of the relics of St. Therese de Lisieux last year attracted throngs, for example, and a book of prayer put together by Benedictine monks in County Limerick was a best seller.
"There's an awful lot of gloom and doom, partly because it's scripted that way," Mr. Whelan said. "All you are seeing is the breakdown of a hierarchical, top-down type of church. What I see is the possibility for spiritual renewal. People will elect to become Catholic, rather than being born into it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Willie Fitzpatrick is a priest in Darndale, near central Dublin. (Moya Nolan for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Parishioners at St. Teresa's Church in Dublin. Social change and scandal have meant shrinking congregations in Ireland, including at Adam and Eve Church in Dublin where the Rev. Gerry Raftery, below, is a priest. (Photographs by Derek Speirs for The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); SEX SCANDALS (88%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (87%); CHILDREN (87%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); DEATHS (68%); EXTRADITION (68%); FOREST FIRES (65%); SUICIDE (65%); LITIGATION (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (61%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRIESTS; NUNS 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%) IRELAND (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



168 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Premier Plays to Hungarian Pride, and Far Right 

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, April 6 

 BODY:
There is a line somewhere between healthy pride in nation and the more divisive forces of nationalism, and Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who inspires some and scares others in Hungary, always seems happy to explore it. 
 "I have very good news for you," Mr. Orban, 38, told a crowd this week at his final rally in a close re-election race. It is a race that many here say has polarized this normally calm, hard-working country as never before since the end of Communist rule. 
 "Fifty-four people out of 100 say they are very proud to be Hungarian," he said. "Thirty-six out of 100 say they are quite proud. Of course, there are those who say they are not proud to be Hungarian, but they will vote for another party."
His supporters love the implication: that he is the only choice for true patriots in the first round of the parliamentary election on Sunday. The final round is on April 21.
But his critics, along with Hungary's neighbors and some Western governments, worry that this appeal to national pride is more than mere electioneering. One crucial issue is whether Mr. Orban and his center-right party, Fidesz, would form a governing coalition with the extreme-right Freedom and Justice Party if they do not win an outright majority. 
Mr. Orban refuses to rule this out. But such a coalition could create problems as the country tries to crown its successes by becoming, probably in 2004, among the first of the formerly Communist nations to join the European Union. American officials have told Mr. Orban's government that relations would suffer if it joined with the far-right.
Such a coalition, said Peter Zwack, one of the country's leading businessmen and a parliamentary candidate for the small Free Democrat Party, "would have catastrophic consequences for Hungary." 
"He knows that," Mr. Zwack said. "The question is if he will or he will not stay in power. This is where, I think, the man's character will be measured."
Mr. Orban is a politician of unquestioned talent and charisma, a soccer-playing, churchgoing father of four from the provinces who is also quite probably the defining leader of Hungary's post-Communist era. So it is not surprising that the election here has been less about specific issues that worry Hungarians -- like high taxes or health care -- than about Mr. Orban and his government of aggressive young politicians.
This is, in fact, the issue that seems to divide Hungary most deeply. For months, opinion polls showed Fidesz running neck and neck with its strongest competitor, the Socialist Party, which was in office from 1994 to 1998 and is now led by a rather bland economist, Peter Medgyessy. While Fidesz has gained in recent weeks, most experts say the race is still too close to call.
"I've never had this feeling before," said Endre Hann, director of Median, a polling firm. "It is so close and so tense. It may be a bit exaggerated, but many people feel it is life or death."
By some measures, Mr. Orban should be even further ahead. Many experts say the Socialists, already haunted by their Communist lineage, have run a lackluster campaign. Hungary has done well since Fidesz came into power in 1998, though the Socialists argue that it was their own austerity measures that set the stage. Unemployment is low, about 5 percent. Economic growth is good. Inflation has been cut in half. Wages have risen, even if prosperity is not evenly spread. 
But this relatively healthy bottom line has freed up Mr. Orban to engage in a more ambitious effort: to transform how Hungary feels about itself, from a backward former Communist satellite of 10 million people, to its own distinct identity in Western Europe. So he talks a lot about the more nebulous, emotional issues, like "self-esteem" and "values." 
"We have attempted to make clear that to run, or to govern, a country, it's not just about rational decisions," Mr. Orban said before his rally in the western town of Koszeg. "You have to influence the values of a country. It's family. Labor. Belonging to the same nation."
With many voters, that has struck a chord.
"These values, especially family values, are important to me," said Tomas Mayor, 31, a historian and father of two on his way to the rally. "If you don't have children, you don't have a future. And that's true of the country, too."
Projected in colder, political terms, these appeals are part of Fidesz's broader aim to ensure electoral strength by roping in as many conservative voters as possible. He has hit other emotional notes, including what is perhaps the most sensitive issue here.
About five million ethnic Hungarians live outside Hungary, cut off by the redrawing of borders after World War I. Fidesz granted social and economic benefits to those living in places like Romania, Serbia and Slovakia, though the governments of those nations argue that this was meddling in their internal affairs. Mr. Orban also angered the Czech Republic recently by suggesting a repeal of the Benes decrees, the post-World War II laws that expelled almost 3 million Germans and 30,000 Hungarians from what was then Czechoslovakia.
Some critics argue that these nationalist appeals have the potential, however remote, of destabilizing ethnic Hungarian areas in neighboring countries. Others argue that they are splitting Hungary into "good" Hungarians who vote for Fidesz and the rest.
Mr. Orban denies that nationalist appeals are harmful. "I don't have any fear in my mind of any difficulties rooted in national feelings," he said in the interview. "It's a positive energy."
But even some of Mr. Orban's allies say they see little gain in moving too far to the right -- particularly into a coalition with the Freedom and Justice Party, whose supporters have been accused of anti-Semitism and whose platform is generally antiforeigner, anti-NATO and anti-European Union. One theory is that Mr. Orban is pushing the nationalist card to attract Freedom and Justice voters and thus avoid the possibility of having to form a coalition with it.
All of this conflict has left some voters confused. Laszlo Koszas, 29, who delivers pizzas and earns about $200 a month, said Fidesz had yet to improve his life. On the other hand, he did not find the Socialists entirely convincing. He will vote, he said, but he had no idea for whom. 
"I'll only make my mind up when I get to the polling booth," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Articles yesterday and on Sunday about parliamentary elections in Hungary misstated the name of a far-right party. It is the Hungarian Justice and Life Party, not the Freedom and Justice Party.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Budapest on Friday, Peter Medgyessy, left, the Socialist Party candidate for prime minister, and Viktor Orban, the incumbent, prepared for their final live television appearance together before the election. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); SOCCER (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%) LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; ORBAN, VIKTOR (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%) HUNGARY (99%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) HUNGARY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



169 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Affluent Avoid Scrutiny on Taxes Even as I.R.S. Warns of Cheating 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
The government looks for tax cheating by wage earners far more carefully than it looks for cheating by people whose money comes from their own businesses, investments, partnerships and trusts. This is true despite many warnings by federal tax officials that cheating is becoming far more common among affluent Americans. 
 Even as Congress finances a crackdown on tax cheating by the working poor, it is appropriating little money to detect abuses by people, usually among the wealthiest Americans, who do not rely entirely on wages for their income. 
 Executives at the Internal Revenue Service have mentioned this discrepancy in several reports to Congress. They have not focused attention on how little they can do about it. But an examination by The New York Times of I.R.S. statistics including audit rates and staff deployment figures, as well as interviews with current and former I.R.S. officials, shows that the agency can identify at best only a tiny percentage of the cheats and pursue even fewer of them. 
That the I.R.S. audits the working poor more frequently than wealthy people is well known. What has not been discussed is that the agency does not track nonwage income as closely as wage income -- and in some cases does not verify it at all, even as the I.R.S. says that cheating on nonwage income is rising.
The greater scrutiny of wage earners begins with their employers, who must report wages in detail to the Internal Revenue Service on W-2 and 1099 forms. Banks report interest earned on savings accounts and paid on home mortgages. Churches and charities must issue receipts on donations of more than $249.99. A Social Security number is required to take a child as an exemption.
I.R.S. computers then compare every one of these 1.4 billion independent reports to the entries on each individual income tax return. When the numbers do not match, computers automatically send the taxpayer a notice.
Congress requires even more of the 19 million Americans who apply for the Earned Income Tax Credit, a payment from the government of as much as $4,008 for a low-income working family. Some of them are required to produce marriage licenses, school report cards to prove the existence of a child in the home and other evidence.
But a much smaller group of Americans -- almost all of them among the wealthiest 5 percent -- are subjected to less rigorous standards. Among them are people who own their own businesses, collect rents from tenants and reap gains on their stocks and other investments, including partnerships.
The government trusts these people to report every dollar of income or profit.
Business owners and landlords can report whatever they want, with no institution to contradict them. For them, there is no third party -- like an employer or a bank -- to verify what they put on their tax returns.
Investors can also fudge their numbers. That is because brokerage firms are required to report to the I.R.S. only the total amount received when stock or other securities are sold, leaving it to the investor to determine and report how much was taxable profit. To cheat, an investor simply overstates the amount he paid for the security, thus reducing the taxable profit. 
When people who know each other conduct private transactions for collectibles and other property, the sales are often never reported.
Even when a third party independently reports a person's income to the I.R.S. -- like income from partnerships, limited liability companies and trusts -- the I.R.S. has never matched these reports to individual income tax returns, said Dale Hart, an I.R.S. deputy commissioner.
The reason, she said, is that historically the I.R.S. saw little evidence of cheating by taxpayers with partnership and trust income. That is no longer true, she said.
"We believe we have seen a change in the population," she said. A proliferation of what the I.R.S. calls abusive trust schemes is one reason, she said. 
Another reason is the widespread knowledge among sophisticated taxpayers that the I.R.S. has never matched income from partnerships, known as K-1 income, to individual tax returns, said Jerry Curnutt, a retired I.R.S. expert on partnerships.
A few accountants and tax advisers have been caught in recent years helping business owners cheat on their taxes by exploiting these weaknesses. More commonly, though, family members or longtime business associates conspire, making it difficult for the I.R.S. to detect fraud. 
Cheating on partnership income illustrates weaknesses in stopping abusive tax avoidance among the affluent. Three-fourths of partnership income goes to 2 percent of taxpayers, those making more than $200,000 annually. 
As much as $1 in $5 from partnerships is not reported on individual tax returns, said Charles O. Rossotti, the former computer industry executive who has been commissioner of internal revenue for nearly five years. Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said that if the estimate proved accurate "then it is clear that tax cheats punish not only honest taxpayers by forcing them to shoulder the burden but cost our government literally tens of billions of dollars each year."
The lost taxes on K-1 income this year range from $9 billion to $64 billion, based on figures supplied by different I.R.S. executives.
The larger sum, if collected, would be enough to exempt from income taxes the 62.5 million taxpayers -- half of all those who file -- who made less than $508 a week. And there would still be $29 billion left. 
Next month, the I.R.S. plans to start comparing some of the 24 million K-1 reports with partners' tax returns. But only 142,000 tax returns will be examined this year.
The project is fraught with problems, not least of which is that the 14 income lines on K-1 forms do not line up perfectly with the lines on Form 1040 individual income tax returns.
In addition, the I.R.S. is examining only K-1's reporting taxable income, officials said. It is ignoring those reporting losses even though the losses may have been fraudulently calculated.
When unreported partnership income is found, the I.R.S. will send notices demanding taxes or an explanation. But the I.R.S. was given no additional money for "the actual casework to follow up" when unreported income is found, Mr. Rossotti said.
After analyzing federal and state tax data at the request of The Times, Mr. Curnutt estimated that by spending just $9 million the I.R.S. could recover $1.8 billion in taxes on partnership income alone, a ratio of $200 of revenue for each dollar of added expense, before counting interest and penalties.
Tens of billions more are lost through other forms of cheating, such as secreting money in tax havens like the Bahamas. Jack Blum, a money-laundering expert and I.R.S. consultant, has estimated that offshore accounts alone cheat the government of at least $70 billion annually.
Perhaps $160 billion is lost in the underground economy, in which people are paid in cash and report little or no income, based on I.R.S. estimates. 
But the focus of Congressional action on tax cheats since 1995 has been on those among the working poor who actually file tax returns.
The I.R.S. employs 2,200 people to stop what is at most $9 billion in cheating by these low-income wage earners applying for the special tax credit. It employs only about eight times that many people to hunt for all other kinds of cheating, which some experts estimate at more than $300 billion annually.
As a result, the chance of being audited if one applied for the special credit for the working poor was 1 in 47 last year. But the chance was much less for high-income taxpayers -- 1 in 145 for people earning more than $100,000. It was even less for a business arrangement favored by lawyers, doctors and other professionals, called an S-Corporation: 1 in 233. And the chance of an audit was less still for partnerships: 1 in 400. 
S-Corporations and partnerships provide two opportunities to cheat. The entity can understate its taxable profits or even report a loss. The entity then has more money left for its owners or partners. Those people can then understate their own income from the entity because, unlike wage income, the I.R.S. does not verify it.
The I.R.S. has also sharply reduced audits of people who work for themselves, especially those making the most money. People with tiny businesses with revenue of less than $25,000 are more than twice as likely to be audited as those whose businesses have revenue of $100,000 or more.
"The system is broken," said J. J. McNabb, an insurance analyst in Bethesda, Md., who tracks tax cheats as a hobby. "It used to be everyone knew someone who was being audited and it kept people honest. Now hardly anyone is getting audited."
Mr. Rossotti said in a report to Congress that policing wage earners more closely than those with business and investment income undermines the tax system because "the effect may be perceived as, and will in fact be, unfair because higher-income taxpayers will not have their returns verified to the same degree as middle-income taxpayers."
The principal Congressional committee assigned to oversee the I.R.S., the oversight subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, has held no hearings on tax cheating by the wealthiest Americans. 
The chairman of the subcommittee is the wealthiest member of Congress, Representative Amo Houghton, a New York Republican and former chairman of Corning Glass. In an interview last week, he said he was unaware of any problem of tax cheating by high-income Americans, except for recent newspaper reports of people using credit cards to tap secret accounts in Caribbean tax havens.
Mr. Houghton said that he had not heard of problems with unreported business and investment income but that he would look into them. He said hearing that there was official concern about cheating by higher-income Americans made him ponder whether "we have enough money going to the I.R.S. to do the job at the same level as in the past."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Levels of Scrutiny"Taxpayers who earn money from sources other than wages have the most opportunities to understate their income. But partnerships, S-Corporations and the largest sole proprietorships face little risk of audit from the Internal Revenue Service. TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Biggest corporations -- $250 million or more in assetsCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 3 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Small sole proprietorships (also freelancers) -- $25,000 or less gross revenue, schedule C filersCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 37 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Working poor -- Earned income tax credit applicantsCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 47 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Smaller corporations -- $1 million to $5 million in assetsCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 49 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Larger sole proprietorships (also freelancers) -- $100,000 or more gross revenue, schedule C filersCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 83 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: High-income individuals -- $100,000 or more adjusted gross incomeCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 145 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Subchapter S corporations -- Owners, rather than the businesses, pay taxes directlyCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 233 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: PartnershipsCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 400 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Individuals -- $50,000 to $100,000 adjusted gross incomeCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 435 TAXPAYERS IN 2000: Individuals -- $25,000 to $50,000 adjusted gross incomeCHANCES OF BEING AUDITED: ONE IN: 455 (Source: Internal Revenue Service)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX FRAUD (92%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AUDITS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (61%); MARRIAGE (60%) TAXATION; TAX EVASION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (94%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



170 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Using Love, and Chess Lessons, to Defy Theories on Race and Test Scores 

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO 

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., April 4 

 BODY:
When New York State released elementary and middle school test scores last week that were seen through the prism of race and ethnicity for the first time, the results were disheartening. The achievement gap between whites and minorities was more like a canyon, existing across the demographic spectrum, from wealthy suburbs to big cities.
 But some districts and schools defied assumptions about race and income, leading educators to ask what those schools are doing differently. 
 One such school is Lincoln Elementary School, here in southern Westchester County. Half of the school's 800 students are black and close to half are eligible for a free or reduced lunch, but performance was high and the gap between blacks and whites was negligible. On the fourth-grade English test, 85 percent of black students met state standards compared with 88 percent of white students. On the math exam, 89 percent of black students met the standards, while 98 percent of white students did. 
Students deemed "economically disadvantaged" -- by virtue of their qualifying for a free lunch -- actually did slightly better on both the English and math tests than those students who were not from low-income families.
The school, like others in Mount Vernon, outperformed some of the elite public schools in the county, even though annual per-pupil spending in the Mount Vernon school district is $11,000, while in some of the most affluent districts in the county, per-pupil spending reaches $18,000.
So what's the secret? There are several, it seems, some at Lincoln, some districtwide. Perhaps at the top of the list at Lincoln is George C. Albano, the principal.
"He is not going to allow a single poor teacher in his school -- it's as simple as that," said Ronald O. Ross, the district superintendent. "Children will perform directly in proportion to whether they believe that the teacher loves and respects them. If they think you love them, they'll walk through a wall for you."
Mr. Albano, Lincoln's principal for 22 years, obsesses over hiring decisions. He says he tries to snag the best and brightest teachers by networking with professional organizations and arts groups in the county, and by asking for suggestions from the 17 members of his extended family who work in education. Recent victories include an opera singer (and Juilliard graduate) to teach music, and a children's book illustrator (and Yale graduate) to teach art.
Throughout the corridors and classrooms of Lincoln, the largest of Mount Vernon's 11 elementary schools, one detects an enthusiasm for learning. Classical music fills the hallways, along with riotously colorful displays of students' writing and artwork.
Once a week, the students get a lesson in chess with a visiting master -- a $125,000 schoolwide tutorial paid for by a Greenwich, Conn., banker impressed by the Lincoln chess team three years ago. As they do across the district, students begin writing in kindergarten, and after first grade everyone is expected to write in a journal each night.
Portly, affable and peripatetic, Mr. Albano talks about love the way other educators might talk about lesson plans. "If you love children, if you have high expectations, it will work," he said. "I greet the children in the morning. I might tell a girl, 'I love the way Mommy fixed your hair.' It's little things. You make them feel special."
The similar performances of white and black students did not surprise Mr. Albano. "What it simply shows is that every youngster, no matter who they are, is treated the same," he said.
The test results of black and white students at Lincoln stand in stark contrast to those statewide. On last year's fourth-grade English test, for instance, 74 percent of white students across the state met the standards, compared with 39 percent of black students and 40 percent of Hispanic students. Disregarding race, 76 percent of children who do not qualify for a free lunch passed the test, while only 42 percent of children who receive lunch assistance passed.
Over all, the Mount Vernon school district, where about 85 percent of the 10,200 students are black and Hispanic, also demonstrated smaller gaps between blacks and whites than the statewide averages. While the district found itself the target of criticism this week after a routine audit raised questions about financial irregularities, the test scores have nonetheless been good news.
On the 2000-2001 fourth-grade English test, 71 percent of black students in the district met standards, compared with 88 percent of whites. (The state did not break out the performance of Hispanic students for English.) In math, 79 percent of black students and 65 percent of Hispanic students met the standards, compared with 95 percent of whites.
The district was singled out last year by state officials for its tremendous improvement since the state tests were first given in 1999. Three years ago, for example, a third of all the fourth graders passed the English test, Mr. Ross said. Two years ago, half did. Last year, three-quarters did.
"Mount Vernon shows that neither race nor poverty works as an excuse for low performance," said Richard P. Mills, the state's education commissioner. "Ron Ross doesn't seem to make excuses for anything. He is entirely focused on lifting the performance of the children."
Here is where some of the other secrets to the district's overall success come into focus. In response to the state assessment, the district hired a consultant to standardize what should be taught in each grade and doubled the budget for professional development.
As an another example, Mr. Mills cited Mount Vernon's initiative last year to spur students to read. The New York State Board of Regents requires elementary students to read a minimum of 25 books a year, but Mr. Ross raised the bar. "He said, 'My kids are geniuses, so they'll read 50 books," ' recalled Mr. Mills, "and they believed him."
The district used the carrot approach, giving out 168 bicycles, paid for with donations, to those students who managed to read at least 50 books. And then there are those journals.
"What Ron Ross did is not terribly complicated and, in fact, it's within the grasp of any school," Mr. Mills said. "He simply concentrated on the standards and he helped his colleagues, teachers and principals look at what they were doing and helped bring practical supports to bear on the problem."
It was a routine audit by the State Education Department that reported a number of financial irregularities and other problems. Among the findings were the district's misrepresentation of its dropout rate and the wrongful use of taxpayer money to mail nonschool-related material.
Mr. Ross, who arrived here four years ago after working in New York City and on Long Island, defended the district's practices. "There is nothing in there to comment on except to say that we have finished in the black every single year and our bond rating has gone up," Mr. Ross said. He added that discrepancies in the dropout rate resulted from the district's inability to track the comings and goings of foreign-born students.
A tall, slender man with a preference for double-breasted suits, Mr. Ross expressed hope that the audit would not distract from the lesson Mount Vernon had to offer other low-income districts -- that the state's standards could be used to improve education.
Since the inception of the state tests in the fourth and eighth grades, some of the wealthiest districts in Westchester County have criticized the exams, saying they force schools to "teach to the test," thereby stifling creativity. Scores of families in Scarsdale even boycotted the eighth-grade tests last year. But Mr. Ross and Mr. Albano believe that the state standards leave room for innovation.
"The standards are more sophisticated than in the past and the tests are no longer 'yes or no' and A, B, C or D," Mr. Albano said. "You have to gather data and analyze information and use critical-thinking skills. That's why introducing an activity like chess to all the children makes so much sense."
Of the chess lessons, Mr. Ross said, "It's the quiet, the discipline and the challenge of exercising the mind."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An instructor from the Music Conservatory of Westchester paid a visit to third graders at Lincoln Elementary School in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Above, standing, Ronald O. Ross, the Mount Vernon superintendent. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W; ROSS, RONALD O; ALBANO, GEORGE C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) MOUNT VERNON (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



171 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Debate Makes a Memorial Stronger 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Rebuilding Downtown" (editorial, April 3) is correct in pushing for timely development of a master plan for rebuilding the World Trade Center site, but many constituencies must be heard. Therefore, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation should not move too quickly. 
 The most difficult part of rebuilding, beyond managing our collective and continuing grief, is managing the input that must be received from a range of public agencies, private developers and community groups. We need to develop alternative solutions, debate their pros and cons in a public forum and come to a consensus. The process is as important as the result.

GERARD F. X. GEIER II
New York, April 4, 2002

The writer is a principal in NBBJ Architecture.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lauren Redniss)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); WRITERS (73%) TERRORISM; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: NBBJ GROUP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: GEIER, GERARD F X II 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



172 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Debate Makes a Memorial Stronger 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
John C. Whitehead, chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, has suggested an international design competition for a Sept. 11 memorial ("Rebuilding Downtown," editorial, April 3). I was one of hundreds who entered the Vietnam Veterans Memorial design competition, and I remember -- and treasure -- the depth of emotion and effort that process brought forth. 
 The brilliant design by Maya Lin that was selected ignored that part of the design program that cautioned against any negative comment on the conflict. 
 In other words, the designer had a clearer vision of a proper memorial than the committee that wrote the design program, and fortunately the jury had the good sense to realize it. 
The heated dialogue that ensued when the design was selected was a powerful cathartic for the country. The events of Sept. 11 deserve nothing less.

JOHN MULLEN
Dallas, April 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); VETERANS (72%) TERRORISM; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; VIETNAM WAR 

PERSON: MULLEN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



173 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Debate Makes a Memorial Stronger 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Rebuilding Downtown" (editorial, April 3) noted that the state and city have moved fairly quickly to distribute grants to downtown businesses "as a means of inducing them to remain in Lower Manhattan." As the owner of a lobbying firm that was approved for such a grant, I agree that the process was quick. 
 I am not sure, however, that these grants will compel my downtown business neighbors to remain. Because while I had to prove that my business was in operation in the area before Sept. 11 to secure a grant, there was no stipulation that I remain in Lower Manhattan. 
 For a company like mine, which is committed to staying downtown, the grant program has been a godsend. While it hasn't been easy, we're glad to be back. 
But what of those companies that might not be so committed to downtown's renewal? Without safeguards, how can we be sure they will not leave?

JONI A. YOSWEIN
New York, April 3, 2002

The writer is a former member of the New York State Assembly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); TERRORISM (69%) TERRORISM; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: YOSWEIN, JONI A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



174 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: No Reason to Line Yankees' Pockets 

 BODY:
To the Sports Editor:
 The papers have been filled with grumblings about the inalienable right of Yankee fans to watch the Yankees. The assumption seems to be that Cablevision must include YES in basic cable, passing along any fees to all subscribers, no matter that forced consumption ill suits our free-market system. 
 As a New Yorker, I would say no to YES. Although Cablevision may have proved itself incapable of managing sports franchises (witness the Rangers and Knicks), its management of cable systems is spot on. I have never seen any reason to line the plush pockets of the Boss, Clemens, Jeter or El Duque.
So, to Cablevision, I would suggest, stand by your convictions. If the Yankees want all their games televised, then they can go back to broadcast TV; if they want their own network, then consumers can buy it separately. To politicians, I would say, remember that more voters are not Yankee fans than are; demanding that Cablevision take $24 from me every year for Steinbrenner, well, it just doesn't look good in a recession. And to the Yankees, I would say, just play ball.

COLIN SAVAGE
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%) BASEBALL; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%) NEW YORK YANKEES; YES NETWORK; CABLEVISION INC 

PERSON: SAVAGE, COLIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



175 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
So You Lost Your Job. Feel Better Now?

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
ATTENTION, New Yorkers and those who work in the city! Are you feeling sorry for yourself because the economy here is still crumbling? Are you envious of your fellow Americans who live where the recession seems to be over? Are you seriously considering trading your co-op on Columbus Avenue for a cottage in Columbus, Ohio, just because of the unemployment rate there is under 4 percent?
 Christopher J. Ruhm has news for you: the local recession is good for your health.
 Professor Ruhm, who teaches economics at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, has spent years studying localized economic downturns like the one now afflicting New York City, where the unemployment rate now tops 7 percent.
 And he's found that as the unemployment rate rises, other things fall: deaths, smoking, obesity, heavy drinking, heart disease, and some kinds of back problems. Conversely, as one of his recent papers puts it, "Economic Expansions Are Unhealthy." 
 Sounds unlikely, doesn't it? After all, unemployed people often lose their health insurance, usually can't afford to go to a gym, and are sometimes found drowning their sorrows at watering holes that sell cheap drinks. (Given their lack of funds, some unemployed New Yorkers report, their vices are more likely to revolve around watching daytime TV and eating Cap'n Crunch out of the box.)
 But Professor Ruhm is persuasive. His work has been published in very scholarly journals, and he is associated with the National Bureau of Economic Research, home to the folks who decide when recessions have begun and ended.
 His papers are full of complex equations and sentences such as "Individuals maximize a utility function U(H,Z), where H is health, Z a composite consumption good and (with subscripts denoting partial derivatives) Uh and Uz (Uhh and Uzz) are positive (negative)." There are footnotes and appendixes and references to mysterious statistical thingles like the Huber-White sandwich estimator, which has nothing to do with lunch.
 And after running reams of health data through econometric models, he has consistently found that "short-lasting economic downturns are good for health," he said recently. And upturns are bad.
 For example, he found that a one percentage point rise in a state's jobless rate is associated with a 0.5 percent decrease in the total death rate. When the unemployment rate drops by a point, fatal car accidents increase by 2.4 percent and people are more likely to report that they have medical problems.
 Why might this be? "There are various possible explanations, none of which are completely convincing," Professor Ruhm said.
 One fairly obvious factor is that people who are not working are less likely to be injured or killed on the job. Another is that traffic congestion and pollution, both of which present health risks, often rise when the economy booms and subside when the economy swoons.
 While recreational drinking doesn't seem to change much in recessions, heavy drinking declines, perhaps because booze hounds have less money in their pockets, the professor found. The number of smokers also falls.
 Finally, when the economy is cooling, people have more time to take care of their health, by exercising, say, or eating at home rather than scarfing down fast food. When the economy is cooking, "people are so busy they don't have time to invest in health," Professor Ruhm said.
 "So they drink more, and eat unhealthily."
 To be sure, not all of a recession's effects are benign. Suicides tend to rise, as do some kinds of mental illness, he said, adding, "There's some evidence that physical and mental health might go in opposite directions."
 And no one is suggesting that New Yorkers would be healthier if the current economic pothole turned into a deep crater. The professor's work focuses on fairly short-term recessions and expansions, not on long-term trends.
"I'm not saying that if all our income was permanently cut in half, that would be good for our health," he said. In fact, he notes, higher incomes generally translate into better health, which makes it even more surprising that economic upturns still produce less healthy populations.
 So take heart, New York. The economy here may still be crummy, the number of jobs dropping, the unemployment rate rising. Things may be going a lot better in Modesto, Calif., or Missoula, Mont. But what's money when you have your health?

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I'm not saying that if all our income was permanently cut in half, that would be good for our health," said Christopher J. Ruhm. He does say a short economic slump helps it. (Karen Tam for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); RECESSION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); SMOKING (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); OBESITY (70%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (63%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (60%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; RUHM, CHRISTOPHER J (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002 



176 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Judge Considers Power Cable 

BYLINE:  By John Rather 

 BODY:
Judge Carl J. Schuman of Superior Court in New Britain will decide this week whether to bar installation of a 330-megawatt electric cable across Long Island Sound until at least June.
 The delay would allow the judge time to hear a challenge to the project brought by the state attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, and the City of New Haven. 
 On Wednesday, the state House of Representatives approved a one-year moratorium on construction of utility crossings in the Sound, including the electric cable. 
The 138-11 vote calls for a comprehensive environmental assessment of all utility projects in the Sound, which is regulated by state and federal agencies. The bill now goes to the Senate.
The moratorium endorsed Wednesday would ban new construction of interstate pipe and cable lines, but would exempt maintenance on existing lines near Norwalk owned by Northeast Utilities.
Mr. Blumenthal and the city have filed suit to reverse an approval that the Connecticut Siting Council gave the project. The suit argues that laying the 24-mile cable from New Haven to Shoreham could damage shellfish beds and cause other environmental damage and would deliver power to Long Island without economic benefit to Connecticut.
Richard M. Kessel, the chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, said the authority was supporting Trans-Energie, the cable developer, in arguing that the cable not be delayed. He said that the Connecticut officials were being shortsighted. 
"If the court decides that they will not allow the cable until the whole case is heard, that would likely kill the cable for this summer," he said. "And that could lead to electric shortages in Connecticut and the Northeast as sure as on Long Island."
The Army Corps of Engineers approved the project last month but said the cable had to be in place by June 1 to avoid harm to shellfish and winter flounder. Failure to meet the deadline would delay the project until fall. The authority said that laying of the cable would have to begin by early May to beat the deadline.
Mr. Kessel has said that electricity delivered on the cable and produced by 10 small power units that the company is installing would be needed to avoid power shortages in heat waves this summer. John Rather

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (79%); APPROVALS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ENERGY SITING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ARMIES (52%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUITS AND LITIGATION; WIRE AND CABLE 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST UTILITIES (56%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (55%)

TICKER: NU (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (90%) SCHUMAN, CARL (JUDGE); BLUMENTHAL, RICHARD (ATTY GEN); RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) LONG ISLAND SOUND; NEW HAVEN (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



177 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT: ESSAY; 
Investment Counseling From the 'Real' Pros

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
NOTHING gets my blood pumping, and imagination running, like a hot discussion of 401(k) plans. So here goes.
 A few weeks ago, Conning & Company saw fit to put out a press release telling the world of a "New Role Emerging for 401(k) Providers." You may not have heard of Conning, but it is -- the release says -- "one of the largest asset managers specializing in insurance company investments in the United States," as well as "a nationally respected provider of research publications on the insurance industry." 
 Despite Conning's unfortunate name, I have no reason to doubt its claims. Those are not the kind of honors one makes up.
Anyway, the release touched on the debate now festering in Washington about whether companies should be offering investment advice to their employees in their 401(k) retirement plans. The impetus for the debate, of course, is the Collapse of Enron, the most dastardly event in the history of business. As you may be aware, the Collapse of Enron left hundreds -- maybe thousands -- of upper-middle-class people out of work for weeks, if not months.
Some even lost their pools.
Most unfortunately, Enron's plunge into bankruptcy court also cost many of its rank-and-file employees their savings. They believed in Enron and placed all, or most, of their 401(k) savings in its stock.
Their plight prompted Conning to commission a study of 401(k) plans. It found that "in the wake of Enron's apparent demise and the loss of retirement funds suffered by many companies' employees, the need for investment advice is growing." When did an investment adviser ever find otherwise?
The release went on to suggest that the insurers -- Conning's clients -- that run 401(k) plans "have an opportunity now to increase their business" by offering more advice to the employees in those plans.
After all, Washington is pressing companies to educate their employees on investment issues -- and it may even try to force them.
But the press release failed to answer a crucial question: Who in the name of all that is good would want financial advice from an insurance company? Insurance companies have managed to miss every financial trend of the last two generations, which is why Hartford, the home of much of the insurance industry , is such a bustling metropolis today.
The only insurance company that has shown the slightest streak of innovation in the last 30 years was the Equity Funding Corporation. The Equity Funding Corporation was a fraud. Insurance is such a good business that Citigroup just got out of it.
On the other hand, if the financial companies that run the 401(k) plans are not allowed to give advice to the participants, workers may be left receiving tips from their employers, as Washington prefers, and with predictable results.
Imagine a scene at Enron headquarters, September 2001:
Jeffrey K. Skilling stands before a group of Enron employees, while Andrew S. Fastow sits at a nearby desk, riffling through stacks of $100 bills. The words "Today's Discussion: Your 401(k). Who Needs It Anyway?" are written in red Magic Marker on a white board behind Mr. Skilling.
An employee raises her hand. "Mr. Skilling, Mr. Fastow, how much of my retirement account should I invest in Enron stock?"
"Oh, I'd say 90, maybe 95 percent. Andy, any ideas?"
"Don't bother me. I'm counting my money."
"But isn't that risky, Mr. Skilling? What if the stock goes down?"
"Down? Don't be such a sissy. Go out there and buy some stock. In fact, I've got some shares I could sell you right now."
On second thought, this scene is too depressing to contemplate. So here's a better idea. Instead of depending on companies or insurers to help employees manage 401(k)'s, let workers get advice directly from Congress and the White House. After all, politicians on both sides of the aisle have had amazing success as investors over the years. No asset class seems immune from their magic.
TRADERS of oil, gas and pork bellies could be advised by Hillary Rodham Clinton, commodities investor extraordinaire: "My secret: The Wall Street Journal."
For penny-stock investors, Robert G. Torricelli and the no-longer-elected Alfonse M. D'Amato could share their success stories: "It's so important to have a broker you can trust, whether at Whale Securities or Stratton Oakmont."
For investors hoping to turn a small fortune into a large one, even after a couple of setbacks, President Bush, former general partner of the Texas Rangers, could teach: "What I'm talking about here, folks, is taxpayer subsidies and leverage. The evil one doesn't have taxpayer subsidies and leverage. You do."
With tips like those, employees should have no problem building their nest eggs for retirement -- without having to invest in their companies' stocks or risky names like General Electric. The Standard & Poor's 500 may rise or fall, but pork bellies are a sure route to riches. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 7 in the quarterly Mutual Funds Report, Part 2 of this section, about investment advice for 401(k) retirement plans misstated the timing of a Conning & Company study of them. Research began on March 1, 2001, according to the company, months before Enron's problems became publicly known; the study was not prompted by those problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); US 401K PLANS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); EQUITY FINANCING (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ETHICS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); TRENDS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; INSURANCE; ETHICS 

COMPANY: CONNING & CO (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONNING & CO 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



178 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT; 
Their Words Are Our Bonds

BYLINE:  By ABBY SCHULTZ 

 BODY:
WHEN Gov. James E. McGreevey announced his first budget proposal last month to the Legislature, lawmakers listened intently. The press paid close attention, and taxpaying New Jersey residents were eager to learn how the new governor would meet his policy goals amid a budget deficit of nearly $3 billion this fiscal year and anticipated shortfalls to come. 
 But perhaps the most important audience was a handful of individuals at Wall Street's big bond rating agencies. The assessments of these men and women, who analyze the ability of New Jersey to pay its debts, can end up costing taxpayers a lot of money if they don't like what they see. 
 The bond rating agencies, which include Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation, rate general obligation bonds sold by the states to pay for road repairs, school construction and transportation among other state financing needs. The bonds are fully backed by the state. The job of the rating agencies is to assess the risk to investors who buy these bonds. 
Bonds with high ratings are considered less risky and carry a lower interest rate than bonds with lower ratings. A state like Virginia, which has the highest rating, triple-A, from S.&P. will pay less in interest costs to bondholders than a state like California, which has a single-A-plus rating. 
Early last week, in response to Mr. McGreevey's proposed budget, Standard & Poor's decided to maintain New Jersey's above-average bond rating of double-A-plus. The rating agency remains concerned, however, whether New Jersey can get out of its fiscal crisis and so has kept the bonds on "credit watch with negative implications." 
By placing an issuer's bonds on credit watch, whether it is a corporation like Enron or a state, S.&P. is alerting investors that it will carefully watch the issuer's progress for the next six to nine months and will downgrade the rating if warranted, said Robin Prunty, a director in the public finance department at Standard & Poor's. There are three other states -- Tennessee, Washington and Wisconsin -- currently on credit watch with negative implications. 
In New Jersey, S.&P. is concerned that the governor's revenue estimates rely on personal income projections that "are on the high side relative to other states that we've seen," Ms. Prunty said. The budget also relies on nonrecurring revenue, including a proposal to sell $1.1 billion in bonds backed by expected revenues from a settlement with tobacco companies. It is also unclear if the Legislature will approve proposals like the tobacco bonds. 
"Fundamentally, we think New Jersey has a pretty substantial economic base," Ms. Prunty said. "It's clearly one of higher rated credits. But I think there's lots of moving parts to that budget."
Moody's Investors Service, another big rating agency, downgraded New Jersey's general obligation bonds early last month to an average rating of Aa2 from above average, or Aa1. 
The effects of this so-called "split rating" -- above average from one rating agency and average from another -- could raise the interest costs that New Jersey taxpayers pay to bondholders by a relatively small amount of less than 0.1 percentage points, according to bond market participants.
Still, a state treasurer has good reason to be concerned about any perceived deterioration in credit strength. New Jersey, for instance, had maintained its above-average rating since it was downgraded from triple-A during the 1990's recession, said S.&P.'s Ms. Prunty. Another downgrade is clearly a move in the wrong direction.
"As you move down the categories, there's always the risk you are going to move further down," Mr. Friedlander said. "Any state guards their credit rating as one of the first things they have to do."
Given the stakes, the state Treasurer, John E. McCormac, who is responsible for putting together the state budget, takes the comments of Moody's and S.&P. seriously. 
"Every discussion we've had so far on different options has always at some point turned to what the rating agencies would think of these different options," Mr. McCormac said. 
The treasurer estimates he has spoken to analysts of each rating agency, including a third, Fitch, at least a dozen times by phone since he took office. He has also had face-to-face meetings with each. "We almost have a direct line," he said. 
Mr. McCormac says that though the rating agencies, as outside, unelected observers, have a big influence on the budget process, their approach shows reasoned and thoughtful analysis. "They ask questions," he said. "They try to get not just the numbers, but the story behind the numbers."
The process also benefits the treasurer as he learns how other states handle difficult issues. "It's good to talk to people who have experience across all 50 states in budgeting and financing," Mr. McCormac said.
At each agency, the state's finances are reviewed by a lead analyst and usually at least one other analyst. Any rating decisions, however, are made with the input of a committee of analysts versed in state credit trends. The resulting rating is a "relative measure of financial strength," which looks at how each state is doing relative to the others, said Timothy Blake, Moody's lead analyst for New Jersey. 
The rating agencies focus on four broad areas when they make state rating decisions. The first is the general economy of the state. The second is the debt profile: How much debt does the state have outstanding? What kind of debt is it? What is the size of the debt in relation to the total budget? 
The third area is administrative, the role of the governor and Legislature in the budget process. New Jersey combines a constitutional requirement of a balanced budget and strong gubernatorial power, for example. 
Moody's also looks at how well the Legislature solves problems. Moody's has noted that the New Jersey legislature has a difficult time limiting spending, singling out the court-ordered requirement to make massive improvements to poor school districts. 
The fourth area, the state's financial performance, is the most worrisome to Moody's and S.&P. New Jersey's revenues have plummeted as residents earn less from jobs in financial services and as they pay less in capital gains taxes from their stock holdings, Mr. Blake said. Meanwhile, spending isn't being cut enough, he said. 
As a result, the state's budget is out of "structural balance" -- spending is exceeding revenues. "That's $2 billion out of whack in 2002 and $2 billion in 2003, even after all the cuts and adjustments," Mr. Blake said. "And because we don't think stock markets and financial services will be zooming back, we think they'll be $2 billion out of whack in 2004. That sort of multiple period of out of structural balance, we didn't feel kept New Jersey among the upper tier of states."
At Moody's, only 8 states have an above average, or Aa1, rating. At S.&P., 11 states, including New Jersey, are above average. 
Though the rating agencies influence the budget process, they don't ultimately determine the outcome. Louis D. Greenwald, a Democrat and chairman of the State Assembly budget committee, isn't about to agree with Moody's view that the state should raise taxes to close the budget gap. 
"I look at them as a research tool, as part of the process," Mr. Greenwald said. "We check their information, and take the suggestions and analyze them according to our own personal experiences. It doesn't mean they have the right answers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Experts at Moody's Investors Service who rate state bonds, from the left: Bob Kurtter, Renee Boicourt, Linda Hird Lipnick and Tim Blake. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); BUDGETS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BOND ISSUES (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%) RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (83%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (83%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



179 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: AL QAEDA; 
Verses From bin Laden's War: Wielding the Pen as a Sword of the Jihad

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE 

 BODY:
The poem is a tale of betrayal, exile and siege, cast as a mournful conversation between father and son.
"Why, father, have they sent these missiles, thick as rain," the child asks, "showing mercy neither to a child, nor to a man shattered by old age?"
 "It is a world of criminality, my son," the father laments, "where children are, like cattle, slaughtered." 
 The poem, "The Travail of a Child Who Has Left the Land of the Holy Shrines," was found last fall in an abandoned house in Kabul, Afghanistan, once used by Al Qaeda fighters. The three-page printed poem clearly notes its two authors, "the poet Dr. Abd-ar-Rahman al-Ashmawi" and "Sheik Osama bin Laden." 
Three Arabic literature experts who examined the poem for The New York Times said it appeared that Mr. bin Laden had written roughly half the verses, probably after the American bombardment of Afghanistan began in October. 
The poem alludes to Mr. bin Laden's nomadic exile from Saudi Arabia to Sudan and then to Afghanistan. It criticizes Arab nations for not rising up against the attacks on Afghanistan, saying, "They are America's henchmen, blinded and devoid of vision." 
The poem, reproduced as if for distribution, appears to be another example of Mr. bin Laden trying to use poetry, a revered art form in the Muslim world, to further his cause and burnish his image as a pan-Islamic warrior, savior and muse.
At his son's wedding in Afghanistan in February 2001, Mr. bin Laden read a poem celebrating the attack in October 2000 on the American destroyer Cole, according to American officials. In a homemade videotape from November, he hailed the attack on the World Trade Center by reading a poem. 
"The function of poetry in the Arab world is much broader and wider than it is in Western culture," said Issa Boullata, a professor of Arabic literature at McGill University in Montreal, who reviewed the bin Laden poem. "He wants to show he is a leader and he knows the culture, and he is using the medium which the traditional society accepts."
Professor Boullata and the other experts noted that the poem found in Kabul was written in the classical Arabic used in the Koran, which would give the verses religious authority and wider appeal. "Even those who are not literate people, who cannot read, when this kind of Arabic is read to them they understand it," he said, "because they recite the Koran every day." 
Writing and reciting verse is more common among nonpoets in the Islamic world than in the West, the experts said. More than a dozen poems apparently written by fighters in the jihad were found in abandoned safe houses, training camps and trenches in Afghanistan last fall.
The poems, most of them handwritten, were in Arabic, Urdu and Pashto, suggesting their authors were Arab and Pakistani volunteers and Afghan supporters of the Taliban. While the sophistication of the writing varies widely, the verses offer a glimpse into the fighters' thoughts and motivations.
One Arabic poem, signed by a Mukhtar Said, joyously hails the Sept. 11 attacks. "The cross has been smashed with the Koran's pick axe," the poem begins. "The hosts of the truth are striking with lances at the land of deviation, the abode of the devil." Philip Kennedy, an Arabic literature professor at New York University who translated the poem, said it then refers to the hijackers: "Their fingers turned, steering a plane towards the citadels -- the refuge of crows."
In another poem, this one praising the attack on the Cole off Yemen, Mr. Said writes, "Nothing will cause them weighty harm . . . except if their heads are shorn off and scattered about." He urges other young men to follow the path of those "who plunged into the seas, steadfastly."
Other poems reflect more universal emotions, like one apparently written by a Pakistani recruit that says, "My dear one is gone now, I can't live in this heaven without my beloved."
The origin of the bin Laden poem, like the others, is not clear. Neither an American intelligence official consulted by The Times nor the poetry experts recognized the name of Mr. bin Laden's co-author, Dr. Ashmawi. But they said it was not unusual for one person to add to the verses written by another. 
Nor is it clear just which verses were written by Mr. bin Laden himself. 
Professor Kennedy said he believed that Mr. bin Laden wrote the second half, beginning at line 22, where the father says, "I have migrated westward to a land where flows the Nile," a description that mirrors Mr. bin Laden's exile from Saudi Arabia. 
Pierre Cachia, a professor of Arabic literature at Columbia University who translated the poem for The Times, believes that the portion written by Mr. bin Laden begins several lines below, where the father begins speaking to the son: "Here are we, locked in tragedy: all safety gone." 
But according to Professor Boullata, it is possible that the Qaeda leader actually wrote the first half. "It's very difficult to say," he said.
The poem includes anti-American references and it praises Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader. "Kabul holds its head up high despite the hardship and the danger," he writes, and lauds "our commander, Mullah Omar" as "marked by manliness and pride." 
That portion also implies that Mr. bin Laden has been demonized simply because he was trying to recapture the purity of Islam. "Father, what has happened so your likenesses are on placards?" he asks. "Is your redeeming of an ancient house a crime that cannot be forgiven?"
The poem's classical Arabic is another sign of Mr. bin Laden's goal of recreating the caliphate, the era of Islam's ascendancy after Muhammad's death in the seventh century.
"It's purely favoring the classical tradition, not anything modern," Professor Cachia said. "We don't fight on horseback anymore, but they keep the images of old."
However much the poem's language favors the ancient form, it ends with the father's pledge to carry out the current fight. 
"I swear by God the great," the poet writes, "that I shall fight the infidel."

Of Exile and Betrayal
The introduction to this Arabic language poem, which was found with Al Qaeda documents in an abandoned house in Kabul, says,"Half of the verses of this poem are by the poet Dr. Abd-ar-Rahman al-Ashmawi, and the other half are by Sheik Osama bin Laden."

The Travail of a Child Who Has Left the Land of the Holy Shrines

"Father, where is the way out of all our troubles ?
 When are we to have a settled home?
 Oh, father, do you not
 See encircling danger?
 Long have you made me travel, father,
 Through deserts and through settled lands.
 Long have you made me travel, father,
 In many a sloping valley,
 So I forget my kinsfolk,
 My cousins, and all men.
 How is it our house has vanished
 From our sight, leaving no trace?
 Why has my mother not returned?
 How strange! Has she taken a taste to travel?
 And my dear brother -- may I be his ransom! 
 Time has passed and he does not appear.
 Why in our area do we see
 Nothing but parapets and pits?
 Is it because America has come
 Manipulating funds and media?
 You, father, do not crave
 An easy living from mankind.
 It is eternity that awaits us
 If God should will us to prevail.
 Tell me, father, for I find
 No brief, enlightening explanation."
"Forgive me, son, for I am struck
 Both powerless and speechless.
 My tongue is tied. My eyes are flowing springs.
 My consciousness is hell.
 What can I say when living in a world
 Of contention and of recklessness?
 What can I utter to a world bereft
 Of physical and moral vision,
 Where nations are bought and sold
 In an inflationary and speculative trade?
 Forgive me, son, for nothing do I see 
 In our terrain but a declivity.
 A decade has passed, whose years were spent
 In homelessness and wanderings.
 Of whom do you enquire? Of a people
 Reduced to stupor?
 I have migrated westward
 To a land where flows the Nile.
 Of Khartoum I love the character,
 But I was not permitted to reside.
 So then I traveled eastward
 Where there are men of radiant brows.
Kabul holds its head up high
 Despite the hardship and the danger.
 Kabul, with a smiling face,
 Offers all-comers shelter and help.
 Sheik Yunus there appears 
 A lion who strikes terror when he roars,
 As, marked by manliness and pride,
 Does our commander, Mullah Omar."
"Why, father, have they sent
 These missiles, thick as rain,
 Showing mercy neither to a child
 Nor to a man shattered by old age?
 Father, what has happened
 So we are pursued by perils?
 Father, what has happened
 So your likenesses are on placards?
 Is your redeeming of an ancient house
 A crime that cannot be forgiven?
 Here are we, locked in tragedy:
 All safety gone -- it does not show itself.
 It is a world of criminality, my son,
 Where children are, like cattle, slaughtered.
 Zion is murdering my brothers,
 And the Arabs hold a congress!
 They are America's henchmen,
 Blinded and devoid of vision.
 Nothing but ink on paper. They neither
 Are truthful, nor have they made a difference.
 Why have they not equipped a force
 To shield the little one from harm?
 This, by your Lord, is a major brand
 Of shame to be recorded,
 A treachery being pieced together --
 Is our defense to come from traitors?
 I swear by God the great
 That I shall fight the infidel." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (88%); LITERATURE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%) TERRORISM; ARABIC LANGUAGE; POETRY AND POETS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; COLE (USS); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%) ;ASHMAWI, ABDAR-RAHMAN AL- (DR); BIN LADEN, OSAMA; ROHDE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SUDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (52%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); YEMEN; KABUL (AFGHANISTAN); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



180 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF; 
Judge to Make Decision On Cable Across Sound

BYLINE:  By John Rather 

 BODY:
In a case with implications for power supplies on Long Island this summer, Judge Carl J. Schuman of Superior Court in New Britain, Conn., will decide this week whether to bar installation of a 330-megawatt electric cable across Long Island Sound until at least June. The delay would allow the judge time to hear a challenge to the project brought by Attorney General Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and the City of New Haven.
 Mr. Blumenthal and the city have filed suit to reverse an approval that the Connecticut Siting Council gave the project. The suit argues that laying the 24-mile cable from New Haven to Shoreham could damage shellfish beds and cause other environmental damage and would deliver power to Long Island without economic benefit to Connecticut. 
 Richard M. Kessel, the chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, said the authority was supporting Trans-Energie, the cable developer, in arguing that the cable not be delayed. He said that the Connecticut officials were being shortsighted. 
"If the court decides that they will not allow the cable until the whole case is heard, that would likely kill the cable for this summer," he said. "And that could lead to shortages in Connecticut and the Northeast as sure as on Long Island."
The Army Corps of Engineers approved the project last month but said the cable had to be in place by June 1 to avoid harm to shellfish and winter flounder. Failure to meet the deadline would delay the project until fall. The authority said that laying of the cable would have to begin by early May to beat the deadline.
Mr. Kessel has said that electricity delivered on the cable and produced by 10 small power units the company is installing would be needed to avoid power shortages in heat waves this summer. John Rather

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); FISHES (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENGINEERING (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (54%); ARMIES (52%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHELLFISH; WIRE AND CABLE 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (90%) BLUMENTHAL, RICHARD (ATTY GEN); SCHUMAN, CARL (JUDGE); RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONNECTICUT; NEW BRITAIN (CONN); LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW HAVEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



181 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Are You Ready for 'Survivor: The Hamptons'? 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
IN a Manhattan editing room, beneath a Warhol portrait of Mick Jagger, Barbara Kopple, the Academy Award-wining documentary filmmaker, soldiered away last week, piecing together her latest expose.
 Posters from her previous films decorated the walls, for "Harlan County, U.S.A.," a saga about Kentucky coal miners for which she won an Oscar in 1977 when she was 21, and "American Dream," a film about striking Minnesota meatpackers, Oscar No. 2. 
 If striking meatpackers are looking for a champion these days, they had better look elsewhere. On the other hand, if your last name is Hilton or Grubman: beware. 
Last week, Ms. Kopple was poring over several hundred hours of video footage of Alec Baldwin, Christie Brinkley, Lizzie Grubman, Kathy Hilton and Russell Simmons -- distilling the melodramatic summer of 2001 in the Hamptons into the stuff of cinema verite. 
Billing the project as the first "reality miniseries," ABC will broadcast "The Hamptons" in two two-hour segments on June 2 and 3. Viewers will see Ms. Grubman, the perennially tanned publicist, speaking of how the season doesn't really start for her until the Fourth of July weekend, in an interview recorded a few weeks before she backed her S.U.V. into a nightclub crowd, injuring 16. 
"The Hamptons" couldn't come at a worse time. It will be shown during a season of doubt and self-scrutiny in New York's wealthiest beach community. For many people who summer or live year-round on Long Island's South Fork, the months Ms. Kopple filmed began as mawkish Grand Guignol, with Ms. Grubman's troubles. The end of the summer brought no relief, only further scandal and sorrow that has continued into 2002. 
And this spring there are reports of a damaged rental market, which could dampen the local economy, and some owners are leaving, too. 
"I will miss the light and the sea and the air," said Richard D. Emery, a lawyer in Manhattan, who has put his Bridgehampton house, steps from the beach, on the market. The crowds and what Mr. Emery characterized as aggressive overbuilding have become too obnoxious. 
"A monstrosity was built next to my house," he said. "There is a three-car garage with a window out the back so when they sit by the pool they can see their cars. Essentially it is an acre and a half of paved-over lot which might as well be the courtyard of an apartment building."
Mr. Emery and his fiancee have bought a house in upstate New York. 
"The good things about the Hamptons are slowly being extinguished and eaten up and destroyed," Steven Gaines, the author of "Philistines at the Hedgerow: Passion and Property in the Hamptons," and a subject in Ms. Kopple's film, said last week. "I think this place is in danger of becoming a carnival."
At least since 1983, when New York magazine ran a cover story proclaiming the Hamptons dead, trend spotters have annually pronounced their verdict on the South Fork's well-being: the Hamptons are over! The Hamptons are back! 
Calling the Hamptons either passe or vibrant has become a cliche. But the tide of public opinion this year seems to be almost uniform: The Hamptons? Whether it's boom or bust, love it or leave it, the events of the last year have left a lingering bad taste in the mouth. 
Many point to the way the Grubman affair divided the community. According to police reports, Ms. Grubman shouted "white trash" at a doorman who would not allow her to park where she wanted outside the Conscience Point nightclub, then backed her Mercedes-Benz S.U.V. into the crowd. She has been charged with assault; her case returns to court April 29.
Old-money residents looked down at her as an example of arriviste bad manners, and the incident galvanized the belief of working-class residents that the rich treat everyone, especially them, with contempt. 
"That was the apotheosis of all the bad things happening out here, the sense of entitlement, the rudeness, hostility, even brewing violence," Mr. Gaines said. "I think people are angry at the Hamptons. People want to see it hurt and made fun of."
At the end of August, Jeff Salaway, an owner of Nick & Toni's restaurant in East Hampton, died in a car accident. The sense of community loss was swiftly overtaken by Sept. 11. In October, the banker Ted Ammon -- in the midst of a bitter divorce -- was found murdered at his East Hampton house. He had been bludgeoned, and the fact that the crime is unsolved has kept alive the community's anxiety. 
But in the world of documentary film, one person's tragedy, hostility or disgrace is another's material. 
The overall Hamptons vision of Ms. Kopple, a filmmaker with an acute social conscience, is not the standard media sound-bite -- playground of the spoiled wealthy. It is more complex, and even tender. 
Last week, as she entered the homestretch of her months of editing, she said she did not set out to take potshots at the well-to-do; that would be too easy.
Sure, there is the couple whose wedding was inspired by Sean Combs's "white party" of 1998, where all the guests were required to wear white, and there is the woman who has decided to spend the summer finding a husband. (Among her requirements: a Porsche, a full head of his own hair, and he has to be Jewish.)
But Ms. Kopple also focused on Marilee Foster, a farmer whose family has lived in the Hamptons for generations; Kenneth Brown, a retired police officer; Ms. Brinkley and her husband, Peter Cook, campaigning for safety at the Millstone Nuclear Power Station -- since renamed Millstone Power Station -- in Waterford, Conn., which they believe is a threat to Long Island. 
Just as Ms. Kopple looked at the lives of waitresses and millionaires, activity in the Hamptons also now tells divergent stories. Many summer renters seem to have decided to stay away this year. Peter Turino, an owner of the property company Dunemere Associates, choosing his words with care, said that prospective tenants are taking their time to sign up. 
"I think what we are experiencing is some sort of delay in the usual rush for rentals," he said. "Looking back on the events of the last year, we're still experiencing a little bit of, I don't know, what some call aftershock."
Suffering from both aftershock and sticker shock, Andrew Friedman, an author of cookbooks and one-time Hamptons renter, said that he and his wife will not return to the area. Instead, they just bought a weekend house in Chatham, N.Y. 
"In my mid-20's, it was where everyone wanted to be," Mr. Friedman, who is in his early 30's, said. "No longer."
He said his main reason for leaving was the high prices. 
"For half of what you pay in the Hamptons, you get something beautiful in Chatham, or Bucks County," he said. He and his wife, Caitlin Connelly, spent one weekend looking at Hamptons houses for sale, and what they saw for enormous prices, he said, "would just make you cry."
Jeff Jones, a carpenter whose family has lived on Flying Point Road in Southampton for 15 generations, said that he was considering leaving if a proposed house is built on swampland across the street. 
Pointing out a few red flags planted into the soft earth, he said: "If this goes up, I go. It's stuff like this, like all of last year, that leaves a real bad taste in my mouth." 
Some real estate agents, Judi Desiderio of Cook Pony Farm among them, say that sales are brisk. "One set of buyers has an investment mentality, and they are taking money out of the stock market and putting it in a house," she said. "The other set are people who want to own a home or retire here. Both are out in full force."
And local businessmen are optimistic. Phil Biscoglio, the manager of La Carezza, a beauty salon in Southampton, said that while the events of the last year left some traumatic memories, they did not necessarily leave commercial scars. The salon's clients, he said, are already booking their summer appointments.
"We are busy, we are starting to get e-mails and phone calls from people who will be out for the summer and are booking appointments through September," he said. "No one is saying, 'Take me out of the book because the Hamptons are dead.' "
Mr. Biscoglio said that the only person who would be affected was Ms. Grubman. "She probably won't be spending the summer out here," he said.
While Ms. Kopple's "Hamptons" is sure to reopen some wounds, it will also, the filmmaker said, show the side of the community that makes people want to return. "Every town has its tragedies, and deaths, and sorrows, no matter how wealthy," she said. "Wealth doesn't protect people from that."
"But people will see how beautiful it is," she added, with a regard for her own personal power that would make Hamptonites proud. "After this series runs, I bet there will be a surge of popularity."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A SUMMER PLACE -- Barbara Kopple's documentary of Hamptons life takes in, clockwise from top, the house beverage; the cruising set; a wedding; citizen Billy Joel; the molasseslike traffic; and Lizzie Grubman, before Conscience Point. (ABC)(pg. 1); BITTER -- Jeff Jones, a carpenter, sees the Hamptons as a paradise approaching ruin. He is considering leaving.; BATTERED -- After Lizzie Grubman plowed into Conscience Point nightclub patrons in July, a pall settled in.; BEREAVED -- September brought the car-crash death of Jeff Salaway, an owner of Nick & Toni's, a popular spot. (Photographs by Gordon M. Grant for the New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); COAL MINING (57%) TELEVISION 

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (73%); MICK JAGGER (73%) KOPPLE, BARBARA; KUCZYNSKI, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) HAMPTONS, THE (NY)

TITLE: HAMPTONS, THE (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



182 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
The Few, the Proud, the Consistent Winners

BYLINE:  By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN 

 BODY:
IN stock mutual funds, as in many things, it's not very crowded at the very top.
 The last decade has been kind to many funds; they enjoyed some great years and high returns over all. Even so, only a relative handful have managed strong performance without losing money in even one year. 
 Of the 4,058 equity portfolios tracked by Morningstar Inc., just 54, or a little more than 1 percent, avoided losing money in any year from 1992 through 2001. Of those 54 funds, 31 also succeeded in beating the 13.3 percent average annual return of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over those 10 years. 
"You need a rather unique fund to pass these tests," said Gerald Perritt, editor of Gerald Perritt's Mutual Fund Letter in Largo, Fla. "This is a pretty elite group."
Members of it do share some characteristics, most notably the long tenure of their managers. At 14 of the top 31, the managers have run the fund for at least a decade. By contrast, the average tenure of equity fund managers is less than five years, according to Morningstar. Eleven of those 14 funds are open to individual investors.
Their managers use a variety of approaches, but most emphasize value in their stock-picking and say they have been chastened by years of market turmoil.
Experience "produces caution," said George A. Mairs III, who has run Mairs & Power Growth, one of the 11 funds, for 22 years. "You no longer have that youthful enthusiasm, and you've seen a lot of volatile markets over the years," Mr. Mairs added. His $823.4 million fund has returned 18.4 percent a year, on average, over the last 10 years.
In fact, these funds generally take a mild-mannered, risk-conscious approach. 
"We're trying to assess the value of a company relative to its stock price," said Joel C. Tillinghast, who has run Fidelity Low-Priced Stock, another fund on the list, for 12 years. "When the news is unfavorable, the stock should not go down as much, because the value is still there," Mr. Tillinghast said. The fund has earned 17.4 percent a year over the last decade.
A similar price-conscious approach characterizes Dodge & Cox Stock, which has a 10-year average annual return of 17 percent.
"We always ask ourselves, 'If things don't go well, how much downside does the stock have?' " said John A. Gunn, the president and chief investment officer of Dodge & Cox Investment Management.
"To me, it's a matter of avoiding mistakes," Mr. Gunn added. "The money manager who wins over time is the one who makes the fewest mistakes."
The average tenure of the eight managers who run the Dodge & Cox Stock fund is 23 years.
Attention to value extends to the few growth-oriented managers on the list. Mr. Mairs likes to buy attractive growth companies, but he waits until he considers the stock reasonably priced. Last year, he jumped on beaten-down drug stocks like Merck, which has typically sold for 28 times earnings in the last five years, but was selling for one-third of that multiple at the end of the first quarter.
The managers of the Federated Kaufmann fund, Lawrence Auriana and Hans Utsch, said a decision they made in 2000 -- to cut the fund's stake in technology stocks to 12 percent from 40 percent -- helped it avoid the major losses experienced by its growth-stock peers over the last two years. The managers said they believed that prices had gotten out of hand.
"When you get to 60 times earnings, that's pretty hard to justify even if the company is growing fast," Mr. Auriana said. Federated Kaufmann has returned 15.1 percent a year, on average, over the last 10 years. The two managers have run the fund for 16 years.
Many of these funds' managers look for companies that can generate steady earnings growth. That often means companies that have strong franchises or are market leaders -- characteristics that also help control risk. Mr. Tillinghast at Fidelity, for example, focuses on companies that have a high proportion of recurring revenue. In the technology sector, that leads him to outsourcing providers like Affiliated Computer Services, which offers back-office systems integration and transaction processing. The company's operating income has never declined in any quarter in the last seven years, Mr. Tillinghast said.
These winning funds are also distinguished by their relatively low levels of trading. The average money manager turns over his or her entire portfolio once a year, but these managers generally keep their stocks for two years or more. Until 2000, when turnover inched up to 15 percent of assets because of company takeovers, the average stock in Mairs & Power Growth had been in the fund for more than 10 years. Dodge & Cox Stock has tended to hold its investments for five years or more.
"There are some very long-term-focused managers here," said Russel Kinnel, director of fund analysis at Morningstar. That approach tends to focus these managers on business fundamentals.
THE managers of Dodge & Cox Stock, for example, say they always ask themselves whether they would be buying a stock if they could not trade it for four years. "The result is you end up looking to the company to provide the returns, not other investors," Mr. Gunn said.
Mr. Perritt, the newsletter editor, said: "I love funds with low turnover ratios. If someone takes the time to buy a stock, low turnover indicates they have confidence in the stock over the long term."
These funds are penny pinchers, tending to have low expenses. The average domestic stock fund has an expense ratio of 1.4 percent of assets, but the figure is just 0.54 percent at Dodge & Cox Stock and 0.8 percent at Mairs & Powers Growth. An exception is Federated Kaufmann, at 1.9 percent. "We've been able to justify that expense with above-average returns, and more importantly, with consistent returns," Mr. Auriana said. But these funds have not always excelled. Because of their low-octane approach, several, including Mairs & Power Growth, Fidelity Low-Priced Stock, Dodge & Cox Stock, and American Funds Washington Mutual Class A shares, posted only single-digit returns in 1998 or 1999 when the S.& P. 500 was up 28.6 percent and 21 percent, respectively.
Funds outside this group, of course, may be better overall performers. The Legg Mason Value Trust fund, for example, lost 7.1 percent percent in 2000 and an additional 9.3 percent in 2001, yet still ranks among the top 1 percent of large-cap value funds and has beaten the S.& P. 500 every year over the last 10 years, for an average annual return of 17.7 percent through March.
Nor are the funds that have not lost money in the last 10 years without risk. Many of them lost money in 1990, when the economy fell into recession and value-oriented stocks were hit hard.
In addition, management of some of these funds is likely to change in coming years. Mr. Mairs, for example, is scheduled to step down from his fund in June 2003. 
Some managers question whether it even makes sense to pick funds on the basis of their having not lost money in the last 10 years.
"A calendar-year scorecard is very arbitrary," said Charles M. Royce, manager of Royce Premier, which has returned 14.1 percent a year and has not lost money in a single year in the last 10 years. "We didn't set out to do that," he added. "It's a byproduct of sticking to our risk-management discipline."
Certainly, there are no guarantees that this elite group will not suffer losing years. "There will be periods when our style is out of favor, and sometimes we make mistakes," Mr. Auriana said.
Nevertheless, these funds deserve investors' attention, many analysts say. Dodge & Cox Stock, Dodge & Cox Balanced, Mairs & Power Growth and T. Rowe Price Equity Income are on Mr. Perritt's recommended list. 
Mr. Kinnel said, "If I were looking for dependable, high-quality, low-risk funds, Fidelity Low-Priced Stock, Dodge & Cox Stock, Washington Mutual and T. Rowe Price Equity Income would be at the top of my list."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John A. Gunn, left, president and chief investment officer of Dodge & Cox Investment Management, and his executive team. "The money manager who wins over time is the one who makes the fewest mistakes," he says. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Chart: "Strong and Steady"Over the last decade, relatively few mutual funds have outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index without losing money in a single calendar year. Some of those top-performing funds are below. FUND NAME: Mairs & Power Growth10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 18.4%MANAGER(S): George A. Mairs III FUND NAME: Fidelity Low-Priced Stock10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 17.4MANAGER(S): Joel C. Tillinghast FUND NAME: Dodge & Cox Stock10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 17.0MANAGER(S): Management team FUND NAME: Permanent Portfolio Aggressive Growth10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 16.2MANAGER(S): Terence Coxon FUND NAME: Federated Kaufmann K10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 15.1MANAGER(S): Auriana/Utsch FUND NAME: American Funds Washington Mutual A10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 14.7MANAGER(S): Armour/Bepler/Dunton FUND NAME: Royce Premier10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 14.1MANAGER(S): Charles M. Royce FUND NAME: Meridian Growth10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 14.1MANAGER(S): Richard F. Aster Jr. FUND NAME: T. Rowe Price Equity Income10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 14.1MANAGER(S): Brian C. Rogers FUND NAME: Parnassus10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 14.0MANAGER(S): Jerome L. Dodson FUND NAME: Dodge & Cox Balanced10-YEAR ANNUALIZED RETURN (THROUGH FIRST QUARTER): 13.7MANAGER(S): Management team (Source: Morningstar)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BONDS (77%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: CHRISTIE HEFNER (60%) KAHN, VIRGINIA MUNGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



183 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MUSEUM MILE; 
The Mayor's Courthouse Plan Strands Yet Another Museum

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
Like a deceptive chess move, perhaps it was too good to be true. The Museum of the City of New York would move into the newly renovated Tweed Courthouse, and El Museo del Barrio, the cramped museum for Latino arts at 104th Street and Fifth Avenue, would move one block south into its stately and vacant space.
 The maneuver would have allowed El Museo, housed in a retrofitted orphanage, to oversee two sites, maintain close ties to its East Harlem roots and expand its gallery space sixfold. Its top donors wholeheartedly agreed, and pledged to underwrite the move, conservatively estimated at $8 million. 
 "El Museo is the ideal successor," officials from the museum wrote to the city earlier this year. "The plan would double El Museo's program space and transform it into the nation's leading museum for the display of Latin American and Latino art."
When the plan famously unraveled last month after Mayor Bloomberg reneged on his predecessor's promise and said he wanted the Tweed Courthouse to go to the Board of Education, sympathy cards landed at the Museum of the City of New York. But in some ways, out of the spotlight, El Museo has been hit just as hard.
"Everybody here was surprised," said Susana Torruella Leval, El Museo's director. "It seemed like a done deal, and we had a major commitment to do this."
El Museo was founded in 1969 by a group of Puerto Rican artists and activists from East Harlem, and was initially housed in a local classroom. In 1977, the museum moved into the city-owned Heckscher Foundation building, which it shares with a half-dozen other tenants, including the Parks Department. The gallery is on the ground floor, and its offices are scattered about the third.
A year ago, the city's Economic Development Corporation began reviewing proposals for the city museum's current building, a neo-Georgian landmark. Submissions arrived from other institutions, including the Museum of African Art in SoHo, but El Museo was widely considered the front-runner. 
"Should we vacate the building, it was our hope that El Museo would move in," said Patti Ogden, a spokeswoman for the Museum of the City of New York. The museum has "no immediate plans to move," she added, but she acknowledged that museum trustees were "in preliminary exploration of other spaces in Lower Manhattan."
Such talk has kept El Museo's hopes alive, even while it, too, is looking at other spaces. Among them is 2 Columbus Circle, the former Gallery of Modern Art, a space Donald J. Trump also has his eye on. 
"In a strange way, the fact that it didn't happen just made us react more strongly" that the museum needs to grow, said Tony Bechara, an artist who is chairman of El Museo. "We're trying to represent the art, culture and history of almost one-third of the city's population. We aspire to, no more or no less than, what the Asia Society or the Jewish Museum has." DENNY LEE

GRAPHIC: Photo: El Museo del Barrio hoped to move a block south. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) Chart gives a summary of El Museo del Barrio's collection.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%) TWEED COURTHOUSE (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO (NYC); MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); RICK PERRY (51%); DONALD TRUMP (50%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; LEE, DENNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



184 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2225 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
Did Pay Incentives Cut Both Ways?

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
FOR corporate directors and chief executives, 2001 presented a test: were they really willing, in a down year, to link executive pay to corporate performance?
 Just as the nation's top executives received fat raises during the 1990's boom, those who had tied pay to their companies' results were almost certainly going to receive leaner paychecks last year, when profits suffered their worst annual decline in decades. But in the clubby culture of the boardroom, many executives also knew that they could convince their directors to overlook the bottom line and keep the raises coming -- if the directors had not already taken it upon themselves to look the other way. 
 The results were a split decision: Companies divided into two roughly equal-sized groups. The first half, which appears to believe in paying for performance, cut the pay of the top executive for the first time in years. The other half, which seems to believe simply in paying a lot, reacted to a year of recession and war often by creating the impression they had reduced pay without actually doing so. 
At Boeing, Eli Lilly and nearly every large brokerage firm, executives and shareholders suffered the financial consequences of a disappointing year together. By contrast, Kenneth I. Chenault at American Express, Douglas N. Daft at Coca-Cola, John T. Chambers at Cisco Systems and top executives at many other companies received big raises or bonuses even though they had missed the goals they had set for themselves at the start of the year. 
Mr. Chambers, with a pay package of $154 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, finished at the top of a pay survey of 200 large companies conducted for Money & Business by Pearl Meyer & Partners, a consulting firm in New York. For the calendar year, Richard D. Fairbank of the Capital One Financial Corporation, made the most -- $99.7 million.
Over all, the average compensation for chief executives declined 8 percent, to $15.5 million, as the tough economic conditions wiped out many of the truly enormous paychecks, the survey showed. It was the first decline in nine years, Pearl Meyer said.
But as the largest awards became smaller, pay for the typical chief executive continued to climb. The median compensation rose 7 percent -- about twice the raise that the average American worker received -- to $9.1 million, at the 200 companies. Profits fell 35 percent at the typical company. 
"This was a year of separation," said Patrick S. McGurn, the director of corporate programs at Institutional Shareholder Services, which advises large investors. "We separated the pay-for-performance folks from the pay-for-failure folks."
The median base salary jumped 4 percent in 2001. Many boards also made up for declining bonuses, which are often directly linked to results, by awarding more valuable packages of stock options and more shares of stock. In some cases, directors called the awards "retention grants," meant to keep executives in place for the next few years.
Pay experts said external events played a role in determining last year's compensation packages, as executives had reason to avoid appearing greedy. "Political pressure had a huge impact on bonus decisions and salary decisions," said Jannice L. Koors, a vice president at Pearl Meyer.
As a recession weakened the American economy, chief executives oversaw the elimination of many of the one million jobs lost last year. In the weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks, the recession worsened and executives joined policy makers in saying Americans would have to make sacrifices during tough times.
The managers of mutual funds and pension funds, meanwhile, along with other large institutional investors, stepped up their criticism of stock option grants last year, saying they were badly diluting the stakes of existing shareholders. By the final month of 2001, executive pay occupied arguably its largest place in the public debate in almost a decade, after people learned that many Enron executives had made millions of dollars as their company was collapsing and that rank-and-file employees had lost their life savings.
"Boards are asking, 'Would this embarrass us?' " said Ira T. Kay, the director of the compensation practice at Watson Wyatt, the consulting firm. "They are incredibly sensitive."
MANY companies reacted in the most straightforward way possible: they cut executive pay. Some reduced the amount of stock and options they gave to executives, and others simply stuck to the formulas they had created to calculate performance-based pay. 
"These plans are doing what they were designed to do -- paying for performance," said Peter T. Chingos, the top pay consultant at William M. Mercer.
Although their compensation remains huge by any standard, executives of such companies took a significant reduction in pay. David H. Komansky, the head of Merrill Lynch, received $18 million, down 53 percent from 2000. F. Duane Ackerman of BellSouth made $14.2 million, down 19 percent. James D. Sinegal of Costco Wholesale made $3.3 million, one-third less than in 2000.
In all, one out of every five chief executives received no bonus in 2001, according to Pearl Meyer. The typical bonus fell 23 percent.
"It's very important that executive pay be aligned with shareholder interests," said Sidney Taurel, the chief executive of Eli Lilly, the pharmaceutical company that makes Prozac and other drugs. "This is the best way to create shareholder value." 
Mr. Taurel's compensation fell 49 percent in 2001, to $11.2 million, and for this year he has agreed to take a base salary of $1 and expects neither a bonus nor a stock grant, only stock options, he said. "Since I'm asking sacrifices of everyone," he said. "I thought I should provide an example."
Perhaps others will follow suit. But pay experts said 2001 offered further evidence that the system for determining executive pay is often a rigged game. 
Boards typically hire compensation consultants to help set pay, but chief executives usually work closely with the consultants to devise the proposal made to the board. By and large, directors approve the deal, perhaps because the chief executive knows far more about the company than they do or because they themselves are chief executives whose compensation is partially determined by average pay across the top ranks of corporate America. Nearly every company wants to offer its executives "above average" compensation, often in the top quartile of its peers, and that automatically ratchets up the entire scale year after year.
MR. CHAMBERS, at Cisco Systems, typified the ways that boards raised pay even as they appeared to be reducing it. He received $268,000 in cash, down from $1.3 million the previous year, as Cisco lost $1 billion and its stock fell 71 percent in the fiscal year ended last June 30. But Cisco's board gave him six million stock options, up from four million in 2000, allowing the estimated value of his pay to climb 32 percent.
Cisco's compensation committee, led by Carol A. Bartz, a technology executive, gave Mr. Chambers the options to keep him focused on the company's earnings, a Cisco spokeswoman said.
Raymond V. Gilmartin of Merck and Richard M. Kovacevich of Wells Fargo also presided over disappointing years but took home hefty raises.
Even some companies that did reduce executive pay still gave more than their initial announcements suggested. When John W. Creighton Jr. took the helm of United Airlines last October, he said he would work without salary for 2001, because the airline's parent, the UAL Corporation, was running up record losses, laying off thousands of employees and beginning to ask others to accept pay cuts. 
But Mr. Creighton received 400,000 options with an exercise price of $14.48, the share price on Oct. 28. He can exercise the options anytime in the next 10 years, and even if the stock recovers only to its Sept. 10 value of $30.82, they will be worth more than $6 million.
At many companies, chief executives did swallow pay cuts, but other top executives, whose pay attracts far less scrutiny, received raises, according to Executive Compensation Advisory Services, a firm in Alexandria, Va., that analyzes company filings. 
The Walt Disney Company, for example, failed to reach the goals that Michael D. Eisner, the chief executive, had set. So he received no bonus and $1 million in total compensation, $16 million less than he had received the previous year.
 But the board's pay committee, led by Thomas S. Murphy, a former Disney executive, ignored its performance standards for three other top executives -- Louis M. Meisinger, Peter E. Murphy and Thomas O. Staggs -- and paid them bonuses of $300,000 to $1 million. Because the pay was not tied to performance, Disney lost tax deductions on some of it.
"Sometimes, you have the C.E.O. falling on his sword while protecting the next level of leadership, who could be easily recruited away," said Steven E. Hall, a managing director at Pearl Meyer.
BOARDS that changed their pay standards in midstream often defended the switch by saying they thought the executives had done a good job, and deserved a raise, despite the company's financial results.
"While the company's 2001 financial performance fell short of its long-term objectives," the compensation committee of the American Express board wrote in its proxy statement, "the committee used its judgment about each individual's annual goal and leadership performance to make discretionary awards" as warranted. 
For Mr. Chenault, the chief executive, the board's judgment translated into $5.9 million in cash, $8.3 million of stock and an estimated $17 million worth of options.
That kind of policy change upset both small and large shareholders, as well as executives who did take a pay cut. During the long economic boom and bull market of the 1990's, compensation for the typical chief executive soared, and the executives often said the raises were rewards for their roles in creating the boom. 
Now, critics say the relationship between pay and performance should also hold in difficult times. 
"Our shareholders bore the impact of all that happened last year," said Jon A. Boscia, the chief executive of the Lincoln Financial Group, an investment company based in Philadelphia, and a director at Hershey Foods. "They have a right to expect that we, the hired help of the company, are always looking out for their best interests and not our own personal interests."
"We spent time making sure people understood they didn't do a bad job, that it was out of their control," said Mr. Boscia, whose pay fell by more than one-third last year, to roughly $9 million. "But we would be doing less than our fiduciary duty to shareholders if we pretended it didn't happen."
Still, the recent controversy over executive pay at Enron and a handful of other struggling companies could be a turning point, making pay panels more active, consultants say. 
In the past, said Gary M. Locke, a co-leader of the compensation practice at Towers Perrin, the management consulting firm, compensation committees tended simply to supervise the pay process, remaining in what he called a "nose in, fingers out" mode. But, he added, "they're definitely putting their fingers in now."
Mr. Kay of Watson Wyatt said he recently attended a board meeting of a company whose stock had dropped significantly. The directors decided not to allow employees to exchange seemingly worthless stock options for actual shares of stock because the board thought the swap would make the company look as if it did not believe in paying for performance.
Other consultants said the compensation committees of a few companies had recently hired advisers to work only with the committee, not with the chief executive. And at least one perk -- the sweetheart loans that many boards gave their top executives -- may be a thing of the past, because it was a revolving loan that allowed Kenneth L. Lay, the former head of Enron, to sell almost two million shares of company stock quietly.
"Loans are dead," said Frederic W. Cook, who runs a pay consulting firm that bears his name. "You're not going to see them again." 
OF course, executive pay received similar criticism in the early 90's, when the economy was stagnating. At the urging of a newly elected Bill Clinton, Congress passed a law limiting the tax deductions for pay above $1 million and not based on a company's performance.
It did little to restrain executive pay, however, and as the economy improved, compensation for chief executives took off. Even as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell during the last two years, the raises continued. While the fallout from Enron's collapse could reverse the trend, last year could also end up as a low point for executive raises, because the economy turned around so quickly.
Ms. Koors of Pearl Meyer noted that most companies award stock-option grants in the middle of the year, shortly after they determine the previous year's bonus. In coming months, executives still smarting from a reduced bonus may ask their boards to be generous.
"We may see option grants this year to make up for last year's bonuses," she said.
That, and an improving economy, could return executive pay to its previous, steep trajectory.
"Things will be back to normal next year," predicted Judith Fischer, managing director of Executive Compensation Advisory Services.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sidney Taurel, chief of Eli Lilly, faces a big pay reduction himself as he asks employees to make sacrifices. (Associated Press); John W. Creighton Jr., above, worked without a salary last year as the new chief of the money-losing UAL. Raymond V. Gilmartin, right, received a big raise at Merck despite a disappointing year. Michael D. Eisner, below, of Disney did not get a bonus. (Associated Press); (Shana Raab for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. 6); Compensation for Richard M. Kovacevich, the chief executive of Wells Fargo, rose 75 percent last year while the company's net income fell. (Associated Press)(pg. 7) Drawing (Ed Lam)(pg. 1) Chart: "Bad Year? They Won" JOHN T. CHAMBERSCisco Systems -- The company lost $1 billion. He made $154 million. KENNETH I. CHENAULTAmerican Express -- He missed his goals, but the board still paid his bonus. Bad Year? They Lost PHILIP M. CONDITBoeing -- With the stock down 42 percent, his pay fell 78 percent. JAMES D. SINEGALCostco Wholesale -- Profits dropped. So did his pay, by 33 percent.(pg. 1) Chart: "Top of the World"These chief executives were the highest paid among the heads of 200 large companies that have filed results for their 2001 fiscal year. John T. ChambersCOMPANY: Cisco SystemsTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: $154.3 Gerald M. LevinCOMPANY: AOL Time WarnerTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 147.6 Richard D. FairbankCOMPANY: Capital One FinancialTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 99.7 Edward E. Whitacre Jr.COMPANY: SBC CommunicationsTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 88.9 William T. EsreyCOMPANY: SprintTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 82.4 L. Dennis KozlowskiCOMPANY: Tyco InternationalTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 80.3 Douglas N. DaftCOMPANY: Coca-ColaTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 74.2 Alfred LernerCOMPANY: MBNATOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 60.3 Richard H. BrownCOMPANY: Electronic Data SystemsTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 59.5 James J. MulvaCOMPANY: Phillips PetroleumTOTAL COMPENSATION, FISCAL 2001, IN MILLIONS: 51.8 (Source: Pearl Meyer & Partners)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); EXECUTIVES (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MERIT PAY (78%); SALARY SURVEYS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RECESSION (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (64%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); BOEING CO (55%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (51%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (64%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); LEL (LSE) (55%); KO (NYSE) (54%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%); RICHARD M KOVACEVICH (79%); RICHARD D FAIRBANK (69%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (50%); SIDNEY TAUREL (50%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



185 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Campaigns For Trade Pacts On Asian Trip 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: BINTAN, Indonesia, April 6 

 BODY:
The United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, toured high-tech plants on two tiny Indonesian islands just south of Singapore today to show that the countries of Southeast Asia could stand up to the looming economic force of China through trade cooperation. 
 Mr. Zoellick peered into microscopes used for checking for imperfections in plastic contact lens and chatted with Indonesian workers on an assembly line of memory chips designed for digital cameras. 
 The point of the exotic locale -- the islands of Batam and Bintan on the northern edge of the Indonesian archipelago -- demonstrated, he said, that if countries like Indonesia and Singapore worked together on trade arrangements, both would benefit from foreign investment. The contact lens plant that Mr. Zoellick toured is owned by an American company, Ciba Vision, that is headquartered in Atlanta. 
The visit today was part of an Asian trip by Mr. Zoellick intended to give confidence to Southeast Asian countries that were battered by the region's financial crisis five years ago and that now fear China's strengthening economic shadow. 
In less than a decade, according to Singapore government figures, China has managed to attract much of the foreign direct investment that poured into the 10 countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, known as Asean, during their years of expansion in the 1980's and 1990's. In the early 1990's, China received about 30 percent of the foreign investment in the region and the then-booming economies of Southeast Asia received about 60 percent.
Now, China is receiving about 60 percent of the foreign investment, Singapore says, and the investment has accelerated most markedly in the last several years as China's membership in the World Trade Organization became more certain. 
To help offset what the United States views as an unhealthy imbalance between China and the smaller countries to the south, Mr. Zoellick urged these countries to reduce trade barriers among themselves to attract more outside investment. 
Mr. Zoellick attended a meeting of Southeast Asian trade ministers in Bangkok on Friday, where the idea of an overall Asean free trade agreement with the United States was discussed. Because the countries of the region are in such varied economic stages, such a pact is a long way off, Mr. Zoellick said. 
A free trade agreement between the United States and Singapore, in the final stages of preparation, probably will be signed by the end of this year, he said. It will include a feature intended to benefit businesses in Indonesia, where the economy is limping after the 1997 Asian meltdown and from security concerns after Sept. 11 in this, the world's most populous Muslim nation. 
Within the free trade agreement, the United States and Singapore have decided that more than 100 information technology items manufactured in the industrial parks would be granted the same free trade agreement status as if they came from Singapore. 
The plants on the tiny Indonesian islands that Mr. Zoellick visited today are located in secure, clean industrial parks only an hour by ferry from Singapore. For American and other foreign companies, these islands provide the benefit of lower wages than Singapore but easy access to Singapore's air and shipping hub, Mr. Zoellick said. 
The Indonesian minister for trade and industry, Rini Soewandi, said her government would try to reproduce nationwide the conditions that made the two industrial parks attractive to outside investors. Indonesia provides speedy custom clearance, tax incentives and other advantages for businesses on the island, she said. 
For the Indonesian workers, most of them women aged 18 to 21, the jobs on the islands are highly prized. A starting salary at one of the plants is $60 a month, about twice the amount the women said they would earn in their home provinces. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MEMORY CHIPS (56%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (91%) PERLEZ, JANE; ZOELLICK, ROBERT B (TRADE REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (92%) SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (97%); SINGAPORE (96%); ASIA (96%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (94%); THAILAND (79%) INDONESIA; CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



186 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: For Dogged German Challenger, It's Still About the Economy 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 6 

 BODY:
Starchy and dry, Edmund Stoiber, the conservative challenger to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, becomes really animated about two things: economic data, which he reels off like a relentless professor, and the humiliating pit into which he believes Germany has fallen during the Schroder years.
 Asked why he wants to become chancellor in the Sept. 22 elections, Mr. Stoiber, 60, finally lets loose: "We rank last in Europe in terms of economic growth. We have the biggest growth of unemployment in Western Europe. The stable Germany of the past gets a blue letter," a warning from the European Union about its increasing budget deficit. Moreover, he said, the president of Italy, Carlo Ciampi, "said he was worried about the stability of the euro because of Germany." 
 Mr. Stoiber says this with apparent shock, shaking his head, his eyes widening underneath his rimless glasses. 
"We are criticized by the Greeks and Spaniards and Italians," Mr. Stoiber repeats. "They all blame us. This is something new. Ten years ago, this would be impossible. And politicians are responsible for this."
A soccer team in last place normally changes its coach, he said, adding, "People are not masochists in our country."
Mr. Stoiber, known variously as a dour bureaucrat and the steely "Bavarian pit bull," is trying to ride Germany's economic malaise and fears of foreigners and crime to victory over the personable, television-friendly Mr. Schroder. Mr. Stoiber's own first campaign venture into television chat in January was a disaster, showing him anxious and even tongue-tied, feeding columnists and comics material for weeks.
"It damaged him in the beginning, but people will forget," said his biographer, Peter Kopf. "He's Mr. Control, but his advisers kept pushing him to be careful and appeal to the middle, to be a different person."
Mr. Stoiber's advisers hope to prepare him better before television debates with Mr. Schroder that will be a climax to the long campaign.
But Mr. Stoiber is in good form in a small group. In an interview with American journalists before a planned trip to Washington, he tried to show his familiarity with foreign policy, urged an even closer relationship with the United States and worked to undercut any idea that he is a provincial xenophobe, while defending restrictions on immigration.
He urges the European Union to find "a more uniform policy" and promises that Germany would try "to create a closer coherence in the trans-Atlantic alliance," with friendly criticism about American policies delivered privately, "in a spirit of close solidarity with the Americans."
He urged the European Union to find "a more uniform policy," though how a Stoiber-led government could produce such harmonization from countries as different as France and Greece he did not say. He did promise to try to improve Franco-German relations, "the very premise of European development," and without which "European integration is not possible."
In general, he said, the European Union should develop "new competencies in foreign and defense policy" and meddle less in other areas, like agriculture.
But Mr. Stoiber, like the German foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, says that Germans are not convinced that a war to overthrow Iraq's leader, Saddam Hussein, is necessary or sensible. "Germans don't feel threatened by Saddam Hussein" in the way the Bush administration does, Mr. Stoiber said. "The Americans should make it clear" what threats Iraq poses to Europe and the world in order to build "acceptance in principle" for any military action there.
Asked if he himself feels a significant threat from Iraq, Mr. Stoiber evaded the question, saying that "as an opposition politician" he was not privy to enough information to judge. He did promise to reverse the decline in Germany's military spending, now less than 1.5 percent of the gross national product, and "stop using the army as a kind of piggy bank for budget savings."
He bristles at the idea that he is the cold manager trying to oust the back-slapping Mr. Schroder. Stern magazine wrote that he had no warmth, but Mr. Stoiber said, "Did you expect Stern to write anything different?" He noted that since he had become the candidate of the Christian Democratic Union and his own Christian Social Union, the parties had opened up a consistent lead in the polls over Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats.
Anyway, Mr. Stoiber said, returning to the theme of competence that suits him best, he has run Bavaria since 1993 much better than Mr. Schroder ever ran Lower Saxony. "I have governed a much more successful state," he said, noting that Bavaria has one of the highest per capita incomes in Germany and one of the lowest unemployment rates. "And he governs Germany like he governed Lower Saxony, where everything has deteriorated. There is less growth than other countries, unemployment is on the rise, the social security system is dysfunctional."
Mr. Stoiber also spun figures in answer to questions about how much he would move to liberalize Germany's labor market, which he himself said was overregulated. He says there is a great area to move between Germany's current labor rigidity and the kind of "American hire-and-fire" policies he thinks Germany will never support.
He wants less regulation and taxes on small businesses and more incentives for self-employed people, and to duplicate Bavaria's privatization of state industry, with its profits turned toward investment in high-tech industry, not simply to expand the government budget.
He wants to get the government's share of the economy to less than 40 percent from its current 48 percent, reduce the top income-tax rate to less than 40 percent from last year's 48.5 percent, and reduce corporate payments for workers for nonwage items like pensions and health insurance to less than 40 percent. "So we say, 'Three times 40.' It's my motto," he said. "The mission of government is not to own but to shape."
Mr. Stoiber, born in a little Bavarian Alpine village called Oberaudorf to a fervently Roman Catholic mother, was educated by nuns, Mr. Kopf said. In contrast to Mr. Schroder, who has been married four times, Mr. Stoiber was married at 27 and lives a traditional family life, with a wife who stays in the background and three children.
He served in the military with a mountain division, went to law school in Munich and entered the bureaucracy immediately, getting his first job in 1971 in Bavaria's ministry for development and the environment.
He rose very quickly, becoming a personal adviser to the Bavarian boss, Franz Jozef Strauss, the next year and soon ran the ministry office. He was elected to the Bavarian Parliament in 1974, became general secretary of his party in 1978, and chief of staff to the prime minister in 1982. He also managed Mr. Strauss's catastrophic campaign for the chancellery -- the last leader of his party to try -- in 1980.
By 1988, Mr. Stoiber was the state's interior minister, becoming prime minister in 1993. He won re-election in 1998 with 52.9 percent of the vote and significant support among workers, solidifying his reputation. 
In January, the conservatives turned to him over the Christian Democrat leader, Angela Merkel, as their best chance of beating Mr. Schroder.
But to Mr. Kopf, Mr. Stoiber remains the didactic, conservative, efficient, bland, stiff and mistrustful manager who instills both respect and "a climate of anxiety" in those who work for him. He has always regarded immigration with anxiety and has appealed to concern about crime, and he has been an important, even cozy, partner for businessmen.
"He's going to have to learn to play on a different level," Mr. Kopf said. "But I think he has a good chance to win."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edmund Stoiber, a candidate for chancellor, will visit Washington. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TRENDS (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); WRITERS (69%); JOURNALISM (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); SOCCER (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%) ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) STOIBER, EDMUND; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); ERLANGER, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); GREECE (77%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



187 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: ARMS INSPECTIONS; 
If Iraq Bends, U.N. Inspectors Are Ready

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6 

 BODY:
After poring over confidential reports and satellite photos, Hans Blix and his United Nations team are preparing to conduct inspections to determine whether Iraq had abandoned its efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction.
 More than 50 inspectors would be based in Baghdad, according to the plan. No sites would be off limits. Iraqi officials would be required to hand over documents about the history of their secret weapons programs. 
 Mr. Blix's plan may be the only way, short of war, for Saddam Hussein and President Bush to resolve their differences over charges that Iraq retains and is still pursuing weapons of mass destruction. So far, however, Iraq and the United States are on a collision course, raising the question of whether Mr. Blix's inspectors will ever have a chance to do their job.
Iraq's new Foreign Minister, Naji Sabri, is scheduled to meet with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, this month. But many diplomats believe that the surge in Israeli-Palestinian violence is likely to make Iraq less willing to cooperate with the United Nations. The theory is that Mr. Hussein's government will conclude that Washington will find it all but impossible to win Arab backing for an offensive against Iraq, thus removing the pressure on Iraq to agree to wide-ranging inspections.
The Bush administration, for its part, has signaled its determination to keep the tensions in the Middle East from distracting it from its goal of confronting Iraq. The administration's strategy seems to be to demand unrestricted inspections, with the expectation that Baghdad will frustrate the request and give Washington a rationale for a military campaign to oust Mr. Hussein.
"I made up my mind that Saddam Hussein needs to go," Mr. Bush said in a television interview this week. "I am confident that we can lead a coalition to pressure Saddam Hussein and to deal with Saddam Hussein."
There are situations in which inspections might yet be an option. For Iraq, accepting them might be the only way to mobilize international support against an American military strike if the Middle East conflict should be defused. For Washington, it might be the only way to contain Iraq's programs to develop nuclear, biological and chemical arms, as well as the missiles to deliver them, if politics preclude Arab support for an American strike.
Given the enmity between Washington and Baghdad, however, a final military reckoning seems the more likely option.
At his United Nations headquarters, Mr. Blix stoically asserted that inspections remained a possibility. "This is our working assumption and we are preparing ourselves for it as best we can," he said.
A former head of the International Atomic Energy Agency and a diplomat from Sweden, Mr. Blix was a compromise choice to serve as chairman of the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission. The organization replaced an earlier monitoring body, the United Nations Special Commission on Iraq, which was disbanded after Iraq thwarted the work of inspectors and the Clinton administration responded in 1998 by ordering air strikes.
Washington initially favored Rolf Ekeus, the original head of the earlier monitoring organization. But his appointment was blocked by Russia and France, which have been eager to see economic sanctions lifted against Iraq and were hopeful that Mr. Blix would be less strict than Mr. Ekeus might have been.
Some American specialists say, however, that Mr. Blix seems determined to take a rigorous approach. Mr. Blix asserts that cosmetic inspections are worse than none at all and that his mandate provides for immediate, unconditional and unrestricted access.
Robert J. Einhorn, a top State Department official during the Clinton administration, said, "The Russians and the French underestimated how tough he would be."
The initial goal set by the United Nations Security Council for Mr. Blix's inspectors is not as sweeping as that established for the earlier group of United Nations monitors. The object is to not prove that Iraq is completely free of weapons of mass destruction but to demonstrate that substantial progress is being made. The reward is more modest too: sanctions would be suspended, not lifted.
"It is a less ambitions agenda but at the same time perhaps one that might be more easily attained," Mr. Blix said in an interview. "It does not require that every last piece of program be eradicated but simply that progress has been made."
Under Mr. Blix's plan, 50 to 100 inspectors at a time would be in Iraq. The pool of potential inspectors would be 230, however, so that a new group would be periodically assigned. Already, potential inspectors have undergone training, including coaching in the sensitivity they would be expected to show toward Islamic culture.
Access to the hundreds of suspected weapons sites is just part of what would be required of Iraq. 
"They will have to help by coming up with the evidence," Mr. Blix said. "They have the archives, the bills of lading and budget documents."
The first stage of inspections, which would take several months, would involve identifying the main tasks Iraq would need to perform to address suspicions about its weapons programs. Given full cooperation, Mr. Blix said that within a year he would likely be able to report significant headway in clearing up discrepancies.
"If we have the kind of cooperation the Security Council has requested, we can get a high level of assurance," he said. "We would not get certainty. Nor do I think you can do it with occupation."
Some former inspectors, however, said they doubt that Iraq would ever provide enough access to demonstrate that it has ended all its weapons program, which is what the inspectors said really counts.
"I am doubtful that Iraq would ever agree to the extraordinary access that would be required, particularly for monitoring biological weapons areas," said Charles A. Duelfer, the deputy chairman of Unscom, the first United Nation organization formed to monitor Iraq.
Iraq's stance will become clearer after Mr., Sabri, its foreign minister, comes to the United Nations in mid-April. At a United Nations meeting last month, the Iraqi delegation professed interest in a resolution but did not agree to inspections. Mr. Sabri also gave Mr. Annan a list of 19 questions that suggested Iraq might not cooperate unless it received assurances from Washington that it would never attack.
"How will the relationship between Iraq and the council be normalized under the present declared U.S. policy, which aims at invading Iraq and overthrowing its national government by force?" was one of the questions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (91%); INSPECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TERRORISM (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%) BLIX, HANS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) IRAQ; ISRAEL; WEST BANK

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



188 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2104 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay: A Special Report; 
Tell the Good News. Then Cash In.

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
THE profits were an illusion. The multimillion-dollar rewards for executives were real.
 Over the last few years, executives at some companies released inaccurate earnings statements and, before correcting them, sold large amounts of stock at inflated prices. At others, executives insisted for months that the recent recession would not much affect their businesses. By the time they acknowledged their error, some had sold millions of shares at prices that were just a memory. 
 It happened at major technology companies like Oracle and Sun Microsystems. It happened at Guess and at Xerox, at Dollar General, a discount retailer, and at Providian Financial, a credit card company. 
The discovery of similar practices at Enron, Global Crossing and other bankrupt companies in recent months has caused outrage everywhere from Internet chat rooms to Congressional hearing rooms.
But the pattern -- executives reaping rewards from their own mistakes, while shareholders suffer -- is far more common than many people realize. And an analysis of company filings, which were provided by Thomson Financial, a research firm, shows that it is hardly limited to failed companies.
Rather, the practice appears to have gone hand in hand with the general decline in accounting standards among American companies as they strove in recent years to present their financial results in the best possible light. The recent recession and the fallout from Enron's collapse have forced many to restate profits or to make more conservative forecasts, but the reckoning has often occurred after company officials walked away with millions of dollars.
In fact, stock option grants have become so large over the last decade that executives have become wealthy by selling just a fraction of their holdings during a stock-price run-up that turns out to be fleeting.
"Management interests in too many cases have become misaligned with investor interests," said Alan Beller, the director of the corporation finance division at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In 1998 and 1999, Paul A. Allaire, then the chief executive of Xerox, made about $16 million selling company shares that were trading at more than $50, according to Thomson Financial. Last week, Xerox agreed to restate its earnings back to 1997 and to pay a $10 million fine for inaccurate accounting. The stock closed on Friday at $10.52.
At Vitesse Semiconductor, executives including Louis Tomasetta, the chief executive, sold $53 million of stock in the first two months of last year, more than they had in all of 2000. Before the quarter had ended, the company cut its earnings projection by more than half, and the shares began a descent from $72 to their current price of $8.94.
Around the same time, Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, mocked Microsoft for lowering its earnings forecast, saying its products, not the economy, were the cause. A month later, with Oracle's share price steady, Mr. Ellison made his first sale of Oracle stock in almost five years, for a gain of almost $900 million. Five weeks after that, he acknowledged that Oracle's profit would miss its estimate, and the stock dropped 21 percent in one day.
Little, if any, of such behavior by executives was illegal. Regulators say executives probably broke the law in only a few cases, mostly at little-known companies, when they sold shares while evidence suggested that they knew their stock would soon fall or that they deliberately reported inaccurate information. 
But because insider-trading cases are difficult to prosecute, some investors and regulators say that either the government should enact stricter regulations or directors should change the way they design pay packages.
"There should be some kind of redress," said Sarah Teslik, executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors. "Otherwise, mismanagement pays."
In a speech on Thursday, Harvey L. Pitt, the chairman of the S.E.C., said boards and the nation's stock exchanges should clamp down on the awarding of large stock option grants to senior executives. Without laying out the details, Mr. Pitt said executives should be able to exercise options only after their companies' results have proved to be sustained.
That, he said, "would help abolish perverse incentives to manage earnings, distort accounting or emphasize short-term stock performance."
Still, few executives are expected to be required to forfeit gains from stock sales, because insider-trading cases are so hard to bring.
Executives who release earnings reports that later prove wrong are most likely to attract the S.E.C.'s attention, Mr. Beller said, declining to comment on individual cases. 
Xerox offers a recent example of the phenomenon. From 1997 to 2000, the company exaggerated some profits by prematurely counting revenue from leasing copiers, according to the S.E.C. The move allowed Xerox to meet its earnings projections and gloss over the decline of its business, analysts say. An assistant treasurer at the company, James Bingham, had questioned its accounting standards, but Xerox fired him in 2000, calling him disgruntled. 
Last week, the company agreed to pay the fine, by far a record for a financial reporting case, stemming from some of the same accounting practices Mr. Bingham had faulted.
For much of the period, Mr. Allaire was Xerox's chief executive, and he was chairman the entire time. Barry D. Romeril was its chief financial officer from 1999 until last year. 
Both seem to have benefited from Wall Street's delay in understanding Xerox's problems. In addition to the $16.5 million that Mr. Allaire pocketed by exercising stock options when Xerox shares were trading at $54 or more, Mr. Romeril sold $1.2 million worth of shares, according to Thomson Financial.
Christa Carone, a spokeswoman for Xerox, said it would not be appropriate to comment on the executives' sales until the company had announced the details of its restatement. The change, she added, would move profits from one period to another but not alter the company's cumulative earnings.
IN other S.E.C. cases, executives have often kept much of the profit they made before their companies restated earnings. This year, David A. Thatcher, the former president of Critical Path Inc., an e-mail provider based in San Francisco, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities fraud and agreed to pay a $110,000 fine.
He did not have to return any of the $8.6 million he made selling Critical Path stock in 2000 because he made his final stock sale in August, the month before evidence suggested that he committed fraud, an S.E.C. official said.
In October and November of 2000, David C. Hayden, the company's chairman, sold 140,000 Critical Path shares. For the year as a whole, he sold 540,000 shares for a gain of $25 million, according to Thomson Financial. 
The stock closed at $2.35 on Friday, down from as much as $85 during the executives' sales.
Spokesmen for Mr. Hayden said he was not to blame, because he was unaware of the problems. "David sold in an environment where he had no knowledge about what was going on from a day-to-day operational standpoint," said Shane Dolgin, a spokesman for Critical Path. 
Other executives misled Mr. Hayden about the business, said Michael Zukerman, the company's general counsel. "He was a victim as much as any other shareholder," Mr. Zukerman said, noting that Mr. Hayden still owns many Critical Path shares.
Some corporate governance experts say executives should return profits that are partly a result of mismanagement that happened on their watch. "Even if they were unaware, they should take a hit," said Nell Minow, the editor of the Corporate Library, a Web site based in Washington. "The buck stops there. That's their job."
When executives fail to live up to their predictions, the cases are less clear-cut than those in which companies rewrite their financial history, corporate governance experts say. Even so, misplaced optimism can be troubling, they add, particularly when that optimism leads directly to a large executive payday.
In the boom years of the late 1990's, Providian Financial aggressively marketed MasterCard and Visa cards to people with bad credit records or none at all. Providian's executives said their business model worked because they knew how to evaluate customers.
The first cracks in the plan appeared in 2000. That summer, Providian agreed to reimburse customers $300 million after government regulators said it had misled people about how much they owed in interest and annual fees. By late last year, Providian acknowledged that many of its customers could not make their payments in a slow economy.
Its forecasts of profit turned into a $481 million loss in the last three months of the year, and the stock has fallen from more than $60 in 2000 to less than $8 now.
But the two men who devised Providian's failed strategy appear to have done well. David R. Alvarez, who oversaw the credit card division, made $15.6 million by selling Providian stock from September 2000 to September 2001. Shailesh J. Mehta, the chief executive, made $8.5 million selling stock during that time. Both sold many more shares during the period than they had sold the previous 12 months.
Last month, the company settled one shareholder suit filed against it, and an insurance policy paid the entire $38 million award. The executives declined to comment.
Mistaken bullishness may also have increased the stock gains for executives at two of the nation's largest technology companies. At the end of 2000, with the economy softening and many managers cutting their capital-spending budgets, technology companies began to predict that they would struggle in the months ahead. Hewlett-Packard, Intel, Microsoft and Motorola all warned of trouble in November and December.
TWO companies, however, remained conspicuously optimistic. 
At Oracle, Mr. Ellison and Jeffrey O. Henley, the chief financial officer, said struggling companies had themselves to blame. "We're in the right market at the right time," Mr. Henley said on Dec. 14. "Microsoft is in yesterday's technology."
At Sun Microsystems, meanwhile, executives acknowledged that the economy was weakening but said that the downturn might actually help their business, as companies shifted their spending. 
"There are companies out there that said they have no idea how things are going to go in the next few months. We're not saying that," Michael Lehman, Sun's chief financial officer, told analysts in January 2001.
Less than a week later, with Sun's stock holding steady around $32, Edward J. Zander, Sun's president, sold shares worth more than $8 million. Other Sun executives divested part of their stakes, too.
At Oracle, Mr. Henley made $31 million selling stock for $32.31 a share in January, and Mr. Ellison, among the country's richest people, made almost $900 million, according to Thomson Financial.
By March, both companies started saying that the soft economy would, indeed, hurt their profits. Shares of both ended the month at around $15. Oracle executives face a shareholder lawsuit accusing them of making misleading statements early in 2001.
Jennifer Glass, an Oracle spokeswoman, said the suit was without merit and called the executives' stock sales a "a private, personal matter." Diane Carlini, a Sun spokeswoman, said the executives there sold their shares only during times when they had the same information as other investors.
To some investors and outsiders, however, the notion that executives profited from their own mistakes is deeply unfair. The contrast seems particularly egregious, they say, when executives make large sales, relative to their recent pattern, shortly after they have made confident predictions, as happened at Oracle and Vitesse.
Vitesse declined to comment.
"If executives are going to sell, they ought to do it when there is no question in anyone's mind about the company," said Joseph L. Badaracco, a professor of management at Harvard Business School, speaking generally about the practice. "And they ought to do it on a regular, pre-announced basis."
Besides undermining investor faith in the markets, management experts said, executives risk their own reputations when they seem to emerge from bad times better than their employees and investors.
"Any evidence that you're putting your personal gain ahead of your organization's welfare is one of the most discrediting things you can do in leadership," said Michael Useem, a management professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. "It becomes a litmus test for any followers, about whether they want to go with the man or woman at the top."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While sunny pronouncements about Sun Microsystems were still warm, the president, Edward J. Zander, sold shares. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Timing Is Everything"Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, and Jeffrey O. Henley, the chief financial officer, sold shares in Oracle last year as they made optimistic statements about the company to the public. According to the most recent filings, they have not sold any more shares since then. Dec. 14, 2000 -- Microsoft joins a growing list of companies announcing that the economic downturn will hurt earnings. At Oracle, Mr. Henley says, "We're in the right market at the right time," and he sees no slowdown in sales. The next day, Oracle's stock rises to $32 while most share prices fall. Jan. 4, 2001 -- Mr. Henley exercises one million stock options and sells the shares for a gain of $31.1 million. Jan. 22-31, 2001 -- Mr. Ellison sells 29 million shares for a gain of $900 million. It is the first time he has sold Oracle shares in almost five years. March 1, 2001 -- Oracle acknowledges that profits will be lower, blaming the weak economy. The next day, the stock closes down 21 percent. Subsequently, shareholders file suits against Oracle, accusing it of misleading them with optimistic statements. (Sources: Thomson Financial, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); RETAILERS (72%); BONDS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); ETHICS (67%); CONSERVATISM (64%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (55%); CHAT ROOMS (54%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSIDER TRADING; WAGES AND SALARIES; ETHICS; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (58%); CHASE CARD SERVICES INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); VITESSE SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); DG (NYSE) (58%); VTSS (NASDAQ) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (89%); EDWARD J ZANDER (79%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



189 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Moving Past War in the Mideast 

 BODY:
Amid the daily scenes of horror and hatred in the Middle East, people may be tempted to dismiss Secretary of State Colin Powell's new peacemaking mission as hopelessly unrealistic. They shouldn't. In recent months, a broad new consensus has begun to gel, in Washington and Arab capitals and across much of the Israeli political spectrum, about the steps needed to move the region from war to peace. If Mr. Powell can build on these shared ideas and bring them to bear on recalcitrant Palestinian and Israeli leaders, he can transform a deadly crisis into an opening for lasting peace.
 The elements of this emerging vision include ending Palestinian terrorism; freezing, then rolling back, Jewish settlements; and negotiating new borders that would end 35 years of Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip and allow the establishment of a politically and economically viable Palestinian state. These steps would have to unfold in a regional context that led to full Arab recognition of Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state with secure and defensible borders, guaranteed by peace treaties and cemented by economic cooperation. 
 President Bush's path-breaking speech last week touched on virtually all of these points. In contrast, the hopeful visions offered so far by Israelis and by Arab leaders have omitted crucial elements. Yasir Arafat has been even less forthcoming. Although he pledged in the 1993 Oslo peace agreement to negotiate a two-state solution by peaceful means, he has all but shattered his credibility as a negotiating partner by again embracing terrorism in recent months. Mr. Powell's task is to turn the full package, as enunciated by Mr. Bush, into the basis for a new round of peace diplomacy to replace the shattered Oslo framework. 
A good place to begin is by persuading Arab leaders to condemn Palestinian suicide bombings and other acts of terrorism, a step they inexcusably failed to take last month in Beirut and again yesterday in Cairo. Remedying that failure now would encourage Israelis to take the Arab League's historic offer of full peace and recognition in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal more seriously. 
Another crucial challenge for Mr. Powell will be to enlist Arab governments in the delicate task of rescuing the Palestinians and their leaders from their present disastrous course. Palestinian leaders must re-establish their credibility as legitimate diplomatic partners by irrevocably rejecting terrorism and doing all in their power to combat it. Achieving Palestinian statehood requires the emergence of genuine Palestinian peacemakers. 
Mr. Powell must demand difficult steps from Israel as well. As President Bush pointedly said yesterday, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon needs to start pulling Israeli troops back from Palestinian cities and towns "without delay." Israel must end the gratuitous humiliation of innocent Palestinian civilians trying to go about their daily lives and follow Mr. Bush's injunctions to "respect the dignity of the Palestinian people who are and will be their neighbors." While taking these steps, Israel must declare its willingness to begin immediate negotiations on the basis Mr. Bush has now outlined. 
Mr. Sharon has a long history of favoring force over diplomacy and promoting Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza. Yet he recently told our colleague William Safire that he now dreams of ending his political career as a statesman and peacemaker. If Washington can present him with trustworthy Arab and Palestinian negotiating partners and strong American leadership for peace, he can be challenged to realize that dream. This is surely a time of high danger in the Middle East. It could also be, with American help, a time of new hope. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); BOMBINGS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (79%); EGYPT (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2002 



190 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Unwanted in Montana 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "National and State Politics Help Protect a Swamp" (front page, April 3):
 The Bush administration's opportunistic environmentalism -- good for Big Cypress and bad for Yellowstone -- is evidently flowing from re-election calculus, rather than the president's belief in what is good for America. 
 Be that as it may, Mr. Bush also appears to be getting bad information. As an elected official in Montana, I can vouch for the following: There is a strong local and regional support for limiting snowmobile use in Yellowstone.
Rangers in respirators and wildlife threatened by disregard for park rules reflect the toll that snowmobiles are taking on our first national park. That's not only bad environmental policy; it's also a sure way to kill the best thing that we have going for our local economy.

GIBSON BAILEY
Town Councilman
West Yellowstone, Mont., April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); SNOWMOBILING (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (53%) PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES (OHV); SNOWMOBILES; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES 

PERSON: BAILEY, GIBSON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; FLORIDA; EVERGLADES NATIONAL PARK

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



191 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
The three big Internet portals begin to distinguish among themselves as shopping malls.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
YAHOO and MSN have worked hard at catching up to America Online in recent years, at least as far as their online shopping malls go. The three portals now feature many of the same marquee retailers, offering the same merchandise, frequently at the same prices. Not surprisingly, they attract the same types of people -- in their mid-40's, with household incomes around $65,000 and annual online spending of about $450.
 So why would so many retailers continue to throw advertising money at all three? 
 They shouldn't, according to a report released last week by Forrester Research. If retailers follow the report's advice, consumers can expect to see merchants secure deals with just one among the so-called big three, and perhaps also start appearing on more shopping-specific sites like Amazon and eBay. 
Such a migration would have obvious implications for the Web sites' advertising revenues. The portals could stave off trouble, though, thanks to changes that have been in the works for months. AOL, Yahoo and MSN each said last week that they would introduce new versions of their shopping areas in the near future, with features that should help them distinguish themselves from one another. 
Not that their similarities have hurt them until now. Carrie A. Johnson, a Forrester retail analyst and the author of the report, said that online retailers that advertised with portals last year credited them with delivering 26 percent of their visitors and 19 percent of their sales. 
"They're still very important for driving traffic and branding," Ms. Johnson said. "And they've all gotten good at merchandising, and creating an environment where customers feel comfortable shopping. The problem is, because retailers work with so many of the portals, it just requires so much to run those relationships well." 
Among other things, Ms. Johnson said, it takes time to work with the portals' merchandisers and marketers to examine product placements, oversee promotions and review the performance of ad campaigns. "If retailers concentrate on just one and make that relationship sing, it would be worth a lot more money," she said. 
With each of the portals promising revamped shopping areas soon, that decision could be difficult. MSN, for one, is continuing to add shopping features, even before the newest version of its "e-shop" opens in June. Today, for example, it plans to introduce My Virtual Model, a feature enabling shoppers to create three-dimensional models of themselves online, to see how clothes of different retailers will fit. 
Parul Shah, an MSN product manager, declined to describe the changes that would be made in the new e-shop. But she disputed Forrester's assertion that the sites were essentially the same. For one thing, Ms. Shah said, MSN intentionally works with fewer big merchants -- about 150, compared with about 200 each for AOL and Yahoo. (Yahoo also lists more than 10,000 smaller merchants on its site.) 
Yahoo executives also rejected Forrester's characterization. Jennifer Dulski, director of commerce marketing for Yahoo, pointed to research from A.C. Nielsen last year that said that 70 percent of online shoppers visited Yahoo monthly, compared with 52 percent for MSN and 45 percent for AOL.
Beyond mentioning that Yahoo would create a separate category for shoes, Ms. Dulski declined to give details about the impending changes in Yahoo Shopping. But she said the company would feature more wide-scale sales along the lines of the one it held last month, in which 100 merchants discounted more than 1,000 products, and experienced "holiday-like sales volume." 
AOL is slightly more forthcoming about the introduction of its new shopping channel, which is due this summer, according to Chris Marentis, senior vice president for interactive marketing at AOL. 
Mr. Marentis said the shopping channel would be less cluttered than in past years, with only 9 to 12 categories instead of more than 20. And, he said, the site will more prominently feature AOL's Quick Buy technology, which lets users buy so-called impulse items with one click. (The company keeps the customers' credit card and shipping information on file.) 
More significant, perhaps, is the fact that AOL will be introducing a search function using Amazon technology as part of a $100 million deal the company made with Amazon last year. The search feature will be an important improvement for shoppers, Mr. Marentis said, because it will analyze the most popular items in any given shopping category, and list those results first. The old search engine based results on the number of times a term like "bell bottom jeans" appeared on a given Web page, rather than how many consumers actually viewed or bought those jeans.
Like executives of other portals, Mr. Marentis said the company would also do more in the future to put customers in the brick-and-mortar stores of its retail partners, rather than just focus on generating online sales. He pointed to promotions involving Volvo's S60 and the Warner Brothers movie "Cats and Dogs" last year as evidence of the company's power to spur offline sales. (Warner Brothers, of course, is owned by AOL's parent, AOL Time Warner.)
But determining the fees for such campaigns can be tricky, because it is hard to calculate with any precision how much an online campaign contributes to offline sales. Since the Internet ad slump began two years ago, marketers have increasingly struck deals in which the cost of a campaign was tied to how many visitors or customers the ads yielded. 
Web executives were not happy about such terms, but they had little choice. Now, retailers like Sears are reporting that their online marketing and sales efforts are helping to create hundreds of millions of dollars in offline sales. Considering that so far many advertising contracts have been pegged to online performance, Mr. Marentis said AOL had "left a lot of money on the table." 
Mr. Marentis said AOL was focused on tracking offline sales with tactics like online coupons that are redeemable in stores but that can then be traced back and credited to AOL. Beyond that, he said, the site will point to examples like Sears and others, to convince marketers that online advertising spurs offline sales, and that the sites should be compensated for helping deliver those sales. 
"Holding us accountable to a performance standard that's missing the offline value" AOL provides, Mr. Marentis said, "is missing a central part of the equation." 
But Ms. Johnson, of Forrester, said retailers should reject any efforts by portals to track offline sales, because it would "just mean more work for the retailers, and portals are already getting such a high premium anyway from retailers." 
Though the advertising rates for portals have come down in the last two years, analysts say they remain far higher than the rates charged most everywhere else on the Web.
But some retail executives were not prepared to reject the idea of offline performance measurements out of hand, including Dennis Honan, who oversees the online and catalog divisions of Sears, Roebuck. "To the extent we could be comfortable that our marketing dollars are effectively driving sales for Sears," Mr. Honan said, "whether online or in the stores, we'd certainly take that into consideration." 
The problem, Mr. Honan said, is that "the burden would be on the portals to demonstrate" how they were creating offline sales. "The jury's still out on how they'd be able to do that effectively," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yahoo and MSN have been catching up with America Online in offering shopping. All three sites attract people in their mid-40's with household incomes of around $65,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (97%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); WRITERS (65%); VIRTUAL REALITY (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RESEARCH; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); AOL INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EBAY INC; FORRESTER RESEARCH INC; YAHOO INC; MSN; AMERICA ONLINE INC; AMAZON.COM INC 

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB; JOHNSON, CARRIE A 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



192 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: '60 Minutes' And Its Icon Plan for Shift In Generations 

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
Mike Wallace, who turns 84 in May, says that next fall he will severely reduce his involvement with "60 Minutes," the CBS news magazine that he helped start in 1968.
 Mr. Wallace, the oldest full-time news correspondent in network television, said he would cut his workload in half. 
 "The time has come," Mr. Wallace said last week at his office, which overlooks the Hudson River and is lined with photographs of world leaders and other television icons. 
The withdrawal of Mr. Wallace, the face of the program since it began, effectively begins a slow and deliberate change of leadership at "60 Minutes" -- the first in its 34-year history.
His scaling back comes as CBS News executives are beginning to focus on how to maintain the program as key players inch closer to retirement. The commentator Andy Rooney is 83; the correspondent Morley Safer is 70; and the creator and executive producer, Don Hewitt, is 79.
The program has undergone some wear and tear in recent years. Once an untouchable island within CBS News, late last year it faced production staff cutbacks for the first time in memory. Its viewers, on average in their mid- to late 50's, are older than the audience today's advertisers generally desire. Its record run of 23 years as one of TV's top-10 rated programs came to an end last year.
Still, "60 Minutes" is the top-rated news magazine on television -- ranked 16th among all network programs on the Nielsen Media Research ratings list this season with an average audience of 15 million people. It is considered by many in its industry to be the highest-quality news magazine in all TV news. And it remains not only a vital revenue generator for CBS, a unit of Viacom, but also an important promotional platform for the network's other programs -- one CBS hopes to have for years to come.
Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS News, said the sister program of "60 Minutes," "60 Minutes II" -- which was started in 1999 initially against Mr. Hewitt's wishes -- could figure heavily in the future of "60 Minutes."
"That is a place where we are developing people who can potentially move over," he said. Jeffrey Fager, the "60 Minutes II" executive producer, is widely expected to take over for Mr. Hewitt, when the time comes.
Mr. Hewitt said that one person he might rely on to pick up the slack for Mr. Wallace is Bob Simon, the "60 Minutes II" correspondent who occasionally appears in segments for "60 Minutes." (He also mentioned Christiane Amanpour, the CNN war correspondent who contributes to "60 Minutes.")
For his part, Mr. Hewitt said that he did not foresee leaving the program soon. "I'm going to be 80, and I don't think I've missed a step," he said. "My aim is to die at my desk -- I don't want to die anywhere else."
The "60 Minutes" correspondents Steve Kroft, 56, Leslie Stahl, 60, and Ed Bradley, 60, are relative youngsters, he said, and do not seem to be preparing an exit, either.
Mr. Hewitt said that he was aware that Mr. Wallace's diminished role could hurt the program, as he is the most identifiable of its correspondents. "He was the logo," Mr. Hewitt said. "What do you do? You look around."
Some on the "60 Minutes" staff doubt that Mr. Wallace will go through with his plan to cut back. He previously vowed to slow down and then went ahead and outproduced his colleagues while they worried about the strain on him.
"I think he should cut back, and I'm glad to see that he's going to take it a little easier," Mr. Kroft said. "But if he feels next year that he's not doing enough, or somebody else has had better stories than he's had, he may steal everybody's producers and do 20."
But Mr. Wallace says that he means what he says.
In an article in The New York Times last month about aging and career, Mr. Wallace was quoted as saying, "I'm frustrated because I'm of a certain age, and I want to keep working, and you can say, 'If you don't have the psychic energy and you don't do it the way you used to do, why not leave?' "
Mr. Wallace appears robust and maintains a sprightly gait. But he said last week that he was fatigued by the travel his job demanded. "The traveling has become a pain in the back, it really has," he said.
All the same, Mr. Wallace is still the show's most productive correspondent. He has been in 15 segments so far this year, including one about Yasir Arafat -- reported in Ramallah -- and another for which he flew to Kuwait. John Nash, the Nobel laureate in economic science whose battle with schizophrenia was the subject of the film "A Beautiful Mind," appeared with Mr. Wallace on "60 Minutes" to tell his story and deny rumors that he was an anti-Semite, among other things.
People at CBS News say that Mr. Wallace has continued to work so hard despite often being advised to slow down. "We've urged him to pace himself," Mr. Heyward said.
He has never tended to do so. Mr. Wallace's career spans the history of television. He started in radio in 1939 as a news reader and a narrator for programs like "The Green Hornet." He moved to television as an interviewer and an actor in the 1950's. He played a homicide detective on the ABC murder mystery program "Stand by for Crime" and was the host of "The Big Surprise," a game show on NBC.
He began to make his name as a pugnacious -- some said sensationalistic -- interviewer on "Night Beat," a program shown on Channel 5 in New York City, and "The Mike Wallace Interview" on ABC -- famously roasting and clashing with news figures like the labor leader Michael J. Quill or celebrities like Barbra Streisand.
People inside and outside CBS have speculated that Mr. Wallace has continued to work so hard to remove the tarnish that he believes a 1995 report about the tobacco industry caused to his career. Amid fear of a big lawsuit, CBS lawyers initially balked at showing a "60 Minutes" report on Brown & Williamson Tobacco.
Mr. Wallace and Mr. Hewitt were criticized by some at CBS for initially giving in too easily to the network's lawyers -- a version of events that was used in the movie "The Insider." The movie deeply angered the men, who described it as a distortion.
But colleagues and friends say that Mr. Wallace has continued to work so hard not only because he is very competitive, but also because he has never quite felt accepted by journalism's establishment.
"He's still looking for the story that will define his career -- as if he hasn't already done several hundred of them," Mr. Kroft said. "I think that because he's had so many aspects to his career, he thinks some people still don't take him seriously as a journalist."
Mr. Wallace said that he simply enjoyed nothing more than the pursuit of a good news story and the perch from which he gets to tell it.
He added that he was not entirely going away, anyway. "Let's not kill Mike," he said. "I'm not dying."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Wallace, soon to be 84, was the host of several shows before "60 Minutes" started. One show, in the early 50's, was with his wife at the time, Buff Cobb. In 1968, working for CBS News, he was removed from the floor of the Democratic National Convention. (Associated Press); (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. C8) Chart/Map: "Television Stations, Two by Two"Until 1999, the Federal Communications Commission barred companies from owning more than one television station in any local market. Since then, companies have been allowed to own two stations -- so-called duopolies -- in a given area, but only in the biggest markets with the most broadcasters. According to unofficial figures from the F.C.C., there are currently 68 duopolies in 43 markets. Last week, a federal court ordered the commission to reconsider that rule, prompting many regulatory experts to predict that the F.C.C. will eventually allow duopolies in many smaller markets. Some big markets already have more than one duopoly, and in both Boston and San Francisco, four companies own two stations each. If the rules are relaxed, the duopoly phenomenon could spread. Map of the United States shows the Number of companies owning two television stations in a market area*. *Designated market areas as defined by Nielsen Media Research. (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); RANKINGS (71%) TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (82%); VIACOM INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%) CBS CORP (CBS) 

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: BOB SIMON (58%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (57%) RUTENBERG, JIM; WALLACE, MIKE (TV CORRESPONDENT); HEWITT, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: SIXTY MINUTES (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



193 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: PROSPECTS; 
Popular Arab Anger: A Long-Term Threat to the Foundations of Peace

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 7 

 BODY:
Arab anger and demonstrations across the Middle East do not represent an immediate threat to any of the moderate governments that have served as America's principal friends and allies in the region, Western diplomats and Arab officials say. 
 But an unrelenting siege by Israeli forces in the occupied West Bank and at the headquarters in Ramallah of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, is radicalizing the politics of the region and creating a threat to peace and recognition of the Jewish state by a rising generation of Arabs, the officials say. 
 President Bush recently alluded to this grave assessment, which has been coming to him in a stream of reports from American embassies and intelligence agencies as well as from Arab leaders. 
"I began to worry that the foundations necessary to achieve lasting peace were becoming eroded," Mr. Bush said, in an interview Friday with the British ITV network. "In order for Israel to be able to exist, it requires the Arab world's willingness to encourage the conditions so that she can exist." 
Arab governments -- particularly Egypt and Jordan, but also Lebanon, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and other gulf states -- might have to face the decision whether to crack down violently against agitated crowds of stone-throwing students protesting the Israeli incursion into the West Bank and expressing their disillusionment with American policy and Arab leadership. 
And while the short-term threat is whether Arab leaders will be forced to confront their own people to save themselves, a greater risk in the future may be the radicalization of a young Arab population. That population is now engaged in a verbal assault on the Arab commitment to peace, forged over three decades and nurtured by successive American administrations.
The consequences of a new generation of Arabs who walk away from the "strategic" policy of peace with Israel they declared in Cairo in 1996, and reaffirmed with their recent peace initiative from Beirut, would be a return to the politics of resistance, including weapons of terror, economic stagnation and the further rise of Islamic extremism, many experts say. "It is reversing something that we in Egypt have managed to achieve, and that is the acceptance of Israel," said Egypt's foreign minister, Ahmed Maher.
Mr. Bush's concerns reflect the message that President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt delivered last week in a private letter to the American leader.
Mr. Mubarak said that as both Israelis and Palestinians die and their suffering is beamed around the Arab world, Arab resentment has focused most intensely on the failure of the region's leaders and the United States to hold to the path to peace charted in milestone agreements like the one signed in 1993 by Mr. Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin, then the Israeli prime minister. 
Bush administration officials, many of whom had counseled the president that the rage and anguish rising from the Arab streets should be taken with a grain of salt, are now amending their assessments. 
Many of those officials have taken the position since the Persian Gulf war in 1991, when Mr. Bush's father led a coalition that included Arab armies to reclaim Kuwait, that the Arab street will always fall into line if American leaders are resolute and their policies even-handed.
But now, Arab leaders "don't see themselves as having any viable political options" or arguments with which they can calm the daily demonstrations that, thus far, have been contained with minimal violence, a senior Western diplomat here said. 
All it would take is for a large crowd to break through police lines and race toward the Israeli or American embassies.
"By the time they got a half mile down the road, tens of thousands could join them, and then you would have a real crisis," an Egyptian official said. American diplomats in the region, all of them living with hundreds of Arab soldiers stationed nearby to protect them, were rattled by the breach of the American Embassy compound in Bahrain on Friday, when about 20 demonstrators broke off from a crowd of several thousand and scaled the wall.
The image evoked memories of 1979, when Iranian students loyal to Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini seized the United States Embassy in Tehran and held 50 American diplomats hostage in a crisis that undermined the Carter administration. 
Today, the security and intelligence services of most Arab nations are highly evolved, experienced in crowd control and in defusing demonstrations. They have close working relations with American intelligence agencies, and since the Sept. 11 terror attacks, they have stepped up their cooperation to identify and arrest Islamic extremists. 
In Jordan, where demonstrations have been the largest and most daring in recent days, King Abdullah is said to command a loyal and able security apparatus. But even in Amman, the capital, there is a sense of siege in the royal palace.
"You don't know what will happen," said a former royal adviser, Adnan Abu-Odeh. "There is an accumulation of grievances, one against Israel and America and one against the Arab regimes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); RELIGION (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (54%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (55%) TYLER, PATRICK E; ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); LEBANON (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); JORDAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ISRAEL; RAMALLAH (WEST BANK); WEST BANK

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



194 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Escape Route 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Opponents of the Indian Point nuclear power complex in Westchester County are taking some of their most important cues from the successful fight against the trouble-plagued Shoreham nuclear plant on Long Island.
 It was the absence of a credible evacuation plan that ultimately killed Shoreham more than a decade ago. Shoreham was a colossal fiasco in many respects. It had been in the works since the 1960's, a dream project that was supposed to provide energy that was plentiful, safe and economical. By the end, its costs had ballooned from the earliest estimates of $70 million to a staggering $5.5 billion. 
 It was the nation's most expensive nuclear power plant. And it never made it to the starting gate.
There were plenty of problems with Shoreham. From the beginning there were worries about safety. Cracks developed in the plant's three backup generators. And federal officials were not satisfied with the strength of the original containment vessel.
But it was the federal requirement that evacuation plans be developed for the areas surrounding nuclear plants that finally doomed Shoreham. That requirement was imposed after the 1979 disaster at Three Mile Island. The opposition to Shoreham, already strong, intensified after Three Mile Island. And when Shoreham was unable to come up with a viable evacuation plan, it was finished.
Now, in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, opposition to Indian Point is intensifying. And once again a major focus is the viability of the plan for evacuation.
The federal government has approved the existing Indian Point plan. But Indian Point opponents have always insisted that the plan was not just flawed or inadequate, but basically unrealistic. That feeling has grown since Sept. 11.
Opponents fear that if a catastrophic event occurred at Indian Point there would be widespread panic in the region. Under the current plan, if it were necessary to evacuate an area during the school day, buses and vans are supposed to immediately head toward the schools, pick up the children and take them to designated areas outside the danger zone, where they would be united with their parents. What is more realistic, say the plan's opponents, is that fearful parents would immediately rush to the schools to pick up their children, thus clogging roads and making the overall evacuation effort that much more difficult.
Uncertainties of this nature abound. If there were an event serious enough to warrant an evacuation, would all of the bus drivers be willing to drive into a possibly contaminated area to rescue the schoolchildren? Some drivers have already expressed their reluctance to enter a contaminated zone.
What happens to people who are elderly or ill? What happens to those who become confused, or people who don't know the drill?
If a mass exit were required, could the roads and bridges handle it? Or would traffic come to a standstill?
The county and the owners of Indian Point (the Entergy Corporation, based in New Orleans) are engaged in elaborate efforts to update and improve the emergency response plan. But the plan applies only to a 10-mile radius of Indian Point, and the concern of residents in the region is spread far wider than that.
That widespread concern, in the view of officials at Entergy, is misplaced. A company spokesman, Larry Gottlieb, said applying an evacuation plan to even a 10-mile radius was unnecessary. The danger zone, according to Mr. Gottlieb, would be much smaller -- about a two-mile radius around the plant.
And not everyone, even in that two-mile radius, would have serious cause for worry, he said. If a plume of radiation were released by some disaster at Indian Point, Entergy officials believe it would affect -- depending on wind conditions -- just a small wedge of the two-mile radius.
"It's kind of like if somebody is pointing a gun at you," said Mr. Gottlieb, "and all you have to do is step to the left or to the right to get out of the pathway of the bullet. That's all you have to do.
"You don't have to get into a car and go 50 miles out of the area to be protected. If we're telling you that the wind is blowing in a northeast direction and only this grid is affected -- and we can tell this grid very simply -- we recommend you stay in your home and don't move. And the rest of the folks aren't affected because the wind isn't blowing that way. It's really as simple as that." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (95%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); POWER PLANTS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TERRORISM (77%); AIRLINES (74%); HIJACKING (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); APPROVALS (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; ATOMIC ENERGY; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ;ENTERGY CORP 

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



195 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE TRADE CENTER; 
TOWERS' COLLAPSE RAISES NEW DOUBTS ABOUT FIRE TESTS

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON and JAMES GLANZ 

DATELINE: NORTHBROOK, Ill., April 5 

 BODY:
The fiery collapse of three World Trade Center skyscrapers has led scientists, engineers and building officials to question the century-old practice of relying on tests done in hulking, low-tech furnaces to determine if building materials will survive out-of-control blazes.
 The furnace tests, conducted at places like Underwriters Laboratories here, focus on the ability of separate building components -- a steel column or a concrete roof support -- to survive temperatures as high as 2,000 degrees. 
 The test has many defenders, but many scientists say that even before Sept. 11, they had concluded that the furnace tests were out of touch with a computer-age understanding of the devastation caused by the fury of a real fire. At least when it comes to buildings, that research shows, the whole often acts differently from a simple-minded sum of the parts.
The super-baked, seared furnaces here are the seething heart of the most trusted and advanced testing laboratory in the United States for building structures, materials and products. But within those same furnaces, Underwriters and other labs are using testing methods that have changed little since they were devised when the first Model T Fords were rolling off the assembly lines. 
A 12-foot steel-and-masonry door slides shut, closing off a brick-lined furnace, its red-painted exterior corroding around a maze of pipes, flanges and valve handles. Inside, a vertical steel column is braced with concrete supports, a web of wires and sensors strung between its surface and the furnace wall like clotheslines. A worker lights a kerosene-soaked rag wrapped around the end of a steel bar and shoves it through a small window in the door, igniting 70 yellow billowing flames that lick the column. Within three minutes, the temperature has shot past 1,000 degrees and is still rising.
The test is on, and its fidelity is anything but an academic issue. This and similar tests shape what amounts to the DNA of the nation's infrastructure, what goes into every commercial and large residential building.
The basic test of the fire-resisting capabilities of fireproofing, steel supports and concrete structures -- a furnace procedure called ASTM E-119 -- has many proponents who say that the declining number of fire deaths in the United States since the mid-1970's proves its effectiveness.
But critics call it unrealistic, primitive, even medieval. And other countries, including England, Australia, New Zealand, Sweden and Japan, have modified fire standards and codes to allow designers to use 21st-century computer tools to custom design buildings to withstand unusual or intense fires not anticipated by the traditional regulations.
Tests in this country do not, for example, account for plastic and synthetic combustible materials, which were unknown in the 1910's when the "standard fire" used in the test was developed. Nor does the test try to mimic how a real fire sweeps through rooms in a building, creating structural stresses in one place that can lead to failures elsewhere in the building's interconnected skeleton. Within the cramped furnace, the test involves individual beams or columns and does not even check whether, once mounted in a building, the bolted, welded or riveted connections between them are equally resistant to failure in a fire.
"No one who is in the business with any type of technical background believes there is any kind of strong correspondence, in any way, between the performance test and a real fire," said Kathleen Almand, a structural engineer who is executive director of the Society of Fire Protection Engineers.
None of those engineers and scientists, and certainly not Ms. Almand, have suggested that shortcomings in the test led to the collapse of the twin towers and 7 World Trade Center, a 47-story skyscraper that burned and collapsed under mysterious circumstances late on Sept. 11.
No modern high-rise had ever completely collapsed in a fire before that day, a fact that along with the steadily decreasing fire death rate has reassured building officials and engineers that the furnace tests, whatever their technical failings, do pretty well in winnowing out dangerous or inadequate materials and structures. But as research and computer modeling of fires advanced in recent decades, scientists and engineers have become acutely aware that the furnace blasts were more fantasy flame than accurate road test of conditions in a burning building. The same researchers say they are concerned that recently developed construction materials like lightweight, high-strength concrete and composites could survive furnace tests but be prone to complex failures.
"If I say, 'That product passed the test,' you as John Q. Public may be happy," said Dr. James G. Quintiere, a professor in fire protection engineering at the University of Maryland. "But if we say, 'It passed the test, but we don't know how it will function in your house,' you would not be happy."

The Science of Fire
Even before Sept. 11, about 20 percent of firefighters who died in building fires were killed in localized collapses of one kind or another. So fire experts say a true scientific understanding of how fires affect large structures could help determine when it is too dangerous for firefighters to be in a burning building. 
Dr. Shyam Sunder, a division chief at the Building and Fire Research Laboratory of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, said that developing the science of fire beyond the furnace tests could save lives and have an impact in at least three broad areas: restoring public confidence in tall buildings, protecting firefighters and other emergency personnel and improving safety for building occupants.
The institute, which does research and provides the technical basis for standards but does not impose regulations, is planning to undertake a $16 million follow-up investigation on the trade center disaster after a federal inquiry, led by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the American Society of Civil Engineers, releases its own report in late April or early May.
The institute has also begun a wider research and development effort with the goal of improving building and fire codes and engineering practices for structures of all kinds.
If the institute's work is successful, Dr. Sunder said, "we'll have the tools for engineers to design and retrofit for fire safety."
"Fire and emergency service personnel will have a better understanding of the performance to be expected from buildings," he added.
A draft of the FEMA report, which has been obtained by The New York Times, has already placed a sharp focus on the ASTM E-119 test, though the report is careful not to imply that the test is somehow responsible for the collapses. The test "does not provide tools to determine how long a building component can expect to perform in an actual fire," the report says.

An Oversized Barbecue
At the Underwriters Laboratory campus in this northern Chicago suburb, where workers carry out those blazing tests in a yawning building reminiscent of an airplane hangar, forklifts shuttle back and forth, moving huge columns, while cranes suspended from overhead rails slowly lift giant sections of roof into the furnaces and technicians mill about in front of a forest of dials, gauges and controls.
Three huge furnaces, each in a separate corner of the hangar, are designed to handle three different tests: one for steel columns, one for wall assemblies, and one for ceilings and floors. Little about the setup is high-tech.
"Do you need the torch, Bill?" Eckhard Brodde, an assistant, yelled to the foreman, Bill Joy, as the two prepared the cube-shaped furnace for testing columns last week.
"Let's close the door first," Mr. Joy yelled back. Both gave it a heavy push. "It is not moving," Mr. Joy said, before an extra shove was applied. "There you go," he said, as the door clicked into place. 
As if lighting an oversized barbecue, Mr. Joy sets fire to a kerosene-soaked rag and sticks it through a small opening in the furnace. "Three, two, one -- gas on," he shouts, as the flames burst into life.
With this inferno of flames racing from dozens of gas jets, these workers are determining just how long the steel column and its fireproofing can hold up under this thermal assault.
The result is a fire rating, expressed in hours, for this column, and eventually for countless different components that make up a building, from sections of roofing to walls for emergency exit stairways to assemblies of glass, brick and plaster that make up a building facade. A column might be given a "two-hour" rating, meaning that it has withstood two hours in the furnace at temperatures that research done in the 1910's determined to be typical of office fires of the day.
A history book on U.L.'s testing procedures, published in the mid-1920's and on display in a glass case at a company museum here, describes the procedure Mr. Joy and Mr. Brodde are following, almost as if it were written yesterday.
"The furnace itself is a box of thick masonry, and is heated by four rows of blast burners," the book says. "On the outside of the walls are valves, through which it is possible to control the distribution and intensity of the fire."
Just as in the 1910's and 1920's, an organization called the American Society for Testing and Materials, or ASTM International, specifies exactly how those tests are done. Ultimately these ratings are incorporated into local and state regulations, or fire codes, which dictate minimum standards for each of the thousands of components in a building.

A Comprehensive Approach
The proponents of using modern science are advocating an extremely different approach using a comprehensive evaluation of how an entire building reacts -- and perhaps fails -- in a fire.
The computer models for that sort of evaluation are still under development, and they would still require fire tests, although much more sophisticated ones intended to yield a full scientific understanding of how fire sweeps through a building and, sometimes, brings it down. 
This approach, for example, might identify a critical connection between beams and columns that could become the weakest link in a major fire and therefore has to have much stronger fire protection. It might also find ways for developers to cut costs by reducing insulation where it is less needed.
But any change is likely to come slowly, particularly because furnace tests received little scrutiny outside government research institutes and university labs before Sept. 11. The furnace test "will tell you if a product does work or doesn't work," said Neil Schultz, executive director of VTEC Laboratories in the Bronx. "You can have all the computer models in the world and they wouldn't tell you that."
But even at places like Underwriters Labs, ASTM International and the government agencies where fire codes for cities including New York are written, technicians and officials say they are ready to consider the new philosophy.
"Irrespective of 9/11 and the World Trade Center, I think the fire science, the sophistication level, and the understanding is such that the momentum has started to look at these things more precisely," said Arthur E. Cote, chief engineer at the National Fire Association, an organization that helps develop codes.
"The sort of inevitable march," he added, "is ongoing. The pace will depend on economics and the reward from the effort."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Underwriters Laboratories in Northbrook, Ill., test how building materials perform in fires, but the tests do not mimic how a fire sweeps through a building. Bill Joy, above, lights a kerosene rag that will ignite a furnace. At right, Robert Berhinig, a U.L. fire expert, examines a fireproofed column. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. A10) Chart: "A Fire and How It Spreads"Computer models can simulate how a fire spreads through an entire building, making it possible to estimate structural damage. More traditionalfurnace tests focus on a single component of the building -- a steel column, a section of floor -- at a time. THE PROCESS 1. DETERMINING PROPERTIES OF REAL FIREIndividual objects, like furniture, are burned. Various thermal propertiesare measured, like how much andhow quickly heat is released duringthe burning. 2. CALCULATING EFFECTS IN COMPUTERA program calculates the motion of the fire by matching an object's physical properties, like its size and location in a setting, to its thermal properties, like how fast it heats up. 3. CREATING AN IMAGEAnother program then renders the movements of the fire by visualizing the calculations. 4. MEASURING ACCURACYThe accuracy of the computer calculations is often confirmed by constructing similar settings and igniting a real fire. THE RESULTSSnapshots of shaded temperature contours for a town house fire that spreads from the kitchen. Diagram of the shaded temperature contours for a town house fire that spreads from the kitchen 30 seconds after ignition and 4 minutes after ignition. (Source: National Institute of Standards and Technology)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (89%); HIJACKING (79%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); TERRORISM (70%); MISSING PERSONS (61%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) FIRES AND FIREMEN; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TESTS AND TESTING; PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (59%) UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



196 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: MIDEAST TURMOIL: VOICES; 
6 Israelis Mix Confusion, Fear and Determination

BYLINE:  By JOEL GREENBERG 

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, April 7 

 BODY:
Israel's military offensive in the West Bank, now 10 days old, appears to have broad support among Israelis.
 Stunned by suicide bombings that killed and wounded scores of people, emptied cafes and theaters and thinned out crowds on city streets, many Israelis say the military action is a justified last resort in the face of a deadly threat to daily life. 
 There have been no suicide bombings in Israel in recent days, a lull many people attribute to the army's tough clampdown on West Bank cities, where hundreds of thousands of Palestinians remain confined to their homes and at least 200 have been killed, many in fighting.
In a poll published Friday in Israel's most widely read daily, Yediot Ahronot, 60 percent of those surveyed said they understood the aims of the operation; 45 percent said they believed it would reduce Palestinian violence. Only 22 percent said they believed the operation would increase those attacks. 
A large majority, 62 percent, said they trusted the leadership of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.
A measure of the popularity of the military action was the high percentage of army reservists who responded to emergency call-ups without seeking a release from duty -- 92 percent according to army figures. About 20,000 reservists were called up for the operation.
On Saturday night, Israeli peace advocates were able to muster nearly 10,000 people for a demonstration in Tel Aviv against the military action, the largest such protest since the start of the Palestinian uprising 18 months ago but far smaller than peace rallies in previous years.
In several conversations today in the suburbs of Tel Aviv, Israelis spoke their mind about their country's military offensive.

Eli Levy
Fitness trainer, 27, Shoham
When the United States was attacked, it was prepared to overthrow the leadership of an entire country in order to protect American citizens. The prime minister of Israel is doing the same, in his own way.
We should definitely complete this mission, because we're talking about saving human lives. As long as there are terrorist attacks, the operation shouldn't stop for a minute. The Palestinian suicide bombers deliberately target women and children. The Israeli army is going after terrorists.

Vered Shemberg
Homemaker, 37, Petah Tikva
I'm still afraid. You don't know what can happen. I'm looking around me all the time. I'm confused, but I hope that the military operation will succeed.
We negotiated with the Palestinians; we almost reached agreements. But you can't make peace with them. They don't want us here.

Shir Yefet
Mrs. Shemberg's sister, 24,
Moshav Yarhiv, a collective farm
You wouldn't have seen us at a cafe last week, but now I'm feeling a bit more secure, because there haven't been attacks recently. The military operation is effective for now, but I fear we're going to get it later. The Palestinians' anger and desire to avenge what is being done to them is accumulating, and it will erupt the minute the army withdraws.
I'm all for talking to the Palestinians, but there was no alternative to launching this operation. We had to use force to rein in the violence. We had to do it so that at the end of the road, we would be able to sit down and talk.
This is temporary deterrence; it helps to save lives here. But on the morning after, we're going to have to negotiate. The Arabs won't love us and we won't love them, but we'll have to be civilized and cut a deal. 
No one is going to leave, so we'll have to recognize the fact that there are two peoples here in this country. I'm ready for coexistence, despite all the violence we've been through. Do we have a choice?

Tal Uzan
Contractor, 40, Ramat Aviv
The past Passover holiday was the first time we didn't go out to a cafe or pub. No trips, we didn't go anywhere, only visits to friends in the neighborhood. On my birthday last week, I didn't go out to celebrate. We didn't do anything. And every day you pray that there won't be an attack. 
We're fed up.
We have to hit back hard to send the message that enough is enough. They've destroyed everything: the economy, our life, our security. 
It's like we're living in a jail. We're not enjoying life, and I think it's time we put things in order. We have to get our hands on the infrastructure that is causing all this damage.
Until half a year ago, my whole life, I was a leftist. But then I lost faith in the leadership of the Palestinians. We gave Arafat his chance, but his role is finished. The Palestinians deserve someone better. 
He should be replaced, and we can do business with his successors.
When the dust settles I believe we'll sit together and talk. Why not? They just have to show us that we can trust them, that they don't want to throw us into the sea.

Michal Lugasi
Sales representative, 23, Netanya
This operation is completely justified because there's no other choice. If we won't be there, there won't be anyone to stop the terrorists before they get here.
We shouldn't hurt innocent people, but we have to get there to hit the terrorist infrastructure. The Palestinians are paying a heavy price, but so have we. It is troubling to see their losses, but after everything we've gone through, you develop a kind of toughness, an insensitivity to it.
With all due respect to President Bush's demand that we withdraw, we have our own leaders who know what has to be done. The Americans have their own interests. The operation has to continue, because the fact is that for almost a week there haven't been any terrorist attacks. If they give us enough time to finish it right, we'll achieve the aims, otherwise the targets won't be achieved.
I don't think this will solve the problem in the long run. 
For now it's effective. It will cause them some damage, and it will take them some time to reorganize. The solution is undoubtedly political: replacing their chairman with someone we can talk to."

Nissim Peled
Software engineer, 28, Tel Aviv
We had to do something. But I have doubts about the aims of the operation. Going in is not a problem, creating quiet for some time, but it's not clear where all this is heading. My brother is in an elite unit in the West Bank, and I'm concerned.
They say they want to fight terrorism and catch as many terrorists and bomb labs as they can, but it's not clear how this will end. 
Once you've done it and gotten out of there, it's unclear what comes next.
A country can't take such a major step without an ultimate goal. You can't just plunge into battle. You have to consider what to do in the next phase.
The situation we were in was for all intents and purposes a war. You couldn't sit in a cafe. This is not something on the border; you're living your daily life inside your own country, and you're waiting to get it from any direction.
War is not the solution, but I don't think that at the moment there's anyone to talk to on the other side. We don't want Israeli soldiers to remain there; we've been through that already. But once war has been declared on you, you have no choice. This is not a long-term solution, but at the moment, what else can we do?

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eli Levy at a Tel Aviv health club, where a guard searches a sports bag of a client. "We should definitely complete this mission."; Vared Shemberg with her son, Yuval, at a Kfar Saba mall, a frequent target of bombers. "I'm still afraid. You don't know what can happen."; Tal Uzan, alone at a normally crowded cafe. "It's like we're living in a jail. We're not enjoying life, and I think it's time we put things in order."; Michal Lugasi and Nissim Peled outside their offices in Herzlia. "Going in is not a problem," she said. "But it's not clear where all this is heading. (Photographs by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); WOMEN (60%) PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: GREENBERG, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (94%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



197 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Educated Filipinos, Disillusioned at Home, Look Abroad for a Better Life 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: MANILA, April 1 

 BODY:
Criselda Lomerio, a wisp of a woman with a gentle smile, would appear to be an exemplary Philippine citizen. She is an elementary school teacher and loves her profession, one that is badly needed in this poorly educated nation. She and her husband, Americo, scraped together enough to build their own home. Their three children give every promise of becoming upstanding citizens, also.
 But here was Mrs. Lomerio clutching a plump manila envelope at the entrance to the Canadian Embassy, ready to file the family's application for immigration. 
 Fifteen years after the dictator Ferdinand Marcos was brought down by the power of people who took to the streets, millions of Filipinos remain unconvinced that their country is worth the long-term sacrifice of staying here. Their onetime dreams of democracy and prosperity have faded before the dreary reality of a persistently weak economy, some of the world's worst pollution, rampant urban crime and corruption at every level of government. 
Educated families and young professionals -- nurses, doctors, computer analysts -- continue to leave the Philippines in droves. Before the downfall of Mr. Marcos, blue-collar workers sought work around the world, mainly as seamen and construction workers. But since then, it is the better educated who have been leaving, despite the promises of successive governments to improve the economy.
Their departure deprives their homeland of the chance to build a stable middle class and to crack a political system still encrusted with the oligarchs of the past.
All kinds of people flee. Nurses, trained in the Philippines at government expense, leave the underfinanced Filipino medical system for well-endowed hospitals in Saudi Arabia and the United States. Teachers migrate to Hong Kong to become maids to wealthy families, where they they can earn a starting salary of about $450 a month, compared with a teacher's salary of $200 at home. Computer analysts fetch considerably higher pay in Canada and Australia.
The latest trend is for young female college graduates or even women with just two years of college to go to Japan, where they work as hostesses in high-priced restaurants. Their college training is an essential requirement because Japanese employers insist that the women have the ability to learn Japanese.
"Thirty percent of my high school class is in the United States," said Sheila Coronel, the director of the Philippine Center for Investigative Reporting. "The country is bleeding. We educate these people and then they go overseas."
People like Mrs. Lomerio say that after long and careful thought they reach the conclusion that despite hard work and a desire to contribute to their country, they know they will never be assured a perch in a middle class that may emerge one day, but not any time soon. They are convinced, she said, that their children will be doomed to struggle amid poverty when they become adults in 10 to 15 years.
"Sometimes you think you want to stay," said Mrs. Lomerio, a wistful tinge to her words, after pushing her package through the well-worn slot of the wooden box marked "permanent immigration." "But then in the long run you think that in a family like ours you can't stay."
Only the "high-profile families" -- her term for people with inherited wealth and position or long-established businesses -- can afford to stay, she said.
Her husband, an architectural draftsman, has worked in Saudi Arabia for the last six years and regularly sends most of his paycheck home. Even so, their modest new house remains unfinished -- it lacks a proper kitchen -- and she sees little chance of its being completed. With their children ages 15, 13 and 11, now was the time to go and to be together, she said.
Filipinos have long been wanderers. Their ability to speak English and their Western-tinged outlook after years of Spanish and American colonization help make the Philippines the world's second-largest exporter of labor, after Mexico.
About five million Filipinos live abroad, according to the country's Labor Department. Nongovernmental organizations in Manila put the figure as high as 7.5 million. Most work in the Middle East, with the United States the second-most-popular destination, followed by other countries in Asia.
Their remittances, scrupulously counted by the nation's budgeters, constitute the second-largest source of foreign exchange, just behind the nation's exports of electronic goods. The Philippine economy is so dependent on the overseas workers that when the American economy dips, it is not the decline in exports to the United States that matters but the drop in remittances from Filipinos in the United States.
About 60 percent of the $6 billion in remittances sent back to the Philippines from overseas last year came from the United States, according to the central bank. Another $4 billion slides into the country from remittances that are not sent through bank channels, economists say.
Social commentators and economists have warned successive Philippine governments that the export of labor is a shortsighted policy. In the long run, they argue, emigration deprives the nation of one of its best investments, skilled citizens.
But every government since Mr. Marcos's fall in 1986 has maintained a manpower policy that encourages emigration, says Guillermo M. Luz, the executive director of the Makita Business Club, a group that encourages foreign investment.
Filipino emigrants are referred to in the newspapers as "OFW's," for overseas Filipino workers. Government officials praise the workers for their courage and their devotion to their homeland. Now President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo wants legislation that would allow their votes to be counted for the first time -- in time for her re-election campaign in 2004. More than three million votes could be cast by Filipino citizens abroad if the bill were passed, some estimates show.
"The government can't see the paradigm of creating jobs fast enough at home," Mr. Luz said. The Philippines has about 30 percent unemployment and underemployment, he said.
In order to protect the interests of the powerful elite, governments in the 1990's were reluctant to allow foreign investment in important industries, a policy that hindered job creation, he said. "Our argument was that you should import the jobs rather than export labor."
Mr. Luz wants Filipinos to stay home. When he was 9, he traveled to Canada with his father, Alfredo Luz, a distinguished architect. He returned 10 years later.
He has stayed in Manila ever since, arguing that by remaining in the Philippines he has a less stressful life than his five brothers who live in the United States. "Most important, I can make a contribution here," Mr. Luz said.
But Mr. Luz comes from a privileged background, and those with lesser social advantages find it hard to agree.
The six-millionth migrant to Australia, Cristina Jurado, 29, accompanied by her husband, Karlos, 32, and their two children, was welcomed to Sydney last month with much fanfare by Australian dignitaries. Before leaving Manila, she said that her patriotism was very much intact and that she did not really want to go. She had a stable job as a systems analyst and her husband worked in his family's industrial gas business.
But she did not want her children to grow up, she said, "in a country where even 5-year-olds are raped, the pollution will kill you and the authorities cannot be trusted anymore."
That emigration continues apace is a sure sign that the ambitions that drove the 1986 revolution against President Marcos remain unfulfilled.
"For those who have lost faith, the answer is going overseas," said Ms. Coronel of the investigative reporting center. "You don't join a political organization, you line up at an embassy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Criselda Lomerio wants to leave the Philippines and move to Canada with her husband and three children. (Lyn Rillon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REFUGEES (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); ENDOWMENTS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); ETHICS (68%); CORRUPTION (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MARCOS, FERDINAND E (1917-89) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (78%) PHILIPPINES (98%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) PHILIPPINES

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



198 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Some See Hope in New Jersey's Fiscal Plight, for Changing Taxation 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 5 

 BODY:
New Jersey's fiscal desperation gives some people a perverse hope: that the repercussions will be bad enough to generate interest in ripping up the state's tax system and starting over. 
 The budget that Gov. James E. McGreevey just stitched together promises to shift some expenses to local governments. And the source of almost all their revenue, the property tax, is already hated and already high. 
 New Jersey's per-capita property-tax bills are the highest in the nation, and about twice the national average. Moreover, property taxes account for an unusually high share of total state and local revenue: more than 45 percent, compared with a national average of about 32 percent. 
Virtually no one says this is a good idea. Gov. Jim Florio, in his last State of the State address eight years ago, said that "over-reliance on property taxes is the single most important problem our state faces." 
But when he spoke, Mr. Florio had just lost re-election, having taken the alternative route of raising income and sales taxes. No one has dared to do that since.
At the same time, New Jerseyans have clung to their inefficient and overlapping local governments, whatever the cost. 
But now, many legislators and fiscal experts say, the state might be forced to rewrite its tax system. "We need a crisis to get us mobilized," said Henry A. Coleman, an economist at Rutgers who was director of an exhaustive study on the state's tax system in the 1980's. 
One idea for breaking the deadlock, a constitutional convention on property tax reform, is growing along with resentment over widespread local tax increases. These increases are all but certain since Mr. McGreevey rejected increases in income and sales taxes and asked for a freeze on aid to local governments.
The state legislators who gathered in Trenton last month to endorse the constitutional convention proposal called the property tax grossly inequitable, antiquated, harshly regressive and punitive, among other things. 
That has also been the consensus of several decades' worth of blue-ribbon commissions, including Mr. Coleman's, along with a spectrum of research and advocacy groups.
Liberals hate the property tax because it is regressive; planners hate it because it encourages sprawl and residential segregation; urbanites hate it because it starves the cities; and good-government groups hate it for all those reasons.
Most of all, the critics say, New Jersey has to find a better way of financing its schools. The state pays about 42 percent of total school costs, while the national average is about 50 percent. Meanwhile, New Jersey's per-pupil costs, more than $10,000 a year, are the highest in the nation. 
The State Supreme Court, in the course of nearly 30 years of litigation over school finance, has said the state could not meet its constitutional obligation to children in poorer districts because it relies so heavily on "a local property base overtaxed to exhaustion."
While state aid to poor districts has increased substantially since that decision in 1990, residents of those districts still have disproportionately high property taxes.
A recent analysis by New Jersey Future, a statewide planning organization, shows a steady inverse relationship between a municipality's wealth and its tax rates: even accounting for widely varying assessment levels, the study found that the 32 municipalities with the highest per-capita incomes had an average property tax rate of less than 1.5 percent, while the 24 poorest had an average rate of 3.5 percent or more.
"It really, starkly illustrates the problem," said Tim Evans, the group's research director. "Anyone who can afford to leave does, leaving the poorest to pay the rest. It chases out businesses that used to pay. It's a self-reinforcing downward spiral."
The better-off suburbs, meanwhile, receive less state money for schools and their officials say the complex formula used to calculate aid does not compensate for the sharp enrollment increases that some suburbs are experiencing. And each new house that contains children is a net loss to the tax rolls.
"People are frightened to death of having children move into their community," said Ed O'Brien, the mayor of Metuchen, a middle-class town of 12,840 that pays more than 90 percent of its own education costs.
When a new condominium development was proposed recently, "it was an enormous fight," Mr. O'Brien said. "I had to convince people that people coming here are not going to have kids. That's not healthy."
In addition to the schools, which take about 70 percent of property tax revenue, New Jersey municipalities support expensive local governments, many of which refuse to share services. The state's 566 municipalities have nearly that many municipal buildings, hundreds of collections of snowplows and quite a few $90,000-a-year police chiefs. 
New Jersey is hardly the only state with these problems, but others distribute the pain more evenly and more progressively by relying less on property taxes. The typical mix of revenue is about 30 percent each from income, sales and property taxes, and 10 percent from other sources, Mr. Coleman said.
Most other states with high average property-tax payments have no sales tax or income tax. New Hampshire, which ranks second to New Jersey, has neither. New Jersey's per capita payment in 1998, the last year for which figures are available, was $1,744, and New Hampshire's was $1,545. 
New York and Connecticut also had high property taxes ($1,345 and $1,533 per capita, respectively), but both rely more on income taxes than New Jersey does.
Michigan, which used to rank near New Jersey, scrapped local school property taxes altogether by raising other taxes, devising a much lower statewide property tax and redistributing the proceeds. Since Michigan's restructuring in 1993, many other states have tried variations on the model. 
It is only because New Jersey's Legislature shows no sign of changing the tax structure that some influential legislators, acknowledging that they need the political cover, are calling for a constitutional convention, a proposal that promises nothing but deliberation and needs voter approval before it can even begin. 
Still, the idea is "the only thing that provides a sense of moving forward," said Judith Cambria, a fiscal analyst for the state's League of Women Voters. Ms. Cambria supported the proposal for a convention when it was introduced in the Legislature last year, but it died without much notice.
Ms. Cambria left the country over the winter, and when she returned recently, she said, "What really shocked me is I go away for two months, and I came back and all of a sudden this was really being talked about." 
The bill was probably doomed last year because the Republicans still controlled the Legislature, said Senator John H. Adler, a Democrat and a primary sponsor. "It's hard for the party in power to say that the system they've been running for the last decade is broken."
Still, the proposal is supported by some influential Republicans, including Senators Robert J. Martin and John J. Matheussen, both sponsors.
Then, too, hardly anyone was talking about a fiscal crisis last year.
"It's here now," Ms. Cambria said. "It's not going to get better. The things they did during the 90's were designed to push things off to the future, and the bills are here." 
Mayor O'Brien in Metuchen said voters were willing to talk. "I think people are more reasonable than politicians give them credit for," he said. "The income tax -- I don't think that's the death knell in this state, but people in Trenton are frightened.
"But these talking heads on cable screaming about taxes crowd out intelligent discourse. Year after year, because of an archaic formula that even people who are in the education community can't explain, you have a Gresham's law, the bad driving out the good."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TALLY: Ranking High"While New Jersey residents pay the nation's highest property taxes, other high-tax states rely more on income, sales and other state taxes. PROPERTY TAXES, PER CAPITA, 19981. New Jersey: $1,7442. New Hampshire: 1,5453. Connecticut: 1,5334. New York: 1,3455. Maine: 1,313National Average: 851 STATE AND LOCAL TAXES, PER CAPITA, 19981. Connecticut: $4,4252. New York: 4,3183. New Jersey: 3,6984. Massachusetts: 3,5315. Minnesota: 3,490National Average: 2,863 (Source: New Jersey Business and Industry Assoc.)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (87%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX REFORM (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (63%); LITIGATION (60%) CONSTITUTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PUBLIC OPINION; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PROPERTY TAXES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 



199 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
N.Y. Goliaths Too Rich For Tampa Bay Davids

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass

 BODY:
If Commissioner Bud Selig wants to sell his labor platform to anyone -- fans, recalcitrant owners or, most important, players -- he might want to instruct Major League Baseball Productions to make a videotape of the weekend series the Tampa Bay Devil Rays played at Yankee Stadium, then show it again and again and again. It could be Selig's Exhibit A.
 Here were the $34 million Devil Rays trying to scale the imposing mountain of the $131 million Yankees, and the matchup more closely resembled a dads-kids game, although fathers presumably would give their children more of a chance than the Devil Rays had against the Yankees. Hal McRae, the Devil Rays' manager, repeatedly used the word overmatched. 
 "We were just dominated by the Yankees," he said yesterday. "If they keep doing this, they're going to beat a lot of people. That's what they set out to do. They didn't spend $130 million to lose."
Major League Baseball has never before had the payroll of one team exceed the payroll of another by nearly $100 million. By the end of the season, the difference will probably be more than $100 million. Yet the overmatched Devil Rays have to play the Yankees 16 more times.
The Devil Rays have to play the games, despite their economic and physical deficiencies, because the Yankees need someone to play when they go out on the field each afternoon or night. An intrasquad game might create closer competition, but fans won't very likely spend $42 to see Roger Clemens pitch against Andy Pettitte.
This idea of having someone to play is a point Selig and the owners of the poorer teams haven't argued strongly enough in their efforts to get the players to allow the commissioner to take more of George Steinbrenner's money through revenue sharing and a luxury tax. They have taken surveys that purport to show fans' increasing dissatisfaction with competitive imbalance but have not spent enough time pointing out that as distasteful as it might be to Steinbrenner and the players who want him to save his money for them, the Yankees need an opponent 162 days a year. Do the Devil Rays qualify as an opponent? They showed up this weekend but didn't provide much opposition. In three games they scored a total of two runs.
Clemens was the Yankees' starter yesterday, and the dubious honor of matching pitches with him went to Tanyon Sturtze. Here was a 31-year-old journeyman pitcher opposing a six-time winner of the Cy Young award, a pitcher with a $295,000 salary against one who will earn $10.3 million or $15.45 million this year, depending on your method of calculation.
In the interest of full disclosure, it should be recalled that last September, in the first game at Yankee Stadium after the Sept. 11 attacks, Sturtze pitched seven shutout innings while Clemens gave up four runs in six and two-thirds innings in a 4-0 Tampa Bay victory, which ended Clemens's winning streak at 16 games.
No one could expect Sturtze to repeat that performance yesterday; yet he said he viewed such a matchup as a positive.
"I knew I was going against Clemens, and I knew I couldn't give up anything," he said. "I try to elevate my game to be like him and to try to stay with him. In the first inning I didn't give my team a chance to even compete in the game."
Sturtze said he got some pitches up, and the Yankees used his mistakes against him in scoring a quick three runs. "I think that's what they do better than anyone else, capitalize on mistakes where other teams miss them," he said.
Sturtze and other members of the Devil Rays rejected the notion that it was unfair to ask them to play the Yankees, a low-paid, inexperienced team against a high-paid collection of veteran players.
"We know what we're facing," McRae said, "but we don't know the outcome. We come in to try to change the outcome. We didn't this time. We have in the past."
Brent Abernathy, a young second baseman, said the players were not awed by the Yankees at all. "As a major league player, you have to play up to your capabilities," he said. "If you do that, you're going to be in ballgames and have a chance to win ballgames. We didn't play up to our capabilities."
Why didn't the Devil Rays play well in the weekend series?
"What do you want me to say?" Abernathy replied, his voice rising. "You want me to say the Yankees are the best team out there? I just told you we didn't play up to our capabilities. You want me to say they're gods? They're not."
Pettitte, Orlando Hernandez and Clemens might have had something to do with the Devil Rays' performance.
"We couldn't generate any offense," McRae said. "We were completely shut down. Sometimes you run into a hot pitching staff, and they were hot. The swings tell you the most. We didn't get good swings this series."
Now in their fifth year, the Devil Rays have lost to the Yankees 41 times and have beaten them 17 times. They haven't been quite the fodder that the Washington Generals have been for the Harlem Globetrotters, but they do resemble the Washington Senators, whom the Yankees of another era beat up regularly.
The predictable outcome of those series didn't prompt talk of the inability of low-revenue teams to compete with high-revenue teams. But Selig doesn't believe that slice of major league history is relevant to today's circumstances.
It isn't exactly clear why Yankees-Devil Rays circa 2002 is different from Yankees-Senators 1944-56 (195-89, .687) or Yankees-St. Louis Browns/Baltimore Orioles 1946-55 (163-57, .741). But if Selig wants to plunge his hand deeper into Steinbrenner's pocket, the tapes of the weekend games are available. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (77%); CHILDREN (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002 



200 of 763 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Ayer, one of Madison Avenue's oldest names, is fading away as it is absorbed by Kaplan Thaler.

BYLINE:  By Allison Fass 

 BODY:
AN old name in advertising is disappearing after 133 years. N. W. Ayer is being merged into a sibling agency in New York, the Kaplan Thaler Group, by their parent, the Bcom3 Group.
 Ayer, most recently known as N. W. Ayer & Partners, was founded as N. W. Ayer & Son in 1869 in Philadelphia. Ayer helped sell America on the Bell telephone system, Camel cigarettes and the Model A Ford. And over the years, Ayer copywriters created famous slogans like "When it rains it pours" for Morton salt, "Reach out and touch someone" for AT&T, "A diamond is forever" for De Beers and "Be all that you can be" for the Army. 
 Ayer and the J. Walter Thompson unit of the WPP Group had long fought in a friendly way over which agency ought to be known as America's oldest. Thompson maintains it should, tracing its roots to 1864. The battle is over now, as Ayer joins the Madison Avenue Valhalla reserved for once-familiar names like Ally & Gargano, Griffin Bacal, Warwick Baker Fiore and Wells Rich Greene.
Effective today, Ayer's 50 employees will begin working for Kaplan Thaler, which was founded in 1997; that doubles the size of the staff at Kaplan Thaler. Ayer's accounts, for clients like Charming Shoppes, Continental Airlines, the KitchenAid division of Maytag and Villeroy & Boch, will be transferred to Kaplan Thaler, increasing the billings at Kaplan Thaler to $325 million from about $225 million.
"The situation is very clear," said Roger Haupt, chairman and chief executive at Bcom3 in Chicago. Kaplan Thaler "has been extremely successful," he said, "and we wanted to build on that success."
The absorption of Ayer by Kaplan Thaler is unrelated, Mr. Haupt said, to the deal Bcom3 agreed to last month to be acquired for $3 billion by the Publicis Groupe in Paris. The Ayer move had been discussed for about six months, he added.
Kaplan Thaler, named for its chief executive and chief creative officer, Linda Kaplan Thaler, is known for producing advertising that consumers talk about for various reasons. The campaigns the agency creates for Aflac insurance are cute and funny, featuring a duck that quacks the company's name. The campaigns the agency creates for the Clairol Herbal Essences line of personal-care products, now owned by Procter & Gamble, are sexually provocative, centered on young women acting out scenes of intense ecstasy.
Other Kaplan Thaler clients include Blimpie International, the Coldwell Banker division of the Cendant Corporation and Pilot Pen. Ms. Kaplan Thaler, 51, will continue in her posts.
Heading the combined agency will be a challenge, Ms. Kaplan Thaler said, but it will also be "exciting" because the merger "made good business sense."
"It's difficult for agencies that are very small to flourish sometimes," she added, "and the economy makes everything a little bit more challenging."
The two agencies are a good match, Ms. Kaplan Thaler said, because they have similar cultures, many job functions "dovetailed" and there were no client conflicts.
Kaplan Thaler had been planning to relocate to Worldwide Plaza in Midtown Manhattan, where Ayer is based, she added. That move will now be in May.
Mary Beth Casey, 46, who had been president and chief executive at Ayer, is to "pursue several opportunities" at Bcom3 or Publicis, said Tricia Kenney, a spokeswoman for Ayer and Kaplan Thaler. The acquisition is to close by the end of June.
N. W. Ayer & Son was founded in Philadelphia on April 1, 1869. The founder was not, in fact, N. W. Ayer, but his son, Francis Wayland Ayer. The agency remained based in Philadelphia for more than 100 years, until it left for New York in 1973. In the early 1990's, Ayer faced difficult times, losing several large accounts like J. C. Penney and experiencing turmoil in the executive suite. The move to Worldwide Plaza burdened the agency with high costs, as did contracts for retired top executives.
As recently as 1996, Ayer had four offices and 585 employees, working on accounts with billings of $800 million for clients like AT&T, Avon Products, General Motors and Gillette. That year, the Ayer parent, Adcom Investors, agreed to sell the agency to the MacManus Group, which also owned agencies like D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles.
MacManus and the Leo Group in Chicago, which owned agencies like Leo Burnett Worldwide, merged to form Bcom3 in early 2000.
It was the right decision to consign the Ayer name to history, Mr. Haupt said, because "you don't want to end up in a situation where you ask, 'Is this Ayer? Is this Kaplan?' "
"It's Kaplan," he added, referring to the merged agency. "I don't believe in ambiguity."
Why not call the merged agency by the more famous Ayer name?
"The Kaplan Thaler Group doesn't carry the weight of a lot of history with it," Ms. Kaplan Thaler said. "So it has, in a way, a lighter load to carry."
In a final nod to history, Ayer will donate its archives and campaign materials to the National Museum of American History of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising Column in Business Day yesterday about the disappearance of the N. W. Ayer agency name misidentified the parent company of KitchenAid, an Ayer client. It is Whirlpool, not Maytag.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AIRLINES (65%) ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (95%); THE KAPLAN THALER GROUP (90%); JWT (70%); AFLAC INC (63%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (61%); WPP PLC (58%); NW AYER & PARTNERS (58%); VILLEROY & BOCH AG (54%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BCOM3 GROUP; KAPLAN THALER GROUP; AYER, N W, & PARTNERS 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (95%); AFL (NYSE) (63%); 8686 (TSE) (63%); CAR (NASDAQ) (61%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); VIB3 (FRA) (54%); UAL (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (61%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (61%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (61%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (61%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS314120 CURTAIN & LINEN MILLS (54%); SIC3262 VITREOUS CHINA TABLE & KITCHEN ARTICLES (54%); SIC2392 HOUSEFURNISHINGS, EXCEPT CURTAINS & DRAPERIES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: FASS, ALLISON; KAPLAN THALER, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002 

 
