

601 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MATINICUS JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Salve for the Wound of an Ailing Industry

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MATINICUS, Me. 

 BODY:
This tiny island, 22 miles out at sea, is generally so quiet that it is hard to imagine the chaos that descended one midsummer day. 
 Early that morning, one veteran lobsterman shot and seriously wounded another on the Matinicus wharf, the peak of a dispute over whether the gunman's son-in-law -- a mainlander -- could fish in the waters surrounding the island. The feud had been escalating for months, a symptom of the economic crisis battering lobstermen up and down Maine's coast. 
 Now the gunman is banned from the island, and the roughly three dozen other lobstermen here are pleading for help. They want the state to carve out a restricted zone where only full-time Matinicus residents can catch lobsters, an extraordinary step that the state is now considering to preserve the local livelihood and the island itself. Such a zone would most likely need legislative approval.
 ''The idea is to make sure that people who are taking lobsters off this piece of bottom are living here on the island,'' said Clayton Philbrook, a lobsterman whose ancestors settled here in the 1820s. ''If we lose control, we fold up and die -- that's it.'' 
 The fishing industry is suffering nationally, a victim of depleted stocks, tightening regulations and competition from other countries. But Maine, which produces 80 percent of the nation's lobster catch and depends more on fishing than most states, is especially hard hit.
 Lobstering is as vital as oxygen on Matinicus, which is smaller than Central Park. But the global recession has made an already fragile livelihood all the more so, forcing Maine's lobster fleet to grapple with the steepest price decline in decades.
 Soft-shell lobster was fetching about $2.30 a pound at the docks last week, down from $4.25 in August 2005; the hard-shell variety was going for about $4.50 a pound, down from $6.50. That drop, combined with higher costs for bait, fuel and gear, has made tensions in the industry as thick as Down East fog. 
 Law enforcement officials blame those tensions for a rash of hostile incidents among lobstermen, including the shooting on Matinicus and the sinking of three boats at the wharf in Owls Head this month. Those attacks and a spate of trap cuttings have led the marine police to increase patrols and have made lobstermen, wary by nature, more anxious than ever. 
 ''I wake up in the middle of the night thinking, 'How did it ever get to this point?' '' said Joseph Bray, who has fished here for 22 years. ''People are so tired of conflict.'' 
 Officially, anyone with a Maine lobster license can set traps almost anywhere in state waters. Most lobstermen are allowed 800 traps each, making for a crowded ocean floor. 
 But unofficially, each harbor has its own boundaries, determined by local lobstermen over the decades. Newcomers often find their buoys snatched or their trap lines cut. The lobstermen who live on Maine's rugged islands are especially territorial and known for practicing frontier justice; in one notorious case in 2000, two lobstermen fought over turf with a pitchfork and a fish gaff.
 The ''gear wars'' are as old as lobstering itself; with few official rules, the state tacitly allows them. The feuds are usually resolved more quietly, but in this summer of discontent they have taken on operatic tones. 
 The authorities say that on July 19, Vance Bunker, 68, shot Chris Young, 41, in the neck with a .22-caliber pistol after the two had argued for weeks over whether Mr. Bunker's son-in-law had the right to fish off Matinicus. Mr. Bunker has said he had to use pepper spray to get Mr. Young off his boat earlier that day; he has been charged with aggravated assault but is free on bail on the condition that he stay off the island.
 ''The newcomer has moved his traps and taken them back to where he had been fishing for 40-plus years,'' Mr. Bray said of Mr. Bunker's son-in-law, Alan Miller. ''I believe that defused the situation, but we need to put something in place so that we don't have someone else next month try the same thing.''
 The idea of a resident-only lobstering zone is not without precedent. The state approved a two-mile ''conservation zone'' around Monhegan Island in 1998, restricting access to local lobstermen, who had complained about interlopers from the mainland. 
 But in return, Monhegan lobstermen agreed to set fewer traps -- they are now limited to 300 each, far fewer than the 800 allowed in most of the state's waters. Lobstermen there now say the limit is too harsh and have asked the state to reconsider.
 Mr. Philbrook said Matinicus should not have to accept a lower trap limit because its economy is in a more desperate state than Monhegan's, which benefits from tourism as well as fishing. 
 ''It's a different situation,'' he said. ''We have nothing else.''
 George Lapointe, the state's commissioner of marine resources, said he had not yet decided whether to endorse a resident-only zone for Matinicus and had to consider the constitutional rights of all of the state's roughly 5,800 licensed lobstermen. 
 ''I've had three other islands say they're interested in getting their own zone if we create one for Matinicus,'' Mr. Lapointe said. ''One of the concerns is the balkanization of lobster territories along the coast.'' 
 He said that enforcing the zone around Monhegan had proved expensive for the state, and that while the shooting on Matinicus had put the island's problems under a magnifying glass, lobstermen up and down Maine's coast were hurting. 
 Mr. Philbrook predicted that the state would ultimately allow a resident-only lobstering zone off Matinicus, partly out of self-interest. 
 ''It would solve a bunch of problems for them,'' he said. ''They may not be looking at it from the perspective that it's going to save the community, but they just figure that it's going to cut down on the gear conflicts and the troubles that have been going on.'' 
 Mr. Philbrook said that the state would ideally limit the number of lobstermen in the waters off Matinicus to a few dozen, but that if ''the right person comes along'' -- a son of a local lobsterman, for example, or anyone else who committed to living there full time -- the number could grow. 
 ''Anybody from the mainland that's got less than five years fishing our bottom,'' he said, ''had better start looking for a piece of land.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Craig Macleod, top, is among the Maine lobstermen facing a drop in prices. Those on Matinicus want a residents-only lobstering zone.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



602 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: On to Plan B: Starting a Business

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
CALL them accidental entrepreneurs, unintended entrepreneurs or forced entrepreneurs. A year and a half into the Great Recession, with the jobless rate hovering near double digits, corporate refugees like Lisa Marie Grillos of San Francisco are trying to fend for themselves.
 Along with her brother Hernan Barangan, Mrs. Grillos started Hambone Designs, after her full-time contract position with Williams-Sonoma as a production manager wasn't renewed in January. The new company makes bicycle bags that hold things like keys, wallets and cellphones. 
 ''You have the time -- why not focus your energy on something, rather than just trolling Craigslist and sitting and watching TV?'' Mrs. Grillos says. ''It's really taking matters in my own hands.''
 Mrs. Grillos, 34, built a Web site called hambonedesigns.com, opened a virtual shop on Etsy.com, an online marketplace, and hit San Francisco street fairs. So far, between the online marketing and the street fairs, she and her brother have sold 70 bags, which retail for $20 to $40. Each sale results in a profit. 
 ''We have been talking about mass producing, but we're not there yet,'' Mrs. Grillos says. ''It is a whole other thing, approaching stores and having the inventory.'' 
 To help make ends meet, Mrs. Grillos also does textile design and photography projects, and it helps that her husband has a full-time job. 
 Others among the unemployed are taking the entrepreneurial route. The most recent Index of Entrepreneurial Activity by the Kauffman Foundation showed a slight uptick of new businesses in 2008 -- a full recessionary year -- over 2007. An average of 320 Americans out of 100,000 formed a business each month, Kauffman said. What's more, it found, the patterns ''provide some early evidence that 'necessity' entrepreneurship is increasing and 'opportunity' entrepreneurship is decreasing.''
 Accidental or by design, entrepreneurship is on the rise again this year. LegalZoom, the online legal document service, says the number of new businesses it helped to form was up 10 percent in the first half of the year, compared with the period a year earlier. 
 ''We were surprised,'' says Brian Liu, co-founder and chairman of LegalZoom. ''We expected there to be a drastic downtick.'' 
 LegalZoom's top five areas of incorporation, he says, are real estate, consulting, Internet (including electronic commerce), retail, and construction and contractors.
 To be sure, a vast majority of corporate workers who have been laid off since December 2007 have sought another corporate job. After all, starting a business in the worst downturn in decades seems especially risky. Only two-thirds of new small businesses survive at least two years, according to the Small Business Administration. That survival rate falls to 44 percent at four years, and to 31 percent at seven. 
 The silver lining may be that the survival rate is about the same in expansions and recessions, says Dane Stangler, senior analyst at Kauffman.
 WHILE the Internet has made the formation process quick and inexpensive -- papers can be filed with LegalZoom, for example, for $149 in addition to state filing fees -- the costs of owning a business add up quickly. There are state and local taxes and fees, insurance, salaries and contract pay, overhead, inventory and the like. And these days, lenders are none too generous when it comes to forking over money to new businesses.
 These factors, combined with the lack of a steady paycheck, often-inadequate health insurance and the sheer emotional stress of being unemployed, may prevent many people from setting out on their own.
 But research on what is known as post-traumatic growth has found that some people become more resilient when faced with adversity, says Shawn Achor, a Harvard researcher. Creativity surges, he says, as they adapt to a new situation.
 ''Their brain is actually learning at a faster pace than when they are not challenged,'' Mr. Achor says. ''As a result of this, some individuals, the accidental entrepreneurs, they are the ones who in the midst of crisis actually respond with growth.''
 In a report this summer on innovation, Ernst & Young wrote, ''Experience shows that entrepreneurs should not give up on start-ups in a down economy.''
 Many companies with billion-dollar market capitalizations were started during a recession, the report said, including Starbucks, Intuit and PetSmart. 
 Research from Kauffman in June found that more than half of the companies on the Fortune 500 list in 2009 and nearly half of the companies on the Inc. magazine 2008 list were founded during a recession or bear market.
 Lynn Zuckerman Gray, 60, hopes to be one of the success stories of this recession. She lost her job at Lehman Brothers almost a year ago, when the firm collapsed. A former chief administrative officer of its global real estate group, she found herself competing with a rising number of job seekers for a dwindling pool of jobs. 
 Ms. Gray ended up participating in a New York City program, offered in conjunction with the Kauffman Foundation, called FastTrac NewVenture. The program, for employees displaced by the financial crisis, sent Ms. Gray in a direction she never thought she would go: starting an on-campus recruiting company called Campus Scout. 
 ''I guess I had an entrepreneur simmering inside me because I've always been very creative,'' she says. 
 The cost has been hundreds of dollars here and there, she says. Still, the reality of her financial situation is daunting. Her severance pay from Lehman ended this month, and she is now eating into her savings. So far, her new venture, Campus Scout, is in start-up mode and does not have any clients. 
 She says she is going to try to get part-time work, teach university classes and do some freelance writing to generate cash flow so she can keep her business going for at least two years. 
 IT'S not just ex-corporate workers who have started businesses out of necessity. In February, Jackie Burke, 68, a retired schoolteacher, and her daughter, Jackie McAlister, 38, a schoolteacher on maternity leave, formed the Cup and Saucer Cookie Company in Ocean City, N.J.
 ''I never in my lifetime thought of owning a business,'' Ms. McAlister said, ''the economy has forced us to be creative.'' And fast-acting. Stocks nosedived in the fall, and so did her mother's retirement account.
 ''Mom was crying, and she said, 'Maybe I can go to Borders to see if they are hiring.' I said, I'm not going to watch my retired 68-year-old mom, with two knee replacements, go work at Borders. This is not going to happen.''
 Instead, Ms. McAlister and her mother brainstormed about starting an Internet business. A claim to fame they both had was making cookies, she said. She did research in January, filed incorporation papers on LegalZoom in February, started a Web site using GoDaddy.com, and by March sold their first cookies.
 ''It sounds like a crazy idea, but it was out of total necessity,'' Ms. McAlister said. ''We had to do something.''
 Their Internet business is slow, helped mainly through her Facebook friends and local news coverage, she said. They sell about $200 worth on the Internet each month and about $100 at a local cafe each month. They are near to breaking even, Ms. McAlister said.
 Even when she returns to school in the fall, she said, they will keep it going. ''The experience has been totally worth it,'' she said, and has had the added benefit of distracting them from things out of their control, like the stock market.
 Entrepreneurs like the McAlisters, Ms. Grayand Mrs. Grillos have been helped by a growing number of companies that cater to the needs of new businesses. 
 Recently, Mrs. Grillos attended a networking event in San Francisco organized by Outright.com, which offers bookkeeping software, and Network Solutions, a company that helps small businesses start and market on the Web. The companies had specialists on hand to talk about accounting, tax, legal and other issues facing new business owners.
 Kevin Reeth, chief executive of Outright, says, ''We realized these people, who have had careers and worked for other people most of their professional life, are not at all prepared to go out and become a business owner.''
 The companies jointly started a Web site, unintentionalentrepreneur.com, as a resource and embarked on a five-city tour in partnership with local chambers of commerce and Score, the national group of volunteer mentors. Last week, the tour ended in Manhattan, but the hope is that the networking will continue, Mr. Reeth says.
 ANOTHER company that is tailoring its services to very small and new businesses is InfoStreet, a maker of Web-based small-business management software. Michael Hart, 53, of Nashville, says InfoStreet recently had the backbone of NewTerraLiving.com, his new online marketplace for eco-friendly goods, up and running very quickly, and at a very affordable cost.
 Mr. Hart started his business after he left an electronic publishing company a year ago. He has been living off his savings and now has booked sales on his site. ''The significantly lower costs associated with building the technology infrastructure as well as the phenomenon of social network marketing allowed me to jump in,'' he says.
 So, will all of these new ventures become viable entities, or are they simply resume builders and time fillers for people temporarily out of work? For Mr. Hart, it is definitely not a path to a cubicle. ''If successful, I don't see myself returning to corporate America,'' he says. ''If I'm not successful, I would definitely start another company -- if my wife doesn't kill me.'' 
 Mrs. Grillos acknowledges that she is still job-hunting. ''It would be great if this became my full-time job and grew that big,'' she says of Hambone Designs. ''Even if I found one, I would still have this on the side.''
 Martha E. Mangelsdorf, author of ''Strategies for Successful Career Change,'' says job seekers should be careful about spreading their energy too thinly. ''Starting an ambitious business is such a consuming endeavor, I think it would be hard to do that and look for a job at the same time,'' Ms. Mangelsdorf says.
 ''You should try to be clear if you're starting a business that that's really what you want to do, as opposed to you're only doing it because you can't find work elsewhere,'' she says.
 No matter what, those who become accidental entrepreneurs have a leg up on the competition, according to Mr. Reeth of Outright. ''The process of going into business is going to make anybody who tried it better, smarter and more capable,'' he says.
 ''Whether it ultimately ends a successful journey in terms of staying in business and this is what you do or you go back and get another job,'' he adds, ''the skills they will have to develop are going to serve them very well.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When her job at Williams-Sonoma ended, Lisa Marie Grillos started a company with her brother, making bags to go on bicycles. She is one of the recession's many ''accidental entrepreneurs.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU1)
Lynn Zuckerman Gray, right, who worked as a chief administrative officer, has started a recruiting company, Campus Scout.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lisa Marie Grillos working in her basement. ''You have the time,'' she says, ''why not focus your energy on something?''(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU4) CHART: An Uptick in Start-Ups: In 2008, an average of 0.32 percent of adults started a new business each month, a higher rate than in previous years.(Source: Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation)(pg. BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); WEB SITES (54%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



603 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: A Banker for the World

 BODY:
I'M the eldest of seven children in a military family. By the time I was 6, my father was serving the second of three tours in Vietnam. In his free time, he worked with an adoption agency there. 
 At my Catholic school in Highland Falls, N.Y., there was a poster of a child with a rice bowl on our classroom wall in first grade. I adored my teacher, Sister Mary Theophane, who talked about the idea that ''To whom much is given, much is expected.'' Between her influence and my father's work in Vietnam, I became mesmerized with children worldwide. 
 I studied international relations and economics at the University of Virginia. I paid my way by working as a bartender in the summer and at three part-time jobs during the year. When I graduated I wanted to take a year and do something fun. My parents were smart. Instead of yelling at me, they said that it was a fine idea, but that I should go on a few interviews, for the experience. 
 I had an interview at Chase Manhattan Bank, and when the interviewer asked me why I wanted to be a banker, I told him I didn't. I was just assuaging my parents.
 The man said that was too bad, because I would have gotten to visit 40 countries in the next three years and learn all about them. I almost died, because that had been my dream. I asked if I could start over. He asked me again why I wanted to be a banker, and I told him that ever since I was 6, it was my biggest dream in life. We laughed. I got a second interview and was offered the job. I started in 1983.
 Chase trained me in finance and cash flow and how companies work, and I did work in 40 countries. It was a gift from the universe and the perfect beginning of a career.
 I loved being a banker, but I felt that banks were missing an opportunity in not extending their services to more low-income people. I decided to leave Chase and move to Rwanda, where I helped build its first microfinance institution. I also helped start a bakery with six Rwandan women. Their stories became the starting point for ''The Blue Sweater,'' a book I wrote about how to assist developing countries in building organizations that help their citizens.
 The key is giving access to affordable services like clean water, adequate health care and energy sources so they can make their own decisions and change their own lives. That's where dignity starts.
 I returned to the United States to attend Stanford for an M.B.A and heard the president of the Rockefeller Foundation give a speech about microfinance. We started talking and got to know each other. I worked for him for a year and helped start several programs.
 In 2001, I started the Acumen Fund, a nonprofit global venture fund. We manage more than $40 million in investments in Africa and Asia. We raise charitable funds and invest in and loan money to enterprises that provide services to low-income people. We use any financial returns to invest in other innovative projects to help the poor.
 For example, drip irrigation lets farmers raise production on drought-prone fields. In India, we invested in a company that reconfigured the technology for local farmers. To visit one, I flew from Mumbai to Aurangabad, took a three-hour bus ride, then walked a long time on dirt so dry it cracked. Finally I met a man growing lemon trees and eggplant. He was in his canvas house with his wife, who offered us a meal. Halfway through it, he said he wanted to show me something, and we walked to the concrete slab that was the foundation of the house they planned to build. He has dreams for the first time in his life.
 When I turned 44, I received an e-mail from the man who was my boyfriend when I was 16. He had seen my photo in a magazine. He told me that today I'm doing exactly what, at age 16, I said I'd be doing. I may not be doing exactly what I said, but I know I wanted to understand people from other nations and be a bridge between us. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE RAVID) CHART: JACQUELINE NOVOGRATZ: C.E.O., Acumen Fund, New York AGE: 48
 FAVORITE SINGER: Vusi Mahlasela of South Africa 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ADOPTION SERVICES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); ADOPTION (73%); MICROFINANCE (65%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) RWANDA (92%); VIET NAM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



604 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: How to Restore Sanity to Baseball's Economics? End the Draft

BYLINE: By DAN ROSENHECK. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Now that the uberagent Scott Boras has negotiated a record-breaking four-year, $15.1 million deal with the Washington Nationals for this year's top draft selection, Stephen Strasburg, he and Strasburg are being denounced for injecting unbridled greed into an otherwise idyllically egalitarian process.
 Coming from the owners, this is nothing new. As far back as 1876, the National League founder William Hulbert contended that ''it is ridiculous to pay ballplayers $2,000 a year, especially when the $800 boys often do just as well.'' 
 But what is surprising is that Strasburg's fellow players are also shilling for their employers. The Washington star Ryan Zimmerman recommended that Strasburg, a right-handed pitcher out of San Diego State, ask himself if he could sleep if he turned down millions.
 ''Do it like everyone else has already done it,'' Zimmerman said. ''I agree, he's one of the better college pitchers ever to pitch, but he hasn't proven anything yet.''
 Rob Dibble, a former reliever, went further.
 ''Kid, if you want respect, you have to earn it,'' Dibble said. ''If you want to be hated as much as your agent, Scott Boras, hold out.'' 
 Neither Zimmerman nor Dibble gave their employers a break when negotiating their contracts. But they had every reason to encourage Strasburg to take a lowball offer. Surely, they both know that Strasburg and his unproven lot are grossly underpaid -- and the money that should be theirs goes to veterans and owners.
 Labor relations over the major leagues' first century would have made Andrew Carnegie proud. From 1879 to 1976, the owners maintained a reserve clause enabling them to renew players' contracts for a year at the prior season's salary. This policy, sustained by a series of dubious court decisions, was often compared to slavery.
 In 1887, the Hall of Famer John Montgomery Ward wrote, ''Like a fugitive-slave law, the reserve-rule denies him a harbor or a livelihood, and carries him back, bound and shackled, to the club from which he attempted to escape.''
 Eighty-two years later, Curt Flood echoed that sentiment, writing, ''I do not feel I am a piece of property to be bought and sold irrespective of my wishes.''
 Each player sought to challenge the system -- Ward by founding an independent league, Flood by appealing to the Supreme Court. Neither succeeded.
 The reserve clause finally vanished in 1976, when an arbitrator instituted free agency. But rather than liberating all players, the union leader Marvin Miller struck a controversial deal: teams could still reserve players for a fixed number of major league seasons before they became free agents. In essence, Miller sold the union's newer and future members down the river to benefit its current ones.
 This bargain has distorted the game's economics. Minor leaguers and players with less than three years of service time remain pseudoslaves. A study by Erik Manning of Fangraphs.com found that the production of an average No. 1 draft pick during the 1990s was worth $51.5 million on the free-agent market, while the commissioner's recommendation for their bonuses is $3.6 million. As a result, clubs jealously hoard their prospects, often refusing to trade them even for superstars. The massive profits extracted from these players are divided among overpaid veterans and the owners.
 Defenders of the pact argue that players have to pay their dues before getting their just deserts. But that requires completing six healthy and successful years in the majors. The system did not work for Joe Magrane, who finished second in the N.L. in earned run average from 1986 to 1988, then hurt his elbow. 
 Nor did it help Marcus Giles, probably the game's best second baseman from 2003 to 2005, who was washed up by 28. Neither Magrane nor Giles ever cracked the top 200 in salary. The Vernon Wellses of the world would never get $126 million deals if there were no Magranes or Gileses to exploit.
 The real reason the anti-Boras rants pick up around draft time is that he is the only one in baseball campaigning to change the system. As a vehicle to promote competitive balance, the draft is severely flawed; small-market clubs routinely pass over top players because of their bonus demands. Its true purpose is to keep a lid on amateur salaries -- in other words, to allow tight-fisted corporate multimillionaires to steal money from teenagers.
 The alternative to the draft would be to grant all players from the United States the right to choose their employer from Day 1, a freedom enjoyed by their Latin American counterparts. This would not necessarily raise salaries over all but would distribute them more evenly, benefiting both the players (who would no longer have to fear career-ending injuries before free agency) and the game as a whole. 
 First, baseball would see some sanity restored to its trade market -- there would be far fewer untouchable prospects and immovable veterans. Second, the sport would have to replace the draft with a serious initiative to promote competitive balance.
 The best approach is probably an expansion and reform of the revenue sharing system, in which payments would correspond to factors like the population and median income of a team's market. This would remove the perverse incentive to lose created by the draft, and enable poorer clubs to compete with their richer counterparts for top amateur talent.
 Strasburg will have to settle for his $15.1 million-- which, while perhaps just 20 percent of what he would earn on the market, should still pay his bills if his arm falls off. Sadly, only a handful of elite pitching prospects in today's game enjoy the same luxury.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The No. 1 pick Stephen Strasburg with, from left, the team president, Stan Kasten
G.M. Mike Rizzo
 and the agent Scott Boras.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (74%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); APPEALS (67%); SLAVERY (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



605 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER REVIEW LONG ISLAND; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: A Joyous Sendup Bursting With Can-Do Spirit

BYLINE: By AILEEN JACOBSON

 BODY:
In the backstage musical ''Dames at Sea,'' the plucky actors move their show to a nearby battleship after their Broadway theater is demolished.
 If disaster should ever strike the Bay Street Theater, the cast could transfer to one of the many vessels docked a few yards away. Only in Sag Harbor, the ship would be a megayacht.
 Nearly anything nautical is apt at Bay Street, but ''Dames at Sea,'' a spoof of the Busby Berkeley-style movie musicals of the post-crash 1930s, is especially apropos in the current recession. 
 The show, which made its debut Off Broadway in 1968 (with Bernadette Peters as the ingenue), requires only six actors to create the illusion of a big-budget Broadway spectacle. It's an affordable pocket musical, with three musicians (under Rick Hip-Flores's lively direction) tucked away on Howard Jones's ingenious sets. 
 And Bay Street, which like most theaters is feeling a pinch, takes the musical's can-do message a step further. The costume designer, David Lawrence, explains in a program note that most of the clothes are borrowed from costume collections or Bay Street's own crew.
 Not for a moment, though, does this production look or sound like a ragtag stopgap. Ray Roderick, the director, infuses it with bubbly spirits, and Shea Sullivan's choreography adds a high gloss, particularly in ''Raining in My Heart,'' a sendup featuring yellow slickers and transparent umbrellas. Throughout, precision tap and show-off somersaults create infectious joy.
 Though Jim Wise's music recalls songs from various sources, the plot contrived by George Haimsohn and Robin Miller (the duo who wrote the book and lyrics) most closely follows ''42nd Street.'' In that 1933 movie, a small-town gal with a yen to dance stumbles upon an ailing musical about to open and, after its diva-star suffers a mishap, takes her place, to wild acclaim. Ditto for ''Dames at Sea.'' 
 The stage version of ''42nd Street,'' which came to Broadway in 1980 and is frequently revived, was directed earlier this year by Mr. Roderick at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., with the same actresses in the ingenue and diva roles. 
 Kristen Martin, who plays Ruby, the ingenue (a reference, with a wink, to Ruby Keeler, the star of the ''42nd Street'' movie), was the innocent Peggy Sawyer at Goodspeed. Ms. Martin, exuding an appealing sweetness, delivers her lines with deadpan drollness and displays a series of kicks, splits and handstands in Ruby's battleship debut that bespeaks a bright future. 
 As Mona Kent, the overbearing diva, Laurie Wells starts the show deftly with ''Wall Street'' and mines the comic depths of ''Beguine,'' in which Mona and a dashing ship's captain (Stuart Marland) reminisce about a steamy rendezvous in Pensacola, Fla. 
 Ruby's love interest, a young sailor-songwriter named Dick, is ably portrayed by Xavier Cano. Patrick Wetzel (another Goodspeed participant) plays Lucky, a sailor who is the longtime boyfriend of Joan, a brash chorus girl who becomes Ruby's pal. Joyce Chittick is splendid in the part.
 The ending? Just what you'd expect, with a song called ''Let's Have a Simple Wedding.'' In keeping with the production's inventiveness, it's anything but.
 ''Dames at Sea'' is at Bay Street Theater, on the Long Wharf, Sag Harbor, through Sept. 6. Information: baystreet.org or (631) 725-9500. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BATTLESHIP DEBUT: Six actors create the illusion of a big-budget show. Front, from left, Kristen Martin, Laurie Wells and Joyce Chittick. Rear, from left, Xavier Cano, Patrick Wetzel and Stuart Marland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY MARNAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSIC (89%); FILM (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); THEATER (58%); RECESSION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



606 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: Clown

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: DUNBAR, Pa. 

 BODY:
 IT is a ritual of summer: after the pig races and before the lion show, a lanky, 40-year-old man in lederhosen hoists onto his shoulders a plump, bespectacled girl in face paint, clambers atop a unicycle, pedals and then demands some loving, auf Deutsch, from his audience at the fairgrounds. 
 ''O.K., people, if you want to hear more, say 'Ja,' '' Michael Hilbig, the entertainer, instructed a crowd on a recent Saturday night at the Fayette County Fair here in southwestern Pennsylvania.
 So Bill Galbraith, a retired steelworker, and Gigi Patrignani, who works in lumber, and Gabrielle Springer and Sarah Scully, the tiara-wearing queen and princess of the fair, all obediently cried ''Ja!'' Mr. Hilbig next asked how many in the audience were fellow Germans, counted the few raised hands and muttered, ''Ach, well, I need more than 10 to take over the midway.'' And the joke, an aside really, sailed out over the crowd's heads, up past the funnel cakes, the antique tractors and the yo-yo ride into the sticky sweet Appalachian evening. 
 He calls himself Hilby, ''the skinny German juggle boy,'' and that is the first big wink at his audience, a signal that he will be poking fun at himself as well as at the conventions of his trade. In his act he juggles both words and objects, including, at one rivetingly absurd point, a bowling ball, a toilet plunger and a cordless hedge trimmer. 
 He maintains a fast-paced comic banter, gently mocking himself and his audience, especially its desire to see him fall or get hurt. (''Americans love accidents.'') He is highly skilled technically but does not mind dropping things because comedy, he believes, is more entertaining than precision (a view, he said, that his occasional all-German audiences do not share).
 Offstage Mr. Hilbig is an earnest, mellow, yoga-practicing father of two who lives in Ithaca, N.Y., with his girlfriend, a photographer who has two children. On official forms he lists his occupation as clown, and from Memorial Day to Labor Day every year he is one of hundreds of variety entertainers -- jugglers, magicians, hypnotists, mentalists, impressionists, Dadaists -- who travel the fair circuit, bringing, to borrow a German term, echt performance art to the land. 
 As Mr. Hilbig and others see it, the midway is the chief setting for what remains of vaudeville in this country. It is the principal platform for quirky noncelebrity performers, those who are not overly polished, produced, homogenized or, in some cases, talented. And with some 3,000 county, state and regional fairs, according to the International Association of Fairs and Expositions, these performers are at the front lines of populist arts and leisure, especially during tough economic times. 
 The 10-day Fayette County Fair, a tradition for 55 years, serves as ''the summer vacation for many families in our area, which has one of the highest poverty rates in the state,'' said William K. Jackson, president of the Fayette County Fair Board. Most fairgoers interviewed said that the annual fair was their sole exposure to professional live entertainment -- and, in the case of Mr. Hilbig, to anything Teutonic. ''It was just different because he was German,'' Ms. Springer, the queen of the fair, said of his act, ''and I've never met anybody German.''
 Raised in Wiesbaden and Berlin, Mr. Hilbig was 21 and studying to be a social worker when he left Germany to travel the Trans-Siberian Railway. He learned how to juggle from a Swede on a houseboat in the Ganges River and began busking during what turned into a couple of years in Asia. He never returned to Germany or to social work. Agile and silly and charming, he was a good entertainer, and he enjoyed the nonrooted, free-spirited life of a street performer.
 In 1993, after getting involved in a relationship with an American woman, Mr. Hilbig settled in Ithaca. Although he jokes in his shows about needing a green card -- ''I almost got one yesterday, but I was two minutes late on eBay'' -- he has been a legal permanent resident of the United States since shortly after his arrival. A chance audition for Busch Gardens Williamsburg led him from street performing into theme parks, which gave him a chance to polish his act and his persona. And before long he was getting steady work with festivals and fairs during the summer and cruises, resorts and private events for the rest of the year; having traveled to Antarctica 20 times, he concludes that juggling in the Drake Passage is a particular challenge.
 It was a cruise-ship waitress, calling him her juggle boy and then her skinny juggle boy and then her skinny German juggle boy, who gave him his handle. Mr. Hilbig's English is so thickly accented that he had to incorporate his Germanness into his act: ''If you can't hide it, paint it red,'' he said. 
 He used to wear a variety of clownish clothing but recently decided on ''lederhosen all the way all the time.'' He has one pair, which he bought in the Bavarian-theme town of Frankenmuth, Mich. He pairs them with a red gingham shirt, a very short necktie and a red Alpine hat, the overall effect being, well, better than a dirndl. (''My friends in Berlin, if they only knew,'' he said.)
 The heart of Mr. Hilbig's approach is to mount a charm offensive: ''If you're charming, you can knit a sweater onstage. You have to make the audience feel there's no other place you'd rather be than right here right now with you people.''
 In truth, that is not what Mr. Hilbig felt when he first arrived at the Fayette County Fair, a new booking secured by his agent. (Yes, clowns have agents too.) He found the setting dispiriting. His stage was strewn with litter and the small sign advertising his presence, ''The Herald-Standard presents Hilby the Skinny German Juggle Boy,'' hung above a trash can. 
 His dressing room was a storage closet, and there was no hospitality lounge as provided by high-end fairs, like the one in Dutchess County, N.Y., where he is scheduled to perform from Tuesday through Sunday. Worst of all he was situated beside the Big Cat Encounter Tiger Show, and ''there's really no way to compete with a 700-pound carnivore,'' he said on the day he arrived.
 Further, Mr. Hilbig worried that Fayette County was ''not exactly my demographic.'' His show works best, he said, in areas where Priuses outnumber pickup trucks. He likes to bait his audiences when they do not laugh by saying that his humor requires at least a high school education, but in Fayette County, where a quarter of the population over 25 does not have one, that would not be terribly funny.
 Gradually, however, the place grew on him. He found the livestock auction fascinating, the monster trucks impressive and the large Army recruiting station, in an area where unemployment is especially high, ''depressing but real.'' He admired the majesty of the lions and tigers and befriended their handler, Clayton Rosaire, a 10th-generation wild-animal trainer from Sarasota, Fla. 
 ''I'm intrigued by his family history,'' Mr. Hilbig said. ''I'm a first-generation skinny German juggle boy.''
 During the five days he worked the fair Mr. Hilbig drove his minivan from his motel to the fairgrounds each afternoon and changed into his lederhosen in the back of the fiddlers' hall. When the ''Pigs Gone Wild!'' race started blasting ''Sweet Home Alabama,'' he readied his own sound system and loosened up by chatting with early audience members. 
 Before one show the fair's queen and princess, in matching tie-dyed T-shirts, settled into the front row. ''By the way, girls, the next time you do laundry, you should really separate the colors from the whites,'' Mr. Hilbig called out to them. The girls laughed, adjusting their purple pageant sashes; they were itching to be selected as volunteers. 
 But alas for them, Mr. Hilbig chose instead a dimply young girl named Madison (''Is that your mom there, Madison, taking pictures for the insurance claim?''), a corrections officer from the town of Fairchance (''Wow, that must really stink being a prisoner in Fairchance'') and a burly, tattooed electrician (''Can I call you Papa Smurf?''). 
 As he balances swords atop knives in his teeth and mounts six-foot-tall unicycles, Mr. Hilbig especially likes to tease men. He prances around the stage and (during fire juggling) refers to himself as ''a flaming German.'' He squeezes men's muscles, blows them kisses and urges them to hug to the song ''Feelings'' -- although in Fayette County he never coaxed more than a handshake from his male volunteers.
 ''People used to ask me all the time if I'm gay,'' Mr. Hilbig said. ''What a weird question. So I try to blur the boundaries. The more uptight the guys are, the funnier it is.'' 
 Sometimes Mr. Hilbig's friends tell him he is ''so good he should be famous.'' But Mr. Hilbig, shrugging, said, ''Famous doesn't really exist in terms of juggling.'' He is content, he said, to be his own boss, to earn a decent living (''I do fine; I can buy organic vegetables'') and to savor the sweet moments when he electrifies an audience. Over the years he has developed a loyal following, and in Fayette County he added at least one particularly ardent fan: Mr. Galbraith, the retired steelworker, who attended 11 of his 15 performances, crying out ''Wow!'' and ''Ha ha ha!'' and ''Hot pants!'' (when Mr. Hilbig crouched over a flame).
 Episodically, Mr. Hilbig persuaded his audiences to sing a song from ''The Sound of Music,'' sending ragged choruses of ''doe a deer'' out over the midway. And in the end, despite his initial anxieties, he seemed to have won them over. Summing up an apparent consensus, Ms. Scully, the fair princess, said, ''The pigs are very popular, but I liked him better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Hilbig juggles both words and objects at county fairs: here, basketballs.(pg. AR1)
 Michael Hilbig who calls himself Hilby, above, recently decided on ''lederhosen all the way all the time.'' At the Fayette County Fair in Pennsylvania he performed for 11-year-old Elijah Harris, top, and handled flaming sticks, left. Next stop: Dutchess County.(pg. AR4)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROSS MANTLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); US LABOR DAY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



607 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THRUMPTON HALL: A Memoir of Life in My Father's House,by Miranda Seymour. (Harper Perennial, $14.99.) A Jacobean manor house in Nottinghamshire had an extraordinary hold on Seymour's father. This beautifully written portrait of a house-mad man, a kindly squire in the village but a bully and tyrant to his wife and children, is ''odd and oddly affecting,'' Charles McGrath said in the Book Review. Another difficult father appears in THE THREE OF US: A Family Story,by Julia Blackburn (Vintage, $16). ''Dear Daddy, I hate you,'' 6-year-old Julia wrote to her father, an alcoholic poet. After divorcing him, her mother -- a painter, narcissist and nymphomaniac -- raised her daughter in a sexualized atmosphere, with catastrophic results. Yet Blackburn emerged a responsible and productive adult who has managed, as this memoir attests, to forgive her awful parents. 
 TELEX FROM CUBA, by Rachel Kushner (Scribner, $16.) This ''multilayered and absorbing first novel,'' as our reviewer, Susann Cokal, described it, is set in 1950s Cuba. While American expats and international drifters attempt to bury pasts that include murder and adultery, Castro's men gather strength in the hills. The novel is a ''sweet-tart meditation on a vanished way of life and a failed attempt to make the world over in America's image,'' Cokal said. 
 PLAYING THE ENEMY: Nelson Mandela and the Game That Made a Nation, by John Carlin (Penguin, $16.) Nelson Mandela agreed to host the 1995 rugby World Cup games in South Africa to reassure the rugby-loving white minority he defeated in 1994 that they had a place in the new order. This ''wonderful book,'' as Bill Keller called it in the Book Review, shows Mandela the master politician wooing both whites and those blacks who had previously hated South Africa's segregated team, the Springboks. Carlin is ''an industrious reporter and gifted storyteller,'' Keller wrote. 
 ATTACHMENT, by Isabel Fonseca (Vintage, $15.) Midlife crises abound in this smart, confident first novel. Its protagonist, an American woman married to a glamorous Briton, experiences a sexual reawakening inspired by the romantic activities of both her daughter and of her husband, whom she suspects of having an affair. Aging parents and health concerns also appear. This is familiar territory, but Fonseca makes it fresh. 
 JULIA CHILD: A Life, by Laura Shapiro (Lipper/Penguin, $14.) This brief biography displays ''enormous grace and food savvy,'' our reviewer, Dorothy Kalins, said. Shapiro is especially good on Child's relationship with her husband, Paul, and on Child's relentless quest to find ''the very flavor of Frenchness.'' The book ''reminds us how Julia Child taught us not just how to cook but how to think about food,'' Kalins concluded. 
 READING THE OED: One Man, One Year, 21,730 Pages, by Ammon Shea (Perigee, $13.95.) ''I have read the O.E.D. so that you don't have to,'' Shea writes, and he works his way through the huge volumes, offering exotic word lists and a narrative of his project (''It is like trying to remember all the trees one sees through the window of a train''). Full disclosure: Last August, Shea and his girlfriend, a former lexicographer, beat a Book Review team in a game of Dictionary. 
 ALIVE IN NECROPOLIS, by Doug Dorst (Riverhead, $16.) A rookie cop patrols Colma, Calif., a city of cemeteries serving San Francisco, in this ''daring and bighearted first novel,'' as Mark Costello described it in the Book Review. The living characters are haunted by ghosts, some of them real. 
 THE EAVES OF HEAVEN: A Life in Three Wars,by Andrew X. Pham. (Three Rivers, $16.) In this well-written ''memoir,'' Pham tells the story of his father, which traces the arc of 20th-century Vietnamese history: youth in French colonial Hanoi, a move south, the American War, a postwar re-education camp, California. Philip P. Pan, a former Beijing bureau chief for The Washington Post, probes the dark side of China's economic growth in OUT OF MAO'S SHADOW: The Struggle for the Soul of a New China(Simon & Schuster, $16). Pan's portraits of the people he interviewed -- artists, peasants, workers -- combine ''first-rate reportage'' and ''the emotional depth of field of a novel,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote in The Times. 
 THE GLIMMER PALACE, by Beatrice Colin (Riverhead, $16.) An orphan born on New Year's Eve in 1899 becomes a celebrated film star during the heyday of the German movie industry in the 1920s, in a novel that revisits the cabaret era of Isherwood's ''Berlin Stories'' from a strikingly female perspective. 
 THE SISTER, by Poppy Adams (Anchor, $14.95.) In this literary suspense novel, two English sisters -- one a possibly insane lepidopterist -- wrestle with the secrets of their past when the other returns to the family home. 
 VITA NUOVA, by Magdalen Nabb (Soho, $13.) In the final Marshal Guarnaccia mystery -- Nabb died in Florence in 2007 -- the marshal's ''faith in the whole system'' is ''severely shaken'' by his observation of many kinds of human trafficking, condoned by public officials. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (68%); RUGBY (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); AGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



608 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Labor Day's Last-Minute Lures

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
FOR those who suffered through a summer of staycations, Labor Day is presenting plenty of tempting last-minute deals.
 The recession has led to a glut of hotel inventory this year, forcing prices down in many vacation destinations. That's making sales easy to find for a last-ditch summer fling. There are $24 rooms in downtown Las Vegas and $178 rates for new hotels in New York. Beach resorts from Hawaii to North Carolina are discounting. And there are still rooms at Grand Canyon park lodges. 
 Airfares have also dropped, especially to Florida beach resorts. Average fares to Orlando and Fort Lauderdale are down 18 percent to $222 and $208 respectively, according to Bing Travel, the new Microsoft search engine that uses the airfare tracking tools of Farecast. And a recent online search for flights from New York City, departing Thursday, Sept. 4, and returning the next Monday, turned up many round-trip fares for under $300, including Myrtle Beach, S.C., ($155) and Toronto ($287). 
 There's another incentive to fly somewhere this Labor Day: impending capacity cuts could push fares up this fall. ''Is Labor Day going to be the last hurrah?'' asked Genevieve Shaw Brown, senior editor at Travelocity.com. 
 Here is a roundup of some of the better deals. 
 Beach Vacations
 Bargains are easy to come by at traditional Labor Day beach resorts. 
 On a tight budget? The Red Roof Inn motel chain is offering a third night free with discount code 545474 on many already discounted beach destinations. For example, three nights at the Red Roof Inn, Wilmington, N.C., near expansive Wrightsville Beach comes to just $54.44 a night, when the deal is applied at checkout, or $39.99 a night at the Red Roof in Naples, Fla. 
 At the high end of the hotel spectrum, the Four Seasons Lanai at Manele Bay in Hawaii is offering four nights at the price of three; nightly rates begin at $295 over the Labor Day weekend. Similar deals are being offered at two Miami hotels: the Mandarin Oriental (where rates start at $299 for a skyline view) and the Setai (about $550 a night, roughly half of what it costs in high season). 
 Some of the best bargains can be found in Mexico, where hotels are still recovering from a sharp downturn in travel following swine flu outbreaks last spring. Hotel rates are down 22 percent in Cancun compared with last Labor Day weekend, according to Travelocity.com, and average airfare is down 26 percent.
 Keep in mind that hurricane season runs through mid-October. Consider travel insurance with hurricane coverage if you decide to snap up a deal in Mexico, Florida or other storm-prone regions.
 Urban Escapes
 While beaches and campgrounds are popular with Labor Day crowds, cities tend to empty out. Expedia, which is running a Labor Day Sale that includes 207 vacation packages, reports hotel rates are down between 13 and 25 percent in cities like Boston, San Francisco, Seattle and Vancouver. For example, Tourism Vancouver is listing a number of hotels with third-night-free deals including the Fairmont Waterfront from 249 Canadian dollars a night (about $222 at 1.12 Canadian dollars to the U.S. dollar). 
 Hotwire's Travel-Ticker.com has also pulled together a list of bargains including $74 a night for the King George Hotel in San Francisco, a more than 50 percent cut. And the new discount hotel site Getaroom.comis offering rates from $40 in Orlando, $67 in New Orleans and $99 in Washington. If you book two nights by Aug. 31 you receive a $25 rebate.
 Even in New York, not known for hotel bargains, deals abound because of falling demand and a surplus of new hotels. In fact, average room rates in the first full week of August dropped 27.6 percent compared with the same period last year, to $191.90, according to Smith Travel Research, which tracks the industry. This was the largest weekly decrease in 25 major markets the company researches.
 For example, the new Ace Hotel near the Flatiron District had rooms starting at $178, in a recent search on Quikbook.com, an online hotel discounter. Gild Hall near Wall Street was $180 a night, and the Maritime Hotel in Chelsea was $225. 
 In addition to cheaper hotels, visitors can expect less crowding at stores, more theater seats and more open tables at hot restaurants. In fact, restaurants in New York are so desperate for business that the city extended Restaurant Week -- which offers $24.07 three-course prix-fixe lunches and $35 three-course prix-fixe dinners at top-notch restaurants -- for an additional five weeks through Labor Day.
 Europe
 Flights to Europe are not the bargain that some have hoped for, but it's still cheaper these days. ''People suffer from flight fixation,'' said Ms. Shaw Brown of Travelocity. ''If you look at the vacation in total and consider the value you can get from the hotel, you might be surprised what you can afford.'' 
 Case in point: A weeklong Barcelona package on Travelocity, which includes the Expo Hotel Barcelona and round-trip airfare from New York, is $925 a person. The flight alone, however, is $609. 
 That rationale also works in reverse. Aer Lingus, for example, is offering five nights in Ireland, including a room at the Ritz-Carlton, Powerscourt, just south of Dublin, and round-trip airfare from New York, for $799 a person in September. The hotel alone typically starts at 200 euros ($288 at $1.45 to the euro) a night (or about 1,000 euros for five nights). 
 Globus, which specializes in guided group tours, is offering half off airfare on European river cruise vacations booked by Sept. 1. In a separate promotion, it is offering $100 off United and Lufthansa flights for European city vacations by Aug. 31. 
 Great Outdoors
 It's not too late to find a room at a national park either. Many families are already getting ready for school. 
 Though popular parks like Yellowstone and Zion are mostly sold out for Labor Day weekend, a recent search on Xanterra.com, an online reservation site for several national parks, showed openings at the Yavapai Lodge near the South Rim of the Grand Canyon for $107 a night, and the Furnace Creek Ranch in Death Valley from $124 a night.
 And in Alaska, where fall comes early, Denali Park Resorts is offering a two-night Colors of Denali package from $219 a night that includes a $50 gift card and 500 Alaska Airlines miles.
 But don't expect vacancies everywhere. All the lodges overlooking the South Rim of the Grand Canyon, including El Tovar and Bright Angel, have been sold out for weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Beaches in Florida and elsewhere are good deals this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGGIE STEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
As cities like New York empty, visitors can find discounts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
European packages (Budapest is shown) are often bargains. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BALINT PORNECZI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
There are still some rooms near the Grand Canyon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK HOSSMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); AIR FARES (90%); RESORTS (90%); BEACHES (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); TRAVEL INSURANCE (72%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (62%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (60%); INFLUENZA (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%); TRAVELOCITY.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



609 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Maya Vadiveloo, Stephen Atlas

 BODY:
Maya Katrina Vadiveloo and Stephen Andrew Atlas were married Friday at the Glover Mansion in Spokane, Wash. The bride's maternal grandfather, Robert F. Shambhalla, a Universal Life minister, officiated at the ceremony in which her maternal grandmother, Katherine J. Shambhalla, also a Universal Life minister, took part. 
 The bride and bridegroom met at Brown, from which they graduated, she magna cum laude. 
 Ms. Vadiveloo, 26, is keeping her name. She is a studying for a doctorate in nutrition at New York University. She received a master's in nutrition from Boston University
 She is the daughter of Teresa McCarthy-Vadiveloo of Spokane, and Jeyaraj Vadiveloo of Vernon, Conn. Her father is the head of insurance and financial services of the Hartford office of Watson Wyatt, the pension-plan and employee-benefits consultants. He is also the director of the Janet and Mark L. Goldenson Center for Actuarial Research at the University of Connecticut at Storrs. Her mother is a pediatric home-care nurse in Spokane with Maxim Healthcare Services. 
 Mr. Atlas, 26, is studying for a doctorate in marketing at Columbia. He received a master's in economics from Tufts. 
 He is the son of Barbara Atlas and S. Terry Atlas of Arlington, Va. His mother teaches English at the Luther Jackson Middle School in Falls Church, Va. Until last month, his father was a managing editor at U.S. News & World Report in Washington. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PORTRAIT BUG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); HEALTH CARE (67%); NURSES & NURSING (67%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (67%); MAXIM HEALTHCARE SERVICES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (55%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (75%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (69%) VIRGINIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



610 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Turn On, Tune In, Turn Back the Clock

BYLINE: By KAREN SCHOEMER

DATELINE: NEW LEBANON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 JAGAT PANDEY and his wife, Asha, owners of the Valley Rest Motel here, stood forlornly next to their garage. Although most of their property was well maintained -- neatly trimmed grass, freshly painted brick-red doors, newly gleaming paneling in the front office -- one wall looked atrocious. Paint peeled on the clapboard. The window was caked with grime. An overturned wagon lay haphazardly on the ground. 
 ''The garage, I had it nice,'' Mr. Pandey said. ''But they came and put old paint on there, made it rough looking.'' 
 The wall isn't just any wall; it's Ang Lee's wall. Last summer Mr. Lee filmed scenes from his latest film, ''Taking Woodstock,'' at the Valley Rest, transforming it into a run-down Catskills resort called El Monaco, which served as a base camp for the organizers of the Woodstock festival in 1969. The film crew let the grass grow long, strewed weeds and wildflowers, added mismatched multicolored paint to the room doors, even touched up trees in the yard to give them a mossy, overgrown feel. And they resurfaced the exterior of the Valley Rest with several layers of peeling, contrasting paint. After the shoot was finished, the crew just as fastidiously spruced the motel up again. But when it came to that last garage wall, Mr. Pandey put his foot down. He wanted a souvenir. 
 ''They wanted to paint this,'' he said. ''I said: 'Forget about it. I'll have somebody do it later.' '' 
 For five months in 2008 ''Taking Woodstock'' set up its own base camp in New Lebanon, and Mr. Lee and his crew made such an impression that townspeople will probably still talk about it 40 years later. Granted, the town needed excitement. On the Massachusetts border in Columbia County, about 140 miles north of New York City, New Lebanon was feeling the effects of the recession. Business in its handful of stores and cafes had slacked off. Tourism -- the place is a budget alternative to high-end towns in the nearby Berkshires -- had waned. New Lebanon doesn't even have a particularly cute main street: the two intersecting thoroughfares, Route 22 and Route 20, are broad, pokey streets dotted with strip malls, gas stations and musty secondhand shops. 
 But for Mr. Lee the town, along with other locations in the county, offered the perfect evocation of Woodstock-era low-key scenic beauty: twisting, forgotten byways that could be clogged with vintage traffic jams; lush, rolling fields and farms; dusty crossroad general stores. ''When we were building the set, people constantly stopped their cars and looked,'' Mr. Lee said. ''Some even drove their cars to see. One woman said: 'All the events are on the other side of the border, in Massachusetts. Finally we've got a cultural event here.' '' 
 ''Taking Woodstock,'' which opens Wednesday, is a stark change of pace for Mr. Lee, who won an Academy Award for ''Brokeback Mountain.'' It tells the story of Elliot Tiber (played by Demetri Martin), a semi-closeted New York City painter who returns to the Catskills in the summer of 1969 to help his crotchety Russian Jewish immigrant parents (Henry Goodman and Imelda Staunton) revive their fleabag motel. When the nearby town of Walkill pulls the plug on the Woodstock festival, Elliot steps in, bringing peace, mud, flower children, the cream of late-'60s rock 'n' roll and a dose of enlightenment to his parents' backyard. After the film had its premiere at Cannes in May, some American bloggers complained that it was too lightweight for a director known for brutally emotional stories like ''Brokeback Mountain,'' ''The Ice Storm'' and ''Lust, Caution.''
 But Mr. Lee's longtime creative partner, the producer and screenwriter James Schamus, said lightweight was the point. ''He'd made six very depressing movies in a row,'' Mr. Schamus said. ''I said: 'We're going to make a movie that is joyous. If you're not having fun every day making it, I quit.' '' Mr. Schamus, who is also the chief executive of Focus Features, secured a budget of around $30 million and instructed the famously detail-oriented director to stick to it. 
 ''I said: 'You're going to have to be modest. You can't make demands that stress people out,' '' he recalled. ''Usually he sweats out every single hire: the costume designer, production designer, director of photography. Is this person's style too operatic? Do they have the color palette? I said: 'I'm going to put three people in front of you for every major department head. You can look at their resumes, but I suggest you don't, because they're all at the top of their game. I only want you to hire the nicest person you meet.' ''
 Still, Mr. Lee was concerned about how the community would receive the production. ''We don't know what we're going to meet,'' he said. ''People might be troubled or inconvenienced. Sometimes they want to kick you out. But it was just wonderful. Nobody protested. Everybody wanted to help. The spirit of Woodstock was very much with us.'' 
 Mr. Schamus especially was intent on setting a good tone with the locals. He owns a weekend house in Columbia County. He recalled telling the crew: ''At the end of the shoot you get to go home, and I'm stuck here like some hostage in a Greek tragedy. If you do anything rude, if you do anything that makes people feel like they've been used, I get to go shopping with them for the next 30 years of my life.''
 But it appears that over the five months of the production a love affair sprang up between the locals and the crew. ''Wonderful people,'' said Sam Dawson, the 92-year-old owner of a farm that doubled for Max Yasgur's, the festival site. ''There wasn't a scrap left on the farm when they were done.'' 
 Sometimes a crew member would knock on the door and invite the family to meals. ''One morning they brought breakfast up,'' Mr. Dawson added. ''I was already eating.'' 
 Others marveled at the crew's efficiency. For Barbara Ferrari, who rented out Slattery's Country Store in East Chatham, to the filmmakers for a week, the experience was like one of those ''What if film crews ran the world?'' commercials. 
 ''We ran out of water the first day,'' she said. ''They said, 'We're going to bring Porta Potties in.' And I see these huge things coming in. They were like dressing rooms. They were the Cadillac of Porta Potties.'' 
 Michael DeBella, the burly, tattooed owner of the Hitchinpost Cafe in New Lebanon, gets misty just thinking about Mr. Lee and his crew. ''Without the movie, I doubt we would have made it through last winter,'' he said. ''That's how close to closing we were.'' Mr. DeBella started out washing pots and pans and eventually was drafted to produce catered meals and box lunches for the crew and extras. ''I put out, like, 3,000 lunches and never heard one complaint,'' he said. 
 The filmmakers' largess extended throughout the town: they hired local contractors and plumbers, rented a vacant office building and made donations to local churches and schools. 
 Mr. Lee's famed perfectionism was occasionally on display. Sandy Dawson, Mr. Dawson's daughter, was drafted as a cow wrangler, and Mr. Lee wanted her cows to pose just so. 
 ''Cows are cows,'' Ms. Dawson explained. ''In the morning they were very happy. Then after lunch it was hot, and cows like to lay down after lunch. We had to physically push them to stand there. They wanted them by this post or that post. And Morgan, he's a big steer; after a while he was rolling his eyes, like: 'I'm not doing this anymore. I don't want to be a movie star, I'm done.' '' 
 Mr. Pandey and his wife had been on the verge of tearing down the Valley Rest. Mr. Pandey, a former engineer for General Electric, had bought the motel in 1990 for his wife to manage. But business had dropped off by 2007, and they were ready to retire. Two weeks before demolition was scheduled to begin, they returned from a visit to India to find their cellphone clogged with desperate messages from the crew. Mr. Lee won them over: they'll leave it standing. 
 A few weeks ago Mr. Lee headed, so to speak, back to the garden. He and Mr. Schamus returned to Columbia County for a ''people's screening'' of ''Taking Woodstock'' at the Crandell Theater, a slightly decayed 1926 movie palace in downtown Chatham. A flimsy red carpet decorated the sidewalk. A lone news van from a local cable channel parked across the street, and police officers in spotless uniforms cast a leisurely eye on the proceedings. Locals sported themewear like tie-dyed and tiered skirts, and an aging hippieish woman with flowing gray hair serenaded the crowd with folks songs on an acoustic guitar. 
 Inside, as the film was about to begin, Mr. Lee stepped forward. The roar of appreciation might have been heard all the way to Manhattan. He tried to make a speech thanking the crowd, but his microphone kept feeding back. Finally he just said, ''This is a real-life Woodstock for me.'' 
 Afterward the crowd adjourned to a party down the street, where a big white tent stretched over the village green. The Dawsons and the Pandeys sat together, eating hot dogs and chili. Mr. Schamus's wife, Nancy Kricorian, suitably dressed in a jean jacket, couldn't get over the change in atmosphere from the New York premiere the night before. ''Where's the security?'' she asked, noting that nobody was guarding the tent entrances. 
 Mr. Lee posed for photographs with his arms around the Pandeys. Later Mr. Pandey was asked how his motel looked in the movie. ''Terrible!'' he said, beaming. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the movie ''Taking Woodstock'' misspelled the name of a New York town that rejected the festival. It is Wallkill, not Walkill.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demetri Martin, above, stars in ''Taking Woodstock.'' Ang Lee, left, the film's director, attended a screening last month in Chatham, N.Y.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN REGAN/FOCUS FEATURES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES, FOR FOCUS FEATURES)(pg. AR9)
 Emile Hirsch in Ang Lee's ''Taking Woodstock,'' set at and around the site of the Woodstock festival in 1969.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN REGAN/FOCUS FEATURES)(pg. AR18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); MOUNTAINS (78%); GAS STATIONS (73%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (62%); CITIES (62%); RETAILERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: ASHA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Taking Woodstock (Movie); Taking Woodstock (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



611 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BETH COURT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4632 words

HEADLINE: A Cul-de-Sac of Lost Dreams, and New Ones

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: MORENO VALLEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
The rose bushes are back in bloom on Beth Court, but the lawns on the block remain parched and browning, reminders of the absent families who once tended to them.
 On a recent evening, a new homeowner lugged two large shopping bags from Home Depot across his front yard, where his young daughter danced a mad jig in her pajamas. Across the street, another group of newcomers -- an extended family that had cobbled together enough cash for a down payment -- began the long slog of cleaning out the garage. 
 From her porch in the middle of the block, one of the street's last original residents took in the action with a mix of relief and melancholy. She was happy to see the sale sign finally gone from next door, but absorbed its significance, too; the close friend who had lost the house to foreclosure would certainly never be back. 
 For a few precious weeks this summer, all eight houses on this cul-de-sac about 60 miles east of Los Angeles were occupied, but the housing bust that has come to define the landscape and economy of Southern California -- and much of the country -- has fundamentally changed the block. 
 ''We had the perfect little cul-de-sac back here, our own little world,'' said Eloisa Sanchez, the woman on the porch. ''We're afraid of what's coming.'' 
 Since January, The New York Times has made regular visits to the fraying neighborhood to chronicle -- in print, photographs and video -- how, in one small place, the foreclosure crisis has reshaped the view of homeownership as a cornerstone of the American dream. The continuing economic fallout has brought a reckoning for those who believed that home equity would always rise, financing lives beyond their means, while also creating unexpected opportunities for people previously on the sidelines of homeownership.
 Over the last two years, half of Beth Court has been in foreclosure, and homes whose owners took out thousands of dollars in equity during the bonanza years are now worth less than half the price paid for them.
 In one house, the owner took in extended family members as tenants to help make the mortgage payments. At another, a stay-at-home mother went to work for the first time, leaving her children with the television. After selling his house to an investor at a large loss, a father of five prays daily that his family can remain as renters. Elsewhere on the block, belongings have been sold, marriages have been strained, and everyone worries daily about who will come to live next door.
 Nearly every family has been hit with pink slips. Most who have managed to stay are barely squeaking by, waiting for eviction by the bank or sitting in homes whose values have fallen too low to sell, their dreams of moving stymied. 
 And now, as most of the empty houses have filled up, long-term residents face contiguity with strangers, who have seized the moment to buy into a neighborhood that just two years ago was beyond their means.
 A carpet cleaner who had moved from a small apartment near Los Angeles was brought to tears the first time he cleaned the rugs in his new four-bedroom home. A maintenance worker at a bakery who had waited two years for the bank to accept his offer on a foreclosed home now spends weekends proudly building an addition. A multigenerational family arrived in Beth Court from a mobile home.
 But the newcomers have arrived with different ways. One started a petition against the ice cream truck because of the noise. Another waved away a longtime resident coming to welcome the new family. So far, not one has joined the neighborhood watch association. 
 The blockwide birthday parties, neighborly fence-building and Friday chitchat sessions at dusk have become fragile antiques of the preforeclosure days as the new neighbors keep to themselves and the old-timers struggle to keep their footing. The street is staggering toward recovery, but for every step forward, there are three back.
 Ted Hanson, 71, who lives with his wife, Connie, at the entrance to Beth Court, on adjoining Parkland Avenue, views the changes in the neighborhood through three basic prisms: falling home values, growing safety concerns and blighted lawns. 
 ''I feel very sad, and I'm a little nervous, frankly,'' said Mr. Hanson, who serves as president of the neighborhood watch association and whose home, lawn and personal appearance can be summed up in one word: neat.
 Mr. Hanson has no truck with those who do not mow their lawn, keep their music down or clean their cars regularly, and he is widely recognized as the mayor of the block. While not the sort for gossip, he does try to keep a sense of order. He also pumps bicycle tires for children, employs them to watch his pets, picks up litter and investigates doings in unfamiliar cars. 
 ''It breaks my heart to see what is happening here,'' he said. 
 Riding the Housing Wave
 Beth Court rose from desert scrub in the city of Moreno Valley during the development boom that spilled over from Los Angeles a dozen years ago, its tidy tile-roofed homes, each roughly 1,800 square feet, arranged in a horseshoe pattern behind leafy trees and palms.
 For many years, it was a place where kids rode bikes in the street, Sundays were set aside for carne asada, and the fathers left early to work in nearby cities, leaving the block quiet but for the desultory cat in pursuit of a roadrunner from the nearby hills.
 Thanks in part to cheap lots and low housing prices, the area exploded with residential development in the 1980s, following the path of the San Fernando and San Gabriel Valleys in decades past. 
 Throughout the Inland Empire -- which includes much of Riverside and San Bernardino Counties between Los Angeles and California's border with Arizona and Nevada -- communities rose from dirt piles and orange groves, creating jobs and neighborhoods filled with people priced out of Los Angeles and Orange Counties, or looking to escape louder, less-safe cities. 
 But a region that thrived almost solely on development has fallen mightily. Building permits for properties valued at a record $12.5 billion were issued in Riverside and San Bernardino Counties in 2005; in 2008, the figure was $3.8 billion, according to John Husing, an economist whose expertise is Southern California. 
 ''You have to think of it like a gold-mining town in a Clint Eastwood movie,'' Mr. Husing said. ''Money comes to a place where there has never been any, and next there are tool stores, a saloon, a general store and so on. But the saloon doesn't exist without the gold mine, and the gold mine here was construction.''
 For three decades of relatively good times, Moreno Valley, the second-largest city in Riverside County, represented escape. The city's first population boom came in the 1980s, fueled by newcomers who pushed prices up. Its first economic bust arrived in the early 1990s, through a combination of a statewide recession and the deactivation of a nearby Air Force base. 
 But as always in California, boom times came again. During the 1990s, Moreno Valley became one of the fastest-growing cities in America, and it now has 190,000 residents. Now Moreno Valley, and Beth Court, can be seen as microcosms of life in much of Riverside County, where the unemployment rate -- 14 percent in July -- and the foreclosure numbers have replaced growth rates as among the highest in the nation. In Moreno Valley, 76 percent of sales from July 2008 through July 2009 involved foreclosed houses, according to the research firm MDA DataQuick. 
 Friendly and Affordable
 Olga Hernandez was the first to arrive on Beth Court. It was 1997, and she was moving out of her mother's home in Riverside, about 15 miles to the west, with her three children. Ms. Hernandez and the man she calls her husband, although they were never legally married, bought a house on the corner, one of only four on the block at the time.
 With its relative quiet, nice-size backyards and lovely views of a sun pinking the sky behind Box Springs Mountain, Beth Court was alluring to families.
 ''We looked around,'' said Ms. Hernandez, a cheerful woman whose expansive manner defies her diminutive height. At $119,000 for four bedrooms, ''it was a really good price.''
 A few months later came Phil Winkler and his wife, Eloisa Sanchez, pregnant with the first of two daughters. At first, Ms. Hernandez kept her distance from her new neighbors.
 ''I'm an indoor person, but she kept bugging me,'' she said of Ms. Sanchez. ''We starting talking, and my daughter would come over to play.''
 Soon the two women were best friends. They watched each other's children, shared coffee and barbecued in the front yards (one summer day, an errant grill rolled down the street, but not a piece of meat was lost).
 ''We all clicked,'' said Ms. Sanchez, 37. ''If I couldn't pick up my kids, I would call one of the neighbors, and they would do it for me. You don't just do that with anybody.''
 Development picked up, with new homes rising from dirt ponds once filled with frogs. In 1998, Ralph Godfrey and his wife, Jackie Saldamando, schoolteachers and California natives who returned from several years in Nebraska, arrived on a broiling hot August afternoon. Ms. Sanchez met them at the door with a Diet Coke as they hauled boxes off their truck. 
 The years rolled on, more houses were built, and new neighbors filled in Beth Court and Parkland Avenue next to it, many of them first-time homeowners lugging small children and great expectations. Jobs were plentiful, newcomers borrowed most if not all of what it cost to buy their homes, and mortgage payments were made on time.
 Adrian Blanco and his wife, both Mexican immigrants, gave up their apartment in Orange County and settled into a house that he never had time to fully furnish, between his electrician's job and English classes. 
 ''I love my house,'' Mr. Blanco said. ''It has always made me feel good.''
 Yadira Burgueno came with her husband, Gilberto Ramirez, a machine operator, the cheaper housing prices overcoming her reluctance to leave Alhambra, a Los Angeles suburb. Eladio Soto, a landscaper, also priced out and ready to own, left his apartment in Orange County. 
 ''This place has been good for my kids,'' Mr. Soto said. ''Here we have fewer drugs, fewer gangs, fewer problems. For me, I came from Mexico in 1989, and I came from the bottom. So this has been the greatest gift for me.'' 
 Of course, it has not always been perfect. There was a couple from South Los Angeles whose children played loud music late at night -- one resident blasted country music from his window in response -- and who frequently sparred with the neighbors.
 ''That was a little hard,'' Mr. Soto said. ''We had to call the police a few times.''
 As prices rose across Southern California, they rose on Beth Court, too. Houses that went for under $200,000 just a few years earlier began to sell for $250,000 and higher. 
 An older man who bought the house at 11055 Beth Court for $132,500 in 1997 sold it in 2002 for $160,000. The next year, the new owners sold it to Mr. Soto for $230,000.
 In retrospect, when examined through a pile of spreadsheets, the inflated pricing seems slightly insane. But at the time, Mr. Soto said, he was certain he was getting a deal.
 Living Large (Too Large)
 Equity soon became irresistible.
 Ms. Sanchez and Mr. Winkler, the couple with two daughters, wanted a new car. So they pulled $15,000 out of the house. Mr. Godfrey and Ms. Saldamando, the schoolteachers, dipped into their equity to landscape their back yard. Mr. Blanco, the electrician, used it to invest in a lot in the desert, and Mr. Soto, the landscaper, picked up a rental home in the Central Valley, an agricultural area northwest of here. 
 The block's first residents, Ms Hernandez and her husband, bought a shiny commercial truck, with dreams of expanding his trucking business. He pulled money out of the house nearly annually. And the couple from South Los Angeles used their house -- bought for $152,500 in 1997 -- as a veritable cash machine, refinancing three times before selling it in 2006 for $440,000. 
 But one by one, the strings began to come apart.
 The new buyer of the Los Angeles couple's home was quickly in over his head; he lost the house in less than a year, with $375,273 still owed.
 Title records show that Ms. Hernandez and her husband bought their home in 1997 for $123,000, using nearly 100 percent borrowed money. They refinanced first in 2003, at 11.1 percent interest on $129,000. The equity loans kept coming: the balance rose to $230,000 in 2004; $323,00 in 2005; $374,000 in 2006; then, finally, $415,000, at 8.12 percent, in 2007.
 ''For a while things were going really, really good,'' Ms. Hernandez said. ''Then the truck broke down, and things went down from there. One day I came home and there was a note on the door that said call this number.''
 It was only then, Ms. Hernandez said, that her husband told her about the equity loans and that ''we were in foreclosure and needed to get out.'' Last fall, the bank offered them $1,000 to leave the house quietly.
 ''I was a nervous wreck,'' she said, her shoulders tensing with the memory. She tried to shield her children, ages 18, 16 and 14, from the news. ''I would pray every night and drive around every day looking for something new.''
 Moving day came in October, and friends on the block stood by as Ms. Hernandez carefully pulled the last bags out of the house and cleaned up -- her home was known for being spotless -- before moving to a rental house a few miles away. 
 ''I mopped, I swept, I wiped down the counters,'' Ms. Hernandez said. ''It was my home. I was still proud of it.''
 Ms. Hernandez's struggles quickly reverberated around Beth Court. If the block's longest-term residents could lose their home, who might be next?
 ''I thought, 'Oh my God, her husband is always working,' '' said Mr. Blanco, now unemployed. ''I felt scared. I figured he's working and I'm not working, so maybe we're going to lose our house, too.'' 
 From Bad to Worse
 As the housing meltdown picked up, job losses swept the neighborhood like an unstoppable illness. 
 First Mr. Winkler, the father of two, was laid off from his job at a bottle manufacturing company. Mr. Soto came next, as landscaping work dried up. Then Mr. Blanco hurt his back, and that was the end of his electrician career. He has struggled to find work since. 
 Mr. Winkler said he ''went from seeing men go to work every day to seeing three of the men on this little cul-de-sac home like me.''
 Suddenly, it was dads at school pickup, dropping off at band practice, supervising homework, taking the call when a child mouthed off at school -- dads in charge and moms at work. And on the weekends, with money tight, the block was full of neighbors washing cars, cleaning garages or just sitting quietly. 
 ''We used to go out to eat,'' Mr. Blanco said. ''But no more. I make it all at home. I used to go to Arizona, to Vegas, to San Francisco to visit friends. No more. I miss those times, but more, I miss my time with my wife.'' 
 While Mr. Blanco stays home, his wife has picked up work at a local college, even on weekends. ''In all of this, that is what I miss the most,'' he said.
 Mr. Ramirez, the machine operator, lost his job when the company moved to New York, and he resorted to buying cars at auction, fixing them up and reselling them in Tijuana. But after he fell behind on the mortgage payments, he lost his house in July.
 This past year, his wife, Ms. Burgueno, who had stayed home with their two children running a modest catalog business, took a job in a mall. With her husband often on the road, she would leave her 17-year-old daughter to care for her 5-year-old daughter, knowing the neighbors would keep an eye out, as she drove off to work, blowing kisses as her girls waved from the window. 
 The tumult and financial stress has strained her relationship with her husband, Ms. Burgueno said.
 ''All my work is enough for my kids and food, and that's it,'' said Ms. Burgueno, who began crying while talking about the turn their lives had taken. Indeed, the few conversations she agreed to have with a reporter began and ended in tears.
 ''I'd like to go to school again, maybe be an interpreter or a dental assistant,'' she said. ''I pay for health insurance now because I don't like those little clinics.''
 Others on the block in financial trouble have tried different ways out. Mr. Soto, the landscaper, put his house up for short sale -- meaning it was sold for less than he owed on the mortgage -- figuring he would pay less in rent than his current mortgage payment.
 Mr. Blanco, the electrician, took in two pairs of married cousins, but it did not go well. The cousins did laundry during the day, in spite of his constant reminders that it was expensive because the utility rates were higher. And they meddled in his wife's kitchen. 
 ''You know, no one takes care of your own house as you do,'' Mr. Blanco said. ''They made a lot of mess. They use the shoe in the house. Again my wife would say, 'You see that!' because we take our shoes off. I tried to let it go. They are not used to taking off their shoes, I guess. And now the carpet is bad, and I have to take it out. 
 ''But you have to keep quiet. You need the money.''
 Mr. Godfrey and Ms. Saldamando, the teachers, have been weighing their options since she got a pink slip in the spring. Ms. Saldamando has come to look differently at the house she once treasured, in a neighborhood she liked for its diversity and calm. 
 They picked the house because it was not too far from their horse stable in rural Norco, Calif. Now, she said, she would take the horses over the house.
 ''I work to pay for my horses; that is my life,'' said Ms. Saldamando, standing in her mud-stained riding gear after a morning at the barn. ''I'd rather be happy, and I'm sorry, but my house is where I sleep. It's not my happiness.''
 Difficult Transitions
 Ask people on Beth Court what they want in a neighbor, and the answer is not complicated. They should be quiet, keep up the lawn, not block driveways and give the police a call if someone unusual is roaming the block at night. 
 But like everything that involves close proximity to others, things have gotten more difficult than that.
 While friends waving goodbye from moving vans have represented the broken dreams of the foreclosure crisis here, they have also spelled first-time opportunities. 
 This year, in 14 ZIP codes in Southern California, including Moreno Valley's, median home prices have fallen below 1989 levels, making places like Beth Court affordable for the first time to many new homeowners.
 Their influx has brought complex crosscurrents of envy and gratitude -- the sincere hope of established residents that the newcomers will fit in, accompanied by the gnawing suspicion that they are not unlike magpies.
 For Gaston and Natalie Giuliani, immigrants from Argentina, a home in the center of the block on Beth Court was the realization of long-held dreams and months of negotiations. They were the first family to buy a foreclosed home in the recent crisis, and everyone on the block watched carefully.
 The Giulianis began eyeballing the house as soon as the owner went belly up with the mortgage. In 2007, they made several offers, each rebuffed by the bank. But their broker would tell them the house remained empty, and so they would come back.
 ''We started to believe God has closed the doors for us,'' said Ms. Giuliani, who has three children under 5. 
 Finally, they made their lowest offer -- $240,000 -- and in May 2008, the bank bit. In most respects, the transition has gone well, Ms. Giuliani said. Her husband, who works maintenance at a bakery, is one of the few residents on the block with a full-time job, and his expansions to their home -- done at a time when neighbors have been stuck with unfinished patios -- reflect that. 
 Things are friendly enough, though, as some old-timers acknowledge, something short of tender.
 ''The thing is, when people are new on the block, they start thinking they can make the rules,'' said Mr. Soto, the landscaper, motioning toward the Giuliani house. ''They wanted a petition against the ice cream truck, because her kids take a nap when he comes and he is loud. But for me, I see that they just don't like ice cream.''
 Nor have the Giulianis taken advantage of Mr. Soto's role as Beth Court's unofficial handyman, and it sort of frosts him.
 ''I told them, 'I am your neighbor, I am here to help,' but apparently they like to do everything on their own,'' he said. And he is not happy about Mr. Giuliani's habit of parking on the street so that it blocks the sanitation trucks. 
 ''I've told him many times,'' Mr. Soto said. (Mr. Giuliani declined to be interviewed.) ''I think everything is going to be fine with them as long as we all keep a little distance.'' 
 Ms. Giuliani said that she indeed found the ice cream truck, which often comes through the area three times a day, an annoyance. ''I'm not used to hearing those kinds of noises,'' said Ms. Giuliani, who said she immigrated with her husband from Argentina in 2000. 
 She said she saw herself as a bit of an outsider on the street.
 Most of the residents were born in America or Mexico, and she was not, she pointed out, and she feels that it accounts for a bit of a divide. As Seventh-day Adventists, her family is in church on Saturday, when most everyone else is socializing on the block.
 ''You like to be in a neighborhood where nobody bothers you, but at the same time you like to be friends with them,'' she said. ''I like to come out and have conversations in the yard, and I don't have that here. I don't really know what's going on with the families here. Their kids never play with my kids.''
 The cool relations between the Giulianis and others on the block has led to suspicions now and again, sometimes unfounded ones. Word on the street was that Ms. Giuliani had called the county to report that Mr. Ramirez had cars lining the street, that he was running an auto shop business.
 ''I didn't get this house that I paid a lot of money for to be next to a mechanic,'' Ms. Giuliani said. ''But I'm not going to complain.''
 In fact, it was Mr. Hanson, the de facto block mayor who does not brook even a hint of lawbreaking on Beth Court, who made the call. Mr. Ramirez, he said, ''was spraying fumes in his garage.''
 Two other families have arrived since the Giulianis.
 The smallest house on the block, which was valued in 2005 at $378,000, and foreclosed in 2008 at $196,800, was bought for $148,000 by the Schneiders, the multigenerational family that pooled its resources.
 Almost the same week, the house on the western corner -- the first on the block to be occupied in 1997 -- was sold after seven months on the market. The buyer, Daniel Cortez, was the first on the block to buy using a Federal Housing Administration loan, which offers low-interest credit to the working poor.
 Mr. Cortez, the carpet cleaner, never thought he could afford his own home -- the four-bedroom is a castle compared with the tiny one-bedroom home he rented in El Monte, a rough area closer to Los Angeles.
 His voice choking a little, Mr. Cortez described how it felt to clean his own carpet for the first time. 
 ''It was really nice,'' he said in Spanish as Ms. Sanchez, his next door neighbor with the two daughters, translated. 
 He added: ''My daughter wants to play outside, but she said, 'I don't have any friends here.' '' 
 She soon will, Ms. Sanchez explained to him. She told him that her best friend, Ms. Hernandez, used to live in his house, and as Mr. Cortez nodded sympathetically, Ms. Sanchez explained how she had lost it. 
 ''Welcome, and congrats on your house,'' she said in Spanish as she made her way home.
 ''I feel happy for him,'' Ms. Sanchez said later. 
 One person who is not happy is Ms. Hernandez, who still visits her best friend and her former neighborhood.
 ''She told me she just hated to see the new people at her house,'' Ms. Sanchez wrote in a recent e-mail message.
 Lessons Learned
 As the foreclosure crisis continues to touch Beth Court, there are those who feel blessed for what is left and for what has been learned, others who feel victimized and bitter, and those who feel that they failed the system and vice versa, but who also believe that misfortune is transitory. 
 The newcomers -- the Schneiders, the Cortezes and the Giulianis -- have sympathy for those who lost their homes, but feel they have been rewarded for saving, waiting and buying in a conventional manner. The falling home prices were ''the answer to our prayers,'' Ms. Giuliani said. ''We would not have been able to get a house this size elsewhere.''
 The latest to leave -- Ms. Burgueno and her husband, Mr. Ramirez, who fixed cars for sale in Mexico -- packed up in July after the bank gave them $1,500 to leave by the end of the month. As she gathered the last of her belongings, Ms. Burgueno asked the oldest Winkler daughter to sit with her in the repossessed home because its near emptiness gave her the heebie-jeebies. 
 ''I have learned that you can't trust anyone but God,'' Ms. Burgueno said. ''Nothing falls from the sky.''
 Her eyes hardened with hurt when she talked about her home while standing on the steps of the courthouse in nearby Corona, where the house was to be auctioned by the bank. 
 ''I think a lot of these investors are taking advantage of people's problems out here,'' Ms. Burgueno said. ''I heard about a guy who bought like eight houses out here for $80,000. To me, it isn't right.''
 Ms. Sanchez and Mr. Winkler, the couple with two daughters, dream of moving on someday, but know there is no chance for that now. It has been a humbling time, an object lesson with a high cost. ''In the long run, I think the people might have actually learned something,'' Mr. Winkler said on Memorial Day over a hamburger cooked on the grill. ''This might be a good thing.'' 
 Mr. Blanco, the unemployed electrician, remains a picture of nervous cheer. He has had time to learn English, to think about a new career. He is studying cooking, and all the physical therapy for his injured back has made him extremely fit. He spends his free time studying, or blasting Michael McDonald on the stereo while frenetically cleaning the house he is not sure will remain his.
 When he begged the bank for a loan modification that he appeared to qualify for under the latest plan passed by Congress, he was rebuffed. Now that he has stopped making mortgage payments, he said, the bank is calling him back, looking to do business again.
 As for the cousins taken in as boarders, they are out. ''Things are now going to be O.K. with my wife,'' he said. ''My dad told me a long time ago, 'Try to do what the wife wants, and you will be happy.' '' 
 Mr. Soto, the landscaper, has found work again, but it is too late to save his house. He sold it at a huge loss and now rents it back. His trucks are gone -- one to repossession, another impounded for improper tags. But he celebrated his oldest child's 15th birthday -- her quinceanera -- with the help of friends and family. He has never stopped relying on neighbors, and like others on the block, he says he got something spiritual out of the experience. 
 ''When we have just the nice cars and the material stuff, we forget to take in consideration about how people still need food,'' he said. ''I'm going to lose my house, I'm going to lose my truck. But now I have seen life from the bottom, and I really thank God for that.''
 Articles in this series explore how a block of eight homes in Moreno Valley, Calif., about 60 miles from Los Angeles, has been reshaped by the housing bust and recession. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Families on a street in Moreno Valley, Calif., held a yard sale this spring, some to clean out the garage, others to raise cash.
BETH COURT: Loss and Opportunity, Side by Side (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Remnants of an eviction this summer on Beth Court. The neighborhood has undergone a difficult transition(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20)
BETH COURT: LOSS AND OPPORTUNITY, SIDE BY SIDE: Daniela Cortez, 4, outside her family's new home on Beth Court. Many families have lost homes, while others have had an unexpected chance to own. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) GRAPHIC: One Block's Losses: Half of the eight homes on Beth Court in Moreno Valley, Calif., have been foreclosed in the last two years, and several other owners are barely hanging on. (GRAPHIC BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PANORAMIC PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA AND GABRIEL DANCE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH FROM PICTOMETRY INTERNATIONAL)
 MAP: High Turnover: A majority of houses sold in Moreno Valley, Calif., in the last year have been owned by banks.(Source: MDA DataQuick)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (89%); FAMILY (89%); EVICTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



612 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ONLINE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 28 words

 BODY:
SLIDE SHOW A feud with economic underpinnings erupts on a small island off the coast of Maine, where lobstering is virtually the only livelihood. 
 nytimes.com/national 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



613 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: SKY BLUE F.C. 1, SOL 0: Last Laugh And Trophy Are Prizes For Sky Blue

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

DATELINE: CARSON, Calif. 

 BODY:
Gathering atop a platform at midfield, the Sky Blue F.C. players wrapped their arms around one another and wore the same smiles they had worn all season whenever something -- or was it everything -- had gone wrong.
 They spent the first half of the inaugural season of Women's Professional Soccer in last place, went through three head coaches and played three games in three time zones in the last eight days. 
But the smiles they wore Saturday were not of incredulity, they were of champions.
 With a 1-0 victory over the Los Angeles Sol, delivered by an early goal by Heather O'Reilly, a back line led by the defender-coach Christie Rampone and a red card to Sol defender Allison Falk, Sky Blue turned its ridiculous season sublime.
 ''It's very surreal,'' O'Reilly said. After New Jersey-based Sky Blue's previous two playoff wins, in Washington and in St. Louis, she said, ''we were almost laughing -- the irony of the entire story was just incredible. It has not sunk in yet, that's for sure.''
 The W.P.S. could use a compelling story line as it struggles to establish a foothold during a deep recession with a sport that has been unable to build on the success of the Women's World Cup held in the United States a decade ago.
 An announced crowd of 7,218 watched the game at the Home Depot Center, half of which was closed off. The crowd was less than half as large as the one the Sol, which features the Brazilian star Marta, drew for its season-opening match, and it often saved its biggest cheers for the T-shirts that were tossed into the crowd.
 Commissioner Tonya Antonucci preferred to focus on the field rather than the stands. Though every club lost money in the league's first season, she said the W.P.S. was able to introduce itself as a league that showcased many of the world's best players.
 ''From a business standpoint, we can say we're real, we're here,'' Antonucci said. ''It's a tangible product now.''
 The product itself was intriguing. The Sol, with Marta and the United States national team midfielder Shannon Boxx, was a heavy favorite. It was rested and had gone 2-0-1 in three regular-season games against Sky Blue. 
 But for most of a sunny, humid afternoon, it was Sky Blue, supposedly on fumes, that looked fresh. It maintained possession, which served several purposes: keeping the ball away from Marta, conserving energy and creating scoring chances.
 Sky Blue converted one in the 16th minute, when Keely Dowling's cross after a throw-in reached Natasha Kai near the penalty spot. She was able to flick the ball to the far post for O'Reilly, whose shot beat goalkeeper Karina LeBlanc.
 Eleven minutes later, the task of rallying became more difficult for the Sol. Kai received a pass on the left side in her own half, spun past Falk and took off on a 60-yard run. Falk knocked her down from behind at the edge of the Sol's penalty area, and the referee Kari Seitz, contending that Falk was the last defender, showed her a red card. That left the Sol to play the final 63 minutes with 10 players.
 ''The Sol is a great team, but I think the intangibles really showed,'' O'Reilly said.
 Nowhere were they more present than in Sky Blue's back line, which was anchored by Rampone and included the outside backs Dowling and Megan Schnur and center back Jen Buczkowski -- a converted midfielder who replaced Anita Asante when she left at the start of the playoffs to play for England in the European Championships.
 The four defenders communicated flawlessly, which might be expected when you have a coach on the field. They handed Marta off to one another as she roamed the field, limiting her opportunities to turn and run at them. Schnur, Buczkowski and Rampone each tackled the ball away from Marta in the penalty area.
 ''I can dictate what's going on on the field,'' Rampone said.
 Though she is 4-1 since replacing Kelly Lindsey, who resigned with two games left in the regular season, and Ian Sawyers, who was fired earlier in the season, Rampone said she would put her coaching career on hold. ''I'm retiring as coach for now until I'm done playing,'' Rampone said. 
 The Sol was revitalized in the second half. Though it missed the play-making midfielder Camile Abily, who is playing for France at the European Championships, it had chances. 
 Marta and Boxx, who moved from her central spot to the right flank, created them. At one point, Boxx, sprinting in and lunging at a cross, ended up in the back of the net but the ball did not. It was gloved by goalkeeper Jenni Branam, who also clutched a late volley by Boxx.
 Marta sent a free kick from 28 yards sailing over the crossbar in stoppage time. When the final whistle blew, the Sky Blue players summoned one final sprint to midfield. As they bounced up and down on the podium, the boards beneath their feet began to waver -- a metaphor, perhaps, for the league. Though the shaking caused the players to stop their dance, it did not wipe the smiles from their faces. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Heather O'Reilly (9) after scoring in the 16th minute. Sky Blue F.C., the last team to qualify for the playoffs, won the first W.P.S. title.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HOW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SOCCER (76%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (66%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (66%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



614 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2131 words

HEADLINE: And Now, an Exhibition From Our Sponsor

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
PEOPLE admiring Thomas Moran's tranquil ''View of Fairmont Waterworks, Philadelphia'' (from about 1860) or Childe Hassam's bucolic ''Old House and Garden, East Hampton'' (1917) in the show on American Impressionism at the Millennium Gate Museum in Atlanta this summer might be surprised to learn the identity of the curator: Bank of America. 
 Since the 1960s, when Chase Manhattan Bank assembled one of the first major corporate art collections under the guidance of its president, David Rockefeller, banks and other large companies have been acquiring fine art as a way to give their offices a cultured, dignified aura. Over time many companies have expanded these collections -- with in-house curators to oversee them -- and lent works to museums and other exhibition spaces, mostly for marketing reasons. 
 But a few corporations, including JPMorgan Chase, Deutsche Bank and UBS, have occasionally gone a step further, lending out complete shows. And Bank of America has lately gone further still, creating a roster of ready-made shows that it provides to museums at a nominal cost to them-- essentially turnkey exhibitions. 
 Traditionally museums have been loath to allow the sponsors of an exhibition a significant role in curatorial decision making -- particularly when the sponsor is a corporation, given the potential taint of commercialization and artistic compromise. And most major museums still draw the line there. 
 ''What is crucial is curatorial independence,'' said Glenn D. Lowry, the director of the Museum of Modern Art, ''the ability of a curator to make his or her own decisions about what would constitute an exhibition.''
 Mr. Lowry said his museum would show a corporate collection only if the majority of what was on show was donated, as was the case with the museum's UBS show in 2005. ''That's our safeguard,'' he said. ''We've had real input because it's a gift to the museum. What's going to be displayed is not going back on the market.''
 Rodney M. Cook Jr., president of the National Monuments Foundation, which owns the Millennium Gate, said he was unconcerned about the potential commercial implications of mounting a Bank of America show. ''Is there a problem with enhancing the value of a great collection?'' he said. ''The quality of this collection I would say enhances the museum more than the museum enhances the collection. It's some of the greatest pictures in America history. If our new museum can improve on the value of the bank's collection, God bless America.''
 Given the economic downturn, which has forced the cancellation, postponement or prolonging of exhibitions across the country, more small and midsize art institutions may be increasingly open to ready-made shows. 
 ''It relieves the pressure of having to always initiate shows,'' said Holly Block, executive director of the Bronx Museum of the Arts, which recently mounted ''Collected Visions: Modern and Contemporary Works from the JPMorgan Chase Art Collection,'' featuring about 70 works by some 60 artists, to commemorate the bank's 50 years of collecting. ''It's very costly, and there's not a lot of money out there right now for exhibitions. Last year was very, very hard for us to raise money. So anywhere we can create partnerships and consortiums, it's a win-win situation.''
 Ms. Block said the show also allowed the Bronx Museum to fill two galleries that otherwise would have been closed during the show's two-month duration because of budget constraints, and to exhibit work it would not have otherwise been able to obtain. ''This was an incredible opportunity,'' she said. ''It's the first time we had Andy Warhol at the Bronx Museum.''
 In conjunction with the show JPMorgan Chase also donated Martin Wong's 1981 acrylic on canvas, ''Brainwashing Cult Cons Top TV Star.''
 Started two years ago, the Bank of America program placed 12 shows in 2008 and has placed 10 so far in 2009, with 10 more scheduled for 2010 and 6 for 2011. And there is a waiting list.
 ''At first we were calling museums,'' said Rena DeSisto, the bank's global arts marketing and philanthropy executive. ''Now the calls are coming in to us.'' 
 Ms. DeSisto said the bank had initially hoped to place its shows in big museums, to build credibility, but has come to realize that its collection could instead play an important role in serving institutions with fewer resources. 
 ''Smaller community museums with more need began to ask for our program,'' she said. ''They just don't have the deep pockets, and they don't have the luxury of saying, 'We don't do corporate collections,' nor do they frankly have the snobbery about it.'' 
 At the Millennium Gate, which opened a year ago, Bank of America's Impressionism show, which runs through Dec. 6, was hugely important to efforts to build an audience. ''It's been a great way to introduce ourselves to the city,'' Mr. Cook said. ''Our curators would have had to start from the beginning to catalog everything and pack and ship it, whereas the bank has all of this already done.''
 From March 8 to July 19 the Montclair Art Museum in New Jersey mounted ''The Wyeths: Three Generations,'' an exhibition of work by N. C., Andrew and Jamie Wyeth that was put together by Bank of America. At the museum -- a 95-year-old institution with a collection of some 12,000 works -- the endowment is down 20 percent since last year, and there have been two rounds of layoffs. 
 Lora S. Urbanelli, the museum's director, said the show allowed the museum to present work it otherwise could not afford. ''For us to put together a show on Wyeth would have been very expensive,'' she explained, given the high cost of shipping, insurance and education materials, practically all of which Bank of America covered. The show was one of the museum's most successful, Ms. Urbanelli said, attracting more than 80,000 visitors.
 ''The fact that we were able to do this exhibition so easily, especially when we're under financial pressure, has been great,'' she said.
 The Association of Art Museum Directors has no policy governing shows organized by corporations and ''would not be against it,'' said Michael Conforti, the association's president, ''as long as the people involved felt comfortable themselves that a show complied with their curatorial standards.'' 
 What museums need to be conscious of, art experts say, is creating the impression that these exhibitions enhance the value of corporate collections that might one day come to market. ''A museum has to think very seriously about taking those shows,'' said John Ravenal, president of the Association of Art Museum Curators and curator of modern and contemporary art at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. ''The museum, by virtue of its stature and its public role, gives legitimacy or confers a certain kind of validity to these collections when it exhibits them.
 ''If the collection isn't a promised gift to the museum, then there is the potential for the museum to be used to unwittingly increase the value of a collection, whether its individual or corporate.'' 
 If a corporation is contributing funds to a museum that shows its collection, ''then it looks as if the museum's exhibition program is for sale,'' Mr. Ravenal said. ''They don't want to look like they're selling their reputation.''
 As for concerns that a bank would impose its curatorial tastes on the museum, Ms. Urbanelli of the Montclair Art Museum said Bank of America selected the works in the Wyeth show, but the museumhad some say in their installation. ''We were able to filter it through our own curatorial staff,'' she said. ''I don't feel like we made any kind of compromises at all. If anything, they provided us with a wonderful opportunity -- helped us to do something we would not have been able to do ourselves.''
 Richard Armstrong, director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, said he would be unlikely to accept a show put together by a corporation in part because it supplants the role of the museum's curators. ''The reason the museum exists is to make exhibitions on its own,'' he said. ''You have people on staff who consider themselves to be historians with highly nuanced receptors, and it's not healthy to duplicate that by hiring out to somebody else.'' 
 To be sure, importing a corporate-organized show might be expected to create tension between the curators at the company and those at the host museum. But Sergio Bessa, the director of curatorial and education programs at the Bronx Museum, said that his institution's collaboration with JPMorgan ''was very collegial,'' and that the show gave the museum access to blue-chip artists. 
 ''We saw an opportunity instead of a takeover,'' he said. ''I actually have quite a lot of respect for their vision. I was amazed: How did Chase get paintings by this painter and that painter?''
 The curators at corporations and museums may be equally qualified in terms of expertise, art experts say, but their responsibilities differ. ''The point of a corporate collection is to burnish the reputation of a corporation,'' Mr. Ravenal said, and corporate curators are therefore ''involved in that agenda.'' 
 Given the current state of the economy and the considerable expense of maintaining and storing art, corporations might be expected to want to sell all or part of their collections, and many smaller companies are doing some divesting. Bank of America considered selling off its entire collection of about 60,000 pieces -- all gathered through acquisitions of other banks with art collections -- even before the downturn. But the bank determined that there were other marketing benefits to be gained from the collection. 
 ''We have determined that a sale would result in an overall loss or a break-even, and that it is better used as a community support and marketing tool,'' the bank's Ms. DeSisto said: associating the bank with arts patronage and charitable giving, providing access to prospective clients in museum trustees and donors, offering opportunities for client entertainment.
 Bank of America said its cost per exhibition can range from $5,000 to $25,000, depending on how far the artwork needs to be transported, and Ms. DeSisto said the expenditure -- which she declined to quantify -- has paid off. 
 ''The income we have generated through increased business is superior to any income we could generate from selling the collection,'' she said. ''Attracting even one individual client can cover the entire cost of lending a turnkey exhibition.''
 ''Art has a very emotional pull,'' she added. ''If you are an art lover who supports your local museum, you are going to become positively inclined to the company that helps your museum thrive.''
 Other banks too have recognized the potential for such intangible dividends. ''It's not about collecting as an investment strategy,'' said Gary Hattem, president of the Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation in New York, which administers the bank's philanthropic activities in the United States, Latin America and Canada. ''It's really about being fully engaged in the communities in which we do business.''
 Deutsche Bank, with a collection of about 56,000 pieces, has made art ''a major part of our identity as a bank,'' said Liz Christensen, the company's curator for the Americas. Work from the collection, including pieces by prominent artists like Gerhard Richter, Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg and James Rosenquist, is displayed in the public areas of the bank's headquarters and in branches in 41 countries. And the reach of that identity is extended by its shows, like the coming ''Beuys and Beyond,'' featuring about 50 works on paper by Joseph Beuys and his students from the Dusseldorf Art Academy, which will travel over the next two years to museums in five countries, possibly including the United States. 
 Bank of America, which has four to five exhibits lent out at any one time, has a show of 30 watercolors of the American West painted by Alfred Jacob Miller in the early 1840s headed for the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo., next year. It is then bound for the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, followed by the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
 Peter C. Marzio, director of the Houston museum, said he was comfortable with the collaboration. ''There are people in the art field who think that somehow businessmen are evil, and you shouldn't deal with them, but they have no trouble taking their money,'' he said. ''I've always thought that was the ultimate hypocrisy. You almost can't do a contemporary art show without borrowing from some gallery, and those paintings are for sale. So it's the ultimate in commercialism, if you want to look at it that way. 
 ''I'm a big proponent of it,'' Mr. Marzio added. ''I prefer to see the art out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Impressionism exhibition at the Millennium Gate Museum in Atlanta was put together by Bank of America. Most major museums shun such corporate involvement.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AR1)
A painting by Gerhard Richter is in the lobby of Deutsche Bank's New York headquarters. Deutsche Bank's collection includes more than 50,000 works by Richter, Warhol and other prominent artists, and an executive says the company has made art ''a major part of our identity as a bank.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Top, ''Number 86'' (1980), by Jamie Wyeth, part of the Bank of America's collection. Above, Martin Wong's ''Brainwashing Cult Cons Top TV Star'' (1981), recently donated by JPMorgan Chase to the Bronx Museum of the Arts.(pg. AR21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ART COLLECTING (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: THOMAS J MORAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



615 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Finally 'Thirtysomething'?

BYLINE: By POROCHISTA KHAKPOUR. 
Porochista Khakpour, the author of the novel ''Sons and Other Flammable Objects,'' teaches creative writing at Bucknell University.

DATELINE: Saratoga Springs, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 THE year was 1987.
 In my journal, I wrote: ''Dear Diary, I've been dreaming a lot about being an author. Face it! I write books! But what about my life? What about my man? What about my children? I don't want to fall in love with writing and hate everything else.''
 I had a point, of course, but I was in the fourth grade, still a few months shy of double digits. I played House endlessly, when I wasn't playing Writer. I had life-planning woes galore and career angst aplenty, man trouble and procreation anxiety to boot. I scanned the plastic globe for honeymoon spots. I romanticized divorce the way I romanticized braces and glasses and pimples and periods -- I wanted every rite of passage, and pronto.
 I sucked my cheeks in to make cheekbones in photos; I loved shoulder-padded power suits and pumps rather than hypercolor T-shirts and graffitied Keds; fruitlessly pleaded for Lee Press-On Nails when all the girls were busy begging for crimping irons; and preferred male company to female company for mostly untomboyish reasons. 
 I just wanted to be a grown-up already.
 Part of it was that I was always among adults. My parents were Iranian immigrants who still didn't trust Americans and the American way of life fully, so certain kiddie-congregation classics like camp and slumber parties were out. Instead, I forced myself to love shopping with Mom and playing chess with Dad, and eventually I did. I preferred Marilyn Monroe on VHS to ''Jem and the Holograms'' cartoons, turned crayons into prop cigarettes and once even got caught perusing Playgirl in the magazine aisle. My parents, too busy with their new lives, never noticed the rather ''adult'' child they were creating in cloistering me from more innocent playmates. 
 In 1987, we were just a half-decade into American life when ABC began broadcasting Edward Zwick and Marshall Herskovitz's hourlong drama ''Thirtysomething.'' It was about a group of seven friends, all baby-boomer yuppies, all at the boiling point of adulthood. For me, pretty much everything about the show -- the pretentious lowercased logo; the setting in pre-sixth-borough-glory Philadelphia; the almost painstakingly unfamous cast; the difficulty in figuring out whom to crush on and whom to relate to -- did not compute, and for some big reasons. 
 First, for a smart child with adult aspirations, I was sure slow to get some basics. I was late to get death (at that point, it had never occurred that we, the real people of the real universe, did in fact really and truly die, a bubble burst most crassly by my mother, who, after realizing I thought cemeteries were just gardens filled with statues, explained that ''people's hearts are buried under there''). Despite my early porn peeks, I was actually late to get sex (explained by a preteenage friend of a friend, who pointed to a couple writhing under blankets at a park before breaking out the old plug-and-socket analogy). And somewhere between these two elements was the entirety of ''Thirtysomething.''
 So it was not really a show I watched, but one I tried to study curiously, the way children peer into their parents' underwear drawer. I looked at the pictures. I saw old people fighting, crying, hugging, kissing, but mostly just talking. All the adult talk started to take on instructional-video magnitude for me. Like school, ''Thirtysomething'' felt urgently essential and yet confusing -- always the signs that a given issue had to do with America and the fact that I was an immigrant -- and every week I tuned in hoping to learn how to talk the adult talk and maybe soon walk the adult walk. 
 By adult, I, of course, meant an American adult. My 30-something parents were Iranian adults, and they didn't count. I looked at Hope and Michael and their pleated pants and suspenders and Ivy League sweatshirts, while my parents, overdressed, fallen aristocrats still holding on to their '70s-best, spiked with ever more sore-thumbish Kmart and JC Penney additions, totally fell short. I decided to give up on my parents, and looked to the television.
 Maybe, I thought, one day I will have a chance to be like that.
 Maybe one day, I still think. I'm 31 now.
 AT Yaddo, the writer's colony where I'm supposed to be working on my second novel, I'm instead watching episode after episode of ''Thirtysomething,'' the first season of which finally arrives on DVD this week. One evening, I even showed the pilot to about a dozen writers and artists in West House, where 50 years ago the poets Ted Hughes and Sylvia Plath resided. (Plath, of course, killed herself just a few months after her 30th birthday.) After the screening, many of the artists said they found it ''outdated'' or ''boring'' or ''depressing.'' The show has always inspired, along with absolute love, serious derision -- Susan Faludi decried its all-sacrificing mothers in her book ''Backlash.'' 
 I, too, joined the crowd, rolled my eyes -- and then rushed to my laptop to watch more. The first season was about what I expected: money problems, friendship crises, crying babies, mortgage talk, parental visits, endless breakups, rekindled affairs, co-worker crushes, job insecurities, couples therapy, bed chatter, blind dates, tenure anxieties -- all the dreams/nightmares playing house is made of. But this show that once inspired its contemporaries to comfy-cozy viewing nights left me -- naturally jaded, trying-to-be-cynical, post-sentimentality me -- in a stew of mixed emotions: it is true, it is real, it is me, it is not me, it is horrible, and I love it. 
 Even after 27 years of being American, the last 8 as a true citizen, I was once again filled with a foreigner's panic and reverence at the show's slice of American life. But the reasons were different this time. I was drawn to ''Thirtysomething'' not for what it could teach me about life as an American adult, but because of its very distance from the American adults I am and know. I was watching not to emulate their lives, but because theirs are lives I just don't see, period.
 I'm part of the Peter Pan-ish Gen-X final trickle -- and what do we know about growing up? My friends are all broke, say ''whatever'' too much, still live in Converses and constant hangovers, still yell at their parents on the phone and two seconds later ask for money and possibly a place to crash, are still deferring college loans and say everything is the new something-else, including the 30s, which are the new 20s. The economy is in crisis, and they don't care; they have become Zen about debt, having been impoverished, if trust-fund-less, since they got out of college at the beginning of the millennium, a time of tragedy and war and turmoil, their entire 20s devoured by someone they refer to only by a twangy iteration of his middle initial. 
 But now, as a writer playing Writer more than ever and a woman on the verge of playing House for real, I find myself torn between the decadent counterculture of my 20s and a desire for things ''properly'' adult. And this is the very no-man's-land paralysis that ''Thirtysomething'' was obsessed with, that cold-sweat-panic moment when youthful rebellion runs headlong into the responsibilities, pains and joys of full-blown adulthood. 
 In this second-chance viewing as a thirtysomething, I am amazed and inspired by all the everything-in-between, all the nothing-happening, all the ambivalence and the stagnation. At times, the camera lingers too long on the expressions of a jilted Nancy or an overwhelmed Michael or a hopeless Hope, and those are the looks no one shows you in real life much anymore, much less on TV. It's as if with its devotion to the faithful naturalism of everyday details and all the microcosms of absolute, roller-coaster intimacy, it is the real reality TV, every bit as boring and dazzling as the real ''real life.''
 In an interview on the DVD, one of the producers, Richard Kramer, summed up about the very purpose of art when he said the show was trying to get at, simply, the challenge of ''trying to be a good man or woman in an impossible world.'' Whether you're with ''Thirtysomething'' or not -- or still trying to figure it out -- that predicament properly explored, on paper or on screen, never quite gets old.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAURICE VELLEKOOP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



616 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: The Power of the Purse

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN. 
Lisa Belkin is a contributing writer and the author of the Motherlode blog.

 BODY:
Remember the concept of ''sisterhood''? That quaint relic of an idea that women owed it to other women to crash through ceilings and navigate a male world? It just might be taking new root in a most unexpected place -- among women with money. There are more women controlling more wealth in the U.S. than ever before. (Of those in the wealthiest tier of the country -- defined by the I.R.S. as individuals with assets of at least $1.5 million -- 43 percent are women.) And unlike the women who preceded them -- old-school patrons who gave to the museum and the symphony and their dead husbands' alma maters -- these givers are more likely to use their wealth deliberately and systematically to aid women in need.
 To appreciate the magnitude of this change, go back 150 years or so to the women's suffrage movement. Back to when one of its leaders, Matilda Joslyn Gage, lamented: ''We have yet to hear of a woman of wealth who has left anything for the enfranchisement of her sex. Almost every daily paper heralds the fact of some large bequest to colleges, churches and charities by rich women, but it is proverbial that they never remember the woman suffrage movement that underlies in importance all others.'' 
 Then jump forward to the present: globally, more than 145 funds, with assets of nearly half a billion dollars, exist to improve the lives of women and girls. Many focus their efforts domestically; about a third work internationally. Not one existed in 1972 when the Ms. Foundation, the first national fund for and by women, was established. Collectively they now form the Women's Funding Network and have plans to increase their joint coffers by another billion dollars by 2018, in concert with a drive called Women Moving Millions, which aims to encourage individuals, mostly women, to donate $1 million or more. The goal was to raise $150 million in three years, a target exceeded this spring by $30 million. 
 Women Moving Millions began with the literal sisterhood of Helen LaKelly Hunt and Swanee Hunt. Daughters of the legendary oilman H. L. Hunt, they were raised ''like Southern belles,'' Helen says -- taught that money was something a woman ''shouldn't worry her pretty little head about.'' As adults they discovered the power of philanthropy, and about three years ago Swanee (whose own nonbelle career includes years as ambassador to Austria and a lectureship at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where she teaches that gender parity is the way to ensure peace and rebuild societies) called Helen with an offer. ''She said she was going to leave me a lot of money in her will,'' Helen says, ''but I might die first and ruin the surprise, so why doesn't she give it to me now.'' Swanee's $6 million, and $4 million more from Helen, became the initial pledges to the campaign. 
 Helen was motivated in part by her own historical research. While writing her doctoral thesis on the origins of feminism, she pieced together the evidence that wealthy women sat on the sidelines during the fight for the right to vote. ''Women gave heart, mind, body, intellect, will, blood, sweat and tears, but not their dollars,'' she says. ''Women didn't fund suffrage; now women are funding women. That's historic.''
 Some of these new-style philanthropists have familiar names. Oprah comes to mind, as do Abigail Disney, a grandniece of Walt's, who, with her husband, Pierre Hauser, created the Daphne Foundation, in 1991; and Jennifer Buffett, daughter-in-law of Warren, who is co-chairman of the NoVo Foundation with her husband, Peter; both give much of their money to programs that support low-income women and girls. But most names are not as well known -- like Kayrita M. Anderson, the daughter of a housecleaner, whose family foundation has given more than $2 million to help stop child prostitution. Or Jacki Zehner, the first female trader to become a partner at Goldman Sachs and whose family foundation pledged a million to the W.M.M. campaign. 
 In general, women give differently than men. They are less likely to want their names on things and more likely to give as part of drives (large ones, like Women Moving Millions, and smaller ones, like living-room ''giving circles'') that include other women. And they tend to spotlight different causes (women's health, microfinancing of businesses owned by women) and for different reasons. A study of more than 10,000 large donors by the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University suggests that while men describe their giving as practical -- filling in the gaps that government can't or won't -- women describe theirs as emotional, an obligation to help those with less. 
 Behind all this giving lies the theory that helping women and children is the way to change the planet. ''Seventy percent of people living in poverty around the world are women and children,'' says Christine Grumm, president and C.E.O. of the Women's Funding Network. ''If women have a roof over their heads and a home free of violence, and good and affordable health care, then so do children. In the larger picture, it's not just about women, but entire communities. Women are the conduits through which change is made.'' 
 What kind of change this X-linked economic paradigm will bring is still an open question. But what already seems clear is that women are finding their financing clout, and they might have found new unity to boot. ''You've heard that old nursery rhyme?'' asks Helen LaKelly Hunt. ''The king is in the counting house counting all the money, the queen is in the parlor, eating bread and honey?'' Not anymore, she says. Now ''the queen is in there counting, too.'' And she has brought a whole roomful of her friends. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK PETERSON) CHART: 24.2%: is the increase in the value of philanthropic gifts made by 55 women's funds between 2004 and 2006.(SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : THE FOUNDATION CENTER AND WOMEN'S FUNDING NETWORK.)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY BOB LONDON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); PHILANTHROPY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION CENTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



617 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONNECTICUT DINING STAMFORD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Tasty Thai, And Chinese Surprises

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
CHINESE restaurants and take-outs are a yuan-a-dozen in Connecticut, often such clones of one another that reviewing more than one is a redundancy. 
 What drew me to Little Buddha in Stamford was a case of mistaken identity. A friend told me, erroneously, that Little Buddha specialized in Hakka cooking, a rarity in the United States and nonexistent (to my knowledge) in Connecticut. I wanted to give it a try. What led me to visit twice, though, was not the limited Hakka menu, but a combination of good food and even better prices -- perfectly suited to penny-watching in our current economic downturn. 
 The real tip-off about Little Buddha is its subtitle: ''Thai & Beyond.'' This tiny newcomer offers an amalgam of Thai, Malaysian, Indonesian and Chinese cooking, with just a touch of Hakka. It is the newest in Shiva Natarajan's mini-empire. In addition to Little Buddha, he owns Thai and Indian restaurants in Fairfield County and in New York. 
 Little Buddha's strengths are its piquant Thai dishes, like lemongrass shrimp, tossed with galangal, red and green peppers and onions. Beef larb -- a fiery salad of minced beef, scallions, onions, mint and red chilies, served on iceberg lettuce -- was a texture and taste treat. Among several Thai curries, the red coconut curry, with white-meat chicken, fresh basil and matchsticks of thinly sliced bamboo shoots, was both soothing and incendiary, the undercooked green beans its only flaw.
 There were a few Chinese surprises as well. Crispy okra was an offbeat appetite arouser: strips of crisp, salty, deep-fried okra with a smoky chili seasoning. Nonya calamari -- piping hot, breaded squid rings with scallions, onions and bell peppers and a curry tang -- was among many spicy starters. Lively entrees included tamarind shrimp (with broccoli) and duck choo chee (smothered in a peppery paste and joined with lime leaves, snow peas and broccoli).
 Not everything at Little Buddha is hotly seasoned. For bean curd lovers (like me), generous chunks of tofu served with fresh basil and button mushrooms are a treat. Beef cashew (with pineapple, celery and nuts) was competent but unexciting. 
 Mango fish -- red snapper in a luscious curry coconut mango sauce -- sounded appealing, but the fish bits were dried out and curled at the edges. One dish that needs the delete button is chili paneer cheese; the little cheese slabs were rubbery. Another unwelcome surprise was mango coconut sticky rice, usually a reliable dessert, whose sweet, fresh mango slices were paired with sticky rice that was stale and crusty.
 Where Hakka cooking fits into this Asian culinary map is a bit of a puzzle. The Hakka dishes I had tried in Hong Kong and Chicago were rather mildly seasoned. But the Hakkas, it seems, were nomads who came from the north and settled around Guangzhou; two very zesty dishes at Little Buddha reflect those northern roots. A starter, cauliflower Manchurian, was a melange of lightly breaded florets, onions, ginger and garlic in a zinger of a sauce. Shrimp Manchurian, an entree, consisted of jumbo shrimp, with soy, ginger, garlic and a tangy sauce.
 A third dish, Hakka noodles, was well spiced, but a bit of a mishmash. Far better were two other noodle dishes: pad Thai and drunken noodles (with soy, chilies and eggs). An Indonesian favorite, mee goring (eggy noodles with mustard greens, green chillies and lime), was also well prepared. 
 I spotted the mee goring at the table of the couple sitting next to us. It was hard not to -- the seating is so close that dining is almost a communal experience, which has its charm. Little Buddha's cramped quarters may encourage take-out, but the conversation between our foursome and our neighbors, who shared some of their experiences in Indonesia with us, made our eat-in evening there all the more enjoyable.
 Little Buddha
 2270 Summer Street
 Stamford
 (203) 356-9166
 LittleThaiKitchen.com
 GOOD
 THE SPACE Minuscule space seating a mere 14, with open kitchen in the rear and a decorative Chinese panel separating the dining area from the kitchen. Front door is at street level with wheelchair access.
 THE CROWD Mostly couples and twosomes of varying ages. Very casual attire. Wait staff helpful and friendly, maitre d' especially gracious. 
 THE BAR None, but you can bring your own wine or beer; no corkage charge. 
 THE BILL Though prices are different, the menu is almost the same at lunch (entrees, $6 to $12) and dinner (entrees, $8 to $19). At both meals: appetizers, $2 to $8; desserts, $5 to $6. Most major credit cards accepted. 
 WHAT WE LIKE Crispy okra, beef larb, lemongrass shrimp, cauliflower Manchurian; shrimp Manchurian, duck choo chee, tamarind shrimp, pad Thai, drunken noodles, mee goring, basil tofu mushrooms, red curry with chicken; pumpkin Thai custard.
 IF YOU GO Lunch: daily, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Dinner: daily, 4 to 10 p.m. Reservations accepted. Parking on the street or in Ridgeway Shopping Complex across the street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TINY NEWCOMER: Little Buddha in Stamford has few seats, but a variety of intriguing dishes, like beef larb, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); INDONESIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



618 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CROSSROADS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Theory and Morality in the New Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt writes a weekly economics column for The Times.

 BODY:
The indispensable economist of the moment is clearly John Maynard Keynes. Keynes's prescription for financial crises -- aggressive government action and, by definition, big budget deficits -- has been Washington's basic approach since Lehman Brothers collapsed last September. Eleven months later, the economy remains deeply troubled, and it probably will be for some time. But our Great Recession seems unlikely to turn into another Great Depression.
 It is impossible to know just how much credit the Keynesian approach deserves, because we can't rerun the past year with a Hooverite economic strategy and see what would happen. Still, history seems to have vindicated Keynes. Likewise, it has indicted the laissez-faire philosophy that had been ascendant for most of the last three decades. 
 The indispensable economist of that philosophy, of course, is Adam Smith. Smith's invisible hand -- which, in his description, guides an individual to promote the interests of society more effectually than he intends -- has not looked so effectual lately. In Obama's Washington, understandably enough, Keynes seems to be in and Smith out. 
 Yet here is where the story becomes a little complicated. Six years ago, Bantam Classic published a mass-market volume of Smith's 1776 masterwork, ''The Wealth of Nations,'' with an introduction by Alan B. Krueger, an economics professor at Princeton. Krueger argued that Smith's modern image had become unhinged from his actual writings. ''Smith was a nuanced thinker. He was not nearly as doctrinaire a defender of unfettered free enterprise as many of his late-20th-century followers have made him out to be,'' Krueger wrote. ''He recognized that human judgment was not infallible.'' 
 Smith was indeed a champion of individual liberty and worried about how governments might muck up an economy. But he also wrote that the goal of employers, ''always and everywhere,'' was to keep wages as low as possible. ''When the regulation, therefore, is in favor of the workmen, it is always just and equitable; but it is sometimes otherwise when in favor of the masters,'' he concluded. He supported a tax on luxury carriages and taxes on alcohol, sugar and tobacco. He said that ''negligence and profusion'' inevitably occur when corporate managers control shareholders' money. And as the historian Emma Rothschild has noted, ''The Wealth of Nations'' uses the phrase ''invisible hand'' precisely once. In the 1,231-page Bantam edition, it appears on Page 572.
 I stumbled on that edition earlier this year in my local bookstore and was struck by Krueger's name on the cover. These days, he is the chief economist in the Obama Treasury Department, the lead agency in the administration's efforts to halt the economic crisis. The ideas of Keynes, surely, are central to those efforts. But the ideas of Smith are not anathema to the administration. In fact, Smith turns out to be a useful guide to the ways Obama is and is not trying to reshape the American economy. Smith also lurks, often unnamed, in some of the most thoughtful early books to have been published on the Great Recession.
 Beyond the immediate crisis, today's overarching economic challenge is figuring out how the country can reap the benefits of Smith's market-based system without experiencing the worst of its downsides. In the decades after World War II, the Keynesians who descended on Washington thought they had solved this problem. With the right mix of spending, regulation and interest rates, they believed, the business cycle could be tamed and unemployment largely eliminated. ''This was hubris,'' Paul Krugman, the Nobel laureate and liberal Times Op-Ed columnist, writes in ''The Return of Depression Economics and the Crisis of 2008.'' Technocrats overestimated how many jobs they could create without aggravating inflation, and aggravate inflation they did. 
 Their failures, combined with the greater failure of socialist economies, set the stage for the ascendancy of laissez-faire economics. Much of Asia moved to a market-based system and experienced stunning improvements in living conditions. As Krugman writes, ''capitalism could with considerable justification claim the credit.'' These successes, however, created their own excesses. The principles of laissez-faire capitalism were elevated to the status of religious scripture, with Alan Greenspan as high priest. In ''The Cost of Capitalism,'' Robert J. Barbera, a longtime Wall Street economist, notes that Greenspan and others confused the fact that market capitalism was thebest economic system with the misguided notion that it was the perfect system. 
 Barbera calls instead for ''an enlightened synthesis.'' Such a synthesis -- one that takes Smith at his word rather than his caricature -- is at the core of almost every serious vision of a postcrisis American economy. For Barbera, it means the Federal Reserve should recognize that bubbles are the norm and that preventing them is its job. For the conservative appellate judge and law professor Richard A. Posner, it means seeing the crisis as ''A Failure of Capitalism,'' as he titled his latest book. Among other things, Posner suggests a modern-day version of Smith's tax on luxury carriages: ''increasing the marginal income tax rate of persons who have very high incomes, in order to reduce their appetite for risk-taking.'' And in ''Animal Spirits,'' George A. Akerlof (another Nobel laureate) and Robert J. Shiller (who issued early warnings about the dot-com and housing bubbles) say the synthesis must take into account the many ways in which people are not the coldly rational, utility-maximizing beings that laissez-faire economic models imagine.
 Smith, as it happens, would have been quite comfortable with this notion. At the University of Glasgow he held the chair of moral philosophy, and his second most famous book was titled ''The Theory of Moral Sentiments.'' In ''The Wealth of Nations,'' he wrote of the ways that pride, envy, respect and other emotions influenced decisions. Intriguingly, this is the version of Smith that Obama likes to recall.
 Last summer, during an interview shortly before the Democratic National Convention, I was asking Obama about the benefits and limits of a market economy, when he brought up Smith. ''Adam Smith, at the same time as he was writing about the invisible hand, he was also writing about that moral sense -- that human ecology -- that allows a market to work: the sense that if I bring my goods into the market, someone is not going to hit me over the head; the sense that because I am trading with this guy often enough, that I know that the scales aren't tampered with,'' Obama said. ''That compact that we make is not just legalistic. It has to do also with our politics and our culture, and when that starts eroding it inhibits economic growth as well.''
 You can make a good case that, for all the talk-show chatter about whether Obama is a socialist, his agenda is in fact tinged with Smith. The administration's various attempts to reduce inequality are meant, at their core, to make Americans feel as if the economic system is fair -- that the scales haven't been tampered with. In responding to the financial crisis, Obama eschewed the left's calls for nationalizing the banks and instead kept them in private hands, albeit with public assistance. To reduce health care costs, he favors moving away from a fee-for-service system, which has the same perverse incentives Smith liked to denounce.
 Economic historians could doubtless have a spirited debate about whether Smith would have supported or disdained the White House's agenda. But it's reasonable to think that, either way, he would have had something trenchant to say about its chances of success. Among his more radical observations was that legislators tended to defer to those ''masters'' of industry, even when their aims would hurt the citizenry. To put it another way, economic theory can do only so much for a president. The rest falls to politics. 
 This is the fourth in a series of essays exploring dominant themes and currents of thought in particular areas of American life. The next essay in the series, which will continue in this space over the coming months, is scheduled to appear Sept. 6. An archive can be found at nytimes.com/crossroads. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA HOFFMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HISTORY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



619 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: My Place or Yours?

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re: ''In the Grip of Indecision,'' by Laura M. Holson, Aug. 16: 
 In this time of financial stress and uncertainty in real estate and employment, isn't there another choice for an engaged couple than holding on to a mortgaged Midtown apartment versus a rented Great Neck apartment?
 How about her living in the Manhattan apartment weekdays and joining her guy in Great Neck on weekends, or both of them occupying the Midtown apartment and giving up the Great Neck apartment when the lease expires (or breaking it)? What is so wonderful about a Great Neck rental compared to owning a Manhattan apartment? 
 The arrangement would be: ''Let's live together,'' not ''You live in my place and lose money.''
 When the economy and/or the real estate market improves, and the apartment can be sold, there will be funds to move on to bigger, and perhaps better, housing.
 Dr. Shirley Budhos 
 Manhattan
 Dr. Budhos describes herself as ''not a psychologist, but a survivor of a long marriage.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



620 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: At Pebble Beach, High End Holds as Other Prices Soften

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

DATELINE: MONTEREY, Calif. 

 BODY:
 DESPITE the Champagne flutes and oversize hats at the Pebble Beach classic-car celebrations last weekend, it was clear that the economy was weighing on collectors.
 Five auctions took place in the Monterey area starting on Aug. 13. And while these provide a gauge of the current market, the mixed results make it hard to reach simple conclusions. 
 As expected, total dollar volume declined -- to about $117 million this year from $138 million in 2008. Gooding & Company was again the overall leader with just over $50 million of sales.
 But the total amounts that changed hands don't tell the whole story: overall results were puffed up by sales of high-price cars like a 1965 Shelby Cobra Daytona Coupe that brought $7.25 million including buyer's premium (the weekend's high sale) at the Mecum Auctions sale; a Ferrari California Spider sold by Gooding for $5.1 million; and a Jaguar C-Type that brought $2.8 million at the RM auction. 
 A 1938 Bugatti Type 57C Special, once Ettore Bugatti's personal car, sold for $1.38 million. 
 A collection of 50 American woodys was also well received, selling for a total of nearly $7.5 million at an RM auction.
 The auctions' sell-through rates -- the percentage of cars that actually sold -- ranged from a high of more than 80 percent to a low of around 50 percent. 
 Clearly, buyers at the very top end of the market still have no qualms about writing checks for very expensive cars. The 10 highest single-lot sales came to more than $40 million, or a third of the total.
 But the situation was less rosy further down the line. More common cars and those in less-than-perfect condition sold, in many cases, for much less than their low estimates. 
 Beyond the auctions, Pebble Beach continued to draw sponsors despite the recession. Automakers as varied as Hyundai and Bentley introduced new models here.
 Of the classics, a scene-stealer was a 1937 Horch 853 Sport Cabriolet. The imposing German convertible, owned by Robert M. Lee of Sparks, Nev., was named Best of Show at the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROCK STAR: Best of Show at Pebble Beach was a 1937 Horch.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PEBBLE BEACH CONCOURS D'ELEGANCE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SPORTS CARS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



621 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: In Suburbs, Bank Robbers Like the Layout

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

DATELINE: WESTPORT, Conn. 

 BODY:
 IT was near closing time that Friday, May 15, at the TD Bank branch, a Colonial-style red-brick building that sits next to a wine bar and across from a playground. The front door opened and a young man walked past the A.T.M. and the cup of free pens and entered the lobby. 
 ''I said hello to him,'' a manager at the bank would recall later. ''Just a normal guy.'' 
 The normal guy approached the teller, who greeted him not through bulletproof glass but, as in many banks desiring an open and casual environment, through thin air. The man handed her a note demanding money. This was a bank robbery. 
 The crime was still fresh when, the very next day, it happened again. Different robber. Same bank. The police believe the two men are working together. 
 The towns of Fairfield County, from Darien to Wilton to Westport, are home to the wealthy, the elite and, this summer, to two busy robbers. The police said the same man -- and sometimes his partner -- appears to have robbed or tried to rob 10 or 11 banks in several of these towns since May. Residents have been taken aback; they were more accustomed to seeing the movie bandit Paul Newman, who lived in Westport, than an actual criminal. 
 ''He likes the Gold Coast, obviously,'' said Lt. Ronald Bussell of the Darien police, using the nickname for the affluent area. Lieutenant Bussell has found himself working with detectives in Wilton, Westport, Norwalk, Stamford and Fairfield in pursuit of the energetic suspects. 
 Regionally, the police do not say that bank robberies are rising. In New Jersey, such crimes are up by exactly one, to 111 through Aug. 17, from 110 for the same period last year. In New York City, bank robberies through Aug. 12 numbered only 159, far fewer than the 244 in the same period last year. True, bank robberies are higher in Connecticut -- 20 so far this year through Aug. 19, compared with 12 in 2008 -- but without the Gold Coast robbers the 2009 numbers would be down.
 However, some law enforcement officials do say that bank robberies are migrating, from the cities to the suburbs. Many of these officials point to the casual, open layout of many suburban banks -- like the TD Bank branch in Westport -- as a possible factor in the trend. 
 Whether or not the Gold Coast robbers symbolize such a suburban shift, the Connecticut police have their hands full and few clues to go on. They say the principal thief is a white man in his 20s in a Mets cap, glasses and a fake nose or beard. He speaks calmly and politely, asking for large bills. He has a pointy nose and is clean shaven and slender. Sometimes he wears a bandanna. Sometimes he leaves empty-handed. He drives away in a black BMW. The police believe his partner is about the same age, but huskier. 
 ''It appears that somebody's driving a car,'' said Capt. Richard Conklin of the Police Department in Stamford, where the robbers have struck twice. ''At times they switch up. One will be the driver and one will be the person who enters the bank. They're wearing various disguises, between hats, sunglasses, fake beards, things like that.''
 The authorities will not disclose the amounts stolen, but they believe the men robbed or tried to rob banks in Norwalk on May 4; Westport on May 8 and May 15 and 16 (the TD Bank heists); Stamford on May 30; and Darien on June 10. In Darien, the thief got nothing.
 ''He came in and, for unknown reasons, something spooked him and he left,'' Lieutenant Bussell said. 
 A day later, on June 11, he robbed another bank in Norwalk, and one in Stamford on June 23, and then one in Fairfield on July 6. The next day, he returned to Darien for another bank job -- not at the Chase branch where he was spooked a month earlier, but at a Citibank. Finally, on July 23, a man believed to be one of the suspects robbed the Patriot National Bank in Wilton.
 Since July 23, the police said, there has not been another robbery that they attribute to these suspects. 
 As they pursue the busy thieves, the police ponder the motives behind such crimes. ''I think the economy comes into play,'' Captain Conklin said. 
 Others are not so sure. 
 ''It has nothing to do with the economy,'' said Steven Siegel, a special agent who coordinates bank robbery investigations for the New Jersey office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. ''We catch bank robbers, and they talk,'' he said. ''We have yet to run into a guy who says, 'I robbed a bank because my 401(k) tanked.' For the most part they do have criminal histories.''
 But law enforcement officials tend to agree that relaxed bank security -- often driven by an attempt to create a friendly atmosphere, without barriers between tellers and customers -- can attract robbers. 
 ''I think a lack of target-hardening by the banks comes into play,'' Captain Conklin said. When robbers are caught, he said, they often say they have aborted planned robberies when they saw that the target bank had bandit barriers. Agent Siegel agreed. When banks relax their security, he said, ''All they're doing is being bank-robber friendly.'' 
 Some data supports this thinking. In New Jersey last year, only 12 percent of banks robbed -- 24 of 195 -- had bandit barriers in place, Captain Conklin said.
 If the barriers matter, this may explain the migration of robberies to the suburbs. ''The most common areas to have these barriers are the urban areas, the cities,'' Agent Siegel said. ''Once they get hardened, the robbers tend to go out to the suburban counties.''
 But David Flaherty, a spokesman for TD Bank, defended its aversion to bandit barriers. 
 ''Not all employees can be positioned behind bandit barriers, increasing the likelihood that they -- or our customers -- could be subjected to violence or used as potential hostages during an armed robbery,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''We strongly believe that bandit barriers place the safety of our customers and employees at risk.'' 
 In any case, as the Connecticut police pursue the Gold Coast robbers, they have been buoyed by several recent law enforcement successes. On Aug. 13, a woman from New Britain, Conn., Sandra Gola, was sentenced to 10 months in prison after pleading guilty to helping her brother rob four Connecticut banks and five others in 2004. The following day, the police said, the United States Marshals Service arrested Anthony Hall, 48, in Brooklyn. He is a suspect in three Connecticut bank robberies. 
 But the Gold Coast thieves remain at large. In that part of Connecticut, with its universities and old-money families, their black BMW may blend in better than most getaway cars. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CRIME SPREE: The TD Bank in Westport, Conn., was robbed May 15 and 16, two of a string of robberies in the area. At right, an image from May 16. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 WESTPORT POLICE DEPARTMENT) (pg.MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK ROBBERY (91%); ROBBERY (90%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CRIME RATES (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



622 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: A Privileged World Begins to Give Up Its Secrets

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
About 10 years ago, when I was working in Frankfurt, Germany's banking capital, I was invited to the top floor of the glittering skyscraper headquarters of one of the country's most venerable banks. There, I was treated to something that, it was made clear to me, few eyes usually had the privilege of seeing -- a tour of its private art collection, an impressive spattering of modern and ancient European and American masters.
 The point was, those pictures reflected the bank's wealth. And the fact the secretive treasures were kept forever behind closed doors for the enjoyment of the privileged few reflected its power. 
 If that seems like a different era, it is. Banks around the world are reeling, as we know; the European banks' losses are among the most ruinous. And their prestige and putative secrecy and independence received a further blow last week, when the government of Switzerland agreed to release to the United States the names of 4,450 American citizens suspected of using secret Swiss accounts at UBS, the country's biggest bank, for tax evasion.
 The victory for the United States was made possible by evidence from an American-born whistleblower -- code name Tarantula -- a disgruntled former UBS employee from the Boston area who was working in Switzerland. Until he left the bank, he was part of a UBS team that made frequent trips across the Atlantic to aggressively market investment strategies to rich Americans to elude the scrutiny of the Internal Revenue Service.
 But it would be wrong to see the settlement as a one-off strike against just one bank by a single government. It is in fact the result of a broader political moment created in the wake of the global financial crisis when disenchantment with financial globalization is causing governments to repatriate wealth back to within national borders, especially at a time when countries badly need to balance their books.
 Just a few years ago, in the pre-crisis era, the shadowy workings of cross-border banking -- and what may or may not have been happening there -- were generally overlooked. 
 And, while some of the alleged tax evaders may be the war criminals, gunrunners or despots usually linked with secret foreign bank accounts, the target of the latest efforts are much more likely to include rich businessmen and high-net-worth individuals. ''There is a political movement because of the financial debacle,'' said one veteran European banker who insisted on speaking anonymously because he has retired. ''They are turning toward the so-called rich and want to hurt them.''
 Of course, the United States looks at it a bit differently. Prosecutors have contended that in the UBS case alone, wealthy Americans hid billions of dollars, thereby evading taxes of hundreds of millions of dollars a year.
 While Switzerland is arguably the largest off-shore center, it is not the only one. Supporters of its banking secrecy code point out that the code is wrapped up in the country's claims to neutrality and being above the global political fray. But secrecy has also turned out to be immensely lucrative; according to some estimates one-quarter of the world's offshore money now resides in Switzerland.
 Other countries or territories have copied the model -- Liechtenstein, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, Macao and Hong Kong among them. And while Switzerland is probably seen as the most conservative, blue chip, upstanding offshore haven, the others are measured by a sliding scale of probity and association with dubious business practices, if not crime. The European banker said that in the early 1990s, following the fall of the Soviet Union, he worked in Switzerland where he said agents of Russian expats would show up with ''boxes of cash'' from Cyprus, a popular haven for capital fleeing the Russian authorities and the country's post-collapse chaos.
 The backlash against this illicit world has not been confined to the United States; it is apparent across Europe, too.
 France will become of one of the first European countries to put in place a new tax treaty with Switzerland to improve transparency and access to banking information. Germany is in discussions with Liechtenstein over issues related to tax evasion by German companies and individuals. Liechtenstein has also struck a disclosure agreement with Britain, encouraging British clients of Liechtenstein banks to volunteer information to British tax authorities in return for reduced penalties. In Italy, tax officials have started an investigation into whether the estate of the late Gianni Agnelli, the former chairman of Fiat, has money hidden away in Switzerland. In Britain, the government has become particularly exercised by tax competition -- the offering of low tax rates and other advantages like tax secrecy to lure capital away.
 In the Swiss settlement last week, the American authorities got the information they needed after they saw an opportunity in the weakness of UBS, a bank that once enjoyed a sterling global reputation but has suffered billions of dollars in losses linked to United States subprime securities and had to be saved by a big government bailout last October. For the Swiss government, the deal lifts the immediate threat of heftier legal action and frees the bank -- one of the mainstays of the Swiss economy -- to concentrate on recovery.
 But will anything really change? Although the United States is supposed to learn the identities of a few thousand tax evaders, those names will go first to an intermediate tax administration in Switzerland for review. The actual process of recovering the names may become lost in bureaucracy and foot-dragging. 
 Moreover, as The Times reported last week, smaller Swiss banks say they are confident that they can continue to profit by finding new, more elaborate ways to protect the privacy of their clients. Those banks continue to help clients hide billions of dollars through complex structures in offshore havens.
 But the I.R.S. commissioner, Doug Schulman, said the agreement with UBS was a ''major step forward'' in the government's efforts to pierce bank secrecy, and he warned that ''wealthy Americans who have hidden their money offshore will find themselves in a jam.'' 
 In the new political climate, expect to see a few rich Americans shifting uncomfortably.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OPENING THE BOOKS: UBS, the giant Swiss bank, has agreed to turn over information to the United States on American clients suspected of tax evasion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WALTER BIERI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); WAR CRIMES (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (93%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



623 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: The Game Plan: Off-Field Sizzle

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
A great quarterback need not be a handsome hunk, a marketing icon, a charmer or a serial-dating dude.
 But it doesn't hurt when you occupy sports' glamour position. 
 Consider Mark Sanchez, the No. 1 draft choice of the New York Jets, a team in desperate need of panache, personality and victories.
 Sanchez has curly hair, an electric smile, a Mexican-American heritage and an easy manner with the news media. He is polished, bright and articulate, and understands big-market media after being a star in Los Angeles at the University of Southern California. 
 He ended his only full season as U.S.C.'s starting quarterback by leading the Trojans to a 38-24 rout over Penn State in the Rose Bowl.
 And he is arguably even better looking than the young Joe Namath, who glamorized the quarterback species in the 1960s and '70s (with Farrah Fawcett wrapped seductively around him), slipping on Hanes Beauty Mist pantyhose (if it made his legs look good, well), advertising Noxzema shaving cream, opening a Manhattan bar (calling it, quite appropriately, Bachelors III) and squiring Raquel Welch to the Academy Awards.
 Sanchez hasn't yet hawked Noxzema, but he has posed topless for GQ. And it seems he may be the closest thing the Jets have to a quarterback with Namath potential. And even Namath was not Namath immediately. 
 Sonny Werblin, the entertainment impresario who was a part owner and the president of the Jets, ''introduced Joe to New York society,'' said Mark Kriegel, author of ''Namath: A Biography.'' He ''brought him to the bars, not just as a social mission, but to create an archetype.'' 
 ''He did such a good job with Joe,'' Mr. Kriegel added, ''that we're talking about Mark Sanchez playing the same role.''
 Sanchez was a national stud even before he knew the Jets' playbook.
 He posed for GQ's June issue in bathing suits and shorts on a California beach, nuzzling the bikini-clad Hilary Rhoda. His teammates seized on the pictorial and imagined him in a male model walk-off, like the one in ''Zoolander,'' against Jets defensive back Kerry Rhodes, who is nicknamed Hollywood.
 ''Walking sex has a new name,'' reported The New York Post, as if a lost Sanchez porn film had been found. The ''succulent'' Sanchez, it wrote, ''is bona fide cougar bait.''
 And then, as if to prove that a bona fide player lurked inside, Sanchez's first pass in the Jets' first exhibition game last week was a 48-yard completion -- part of a drive that ended in a touchdown. But Sanchez has yet to win the starting quarterback position. Rex Ryan, the Jets' coach, has not chosen between Sanchez and Kellen Clemens, a career backup.
 And even once chosen, he must do more. 
 ''You've got to win, baby, win,'' said Steve Rosner, a principal at 16W, a sports marketing firm. 
 ''All the stars are lining up for him to be a marquee player for a decade,'' Rosner said. ''Now he's got to go out and do it.''
 Winning is the essence of quarterback glamour. Joe Montana had oodles of glamour. So did John Elway. Michael Vick could have had it, but glamour cannot abide dogfighting. 
 Though not classically handsome, Peyton Manning has an Everyman appeal. He has fulfilled the requirements of quarterback greatness by being clutch and winning a Super Bowl; he has exploited that by being perhaps the most heavily-marketed quarterback ever. His brother, Eli, the Giants quarterback, is slightly less glamorous, but he has a Super Bowl victory, too.
 The apotheosis of modern quarterback glamour is Tom Brady of the New England Patriots. He has led the Patriots to three Super Bowl victories, which has placed him in the historic elite.
 Brady has good looks, he's cool, he's had a relationship with the actress Bridget Moynahan (who gave birth to their son after they broke up) and is married to the supermodel Gisele Bundchen. He looks good in a tux. 
 Still, the New York quarterback is a species unto itself, if only because of the size of the market, and the potential financial rewards.
 Sanchez's contract is worth anywhere from $28 million to $60 million. (Namath's first deal was $427,000 -- not inflation adjusted, but even with that, the numbers aren't close.)
 ''If I were the Jets,'' said Kriegel, a columnist for Foxsports.com, ''I'd take comfort in the fact that he did the GQ spread and he didn't feel any false modesty.''
 That's one small step to glamour.
 See the GQ spread here.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN THE HUDDLE: Mark Sanchez finds glamour. Next up, success? (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARTER SMITH/GQ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); WRITERS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); PORNOGRAPHY (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (51%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (83%); NEW YORK JETS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



624 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''Sustaining some form of the industry contributes to our status as a fashion capital of the world.'' 
 Yeohlee Teng, clothing designer, on New York's garment center, which is shrinking as most production has moved elsewhere.
 ''If you're not flexible right now, you're simply being silly.''
 Nathan Turner, 36, an interior designer in Los Angeles, who hosted a Spring Bazaar with other designers who sold their wares and offered advice. During the recession, some designers are taking risks and changing what has been a very conservative business.
 ''I'm in a no-win situation at this point.''
 Richard Fix, of Toledo, who is facing foreclosure for a few thousand dollars in overdue taxes. Some homeowners owe their property taxes to private companies that charge double-digit interest and thousands of dollars in service fees.
 ''I see this as long overdue, very much so. It's a healthy development.''
 Stephen Davies, chief executive of Javelin Wealth Management in Singapore. The Shanghai stock market has given up a third of its gains this year, which some see as a natural correction after a large buildup.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (72%); FORECLOSURE (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%); SINGAPORE (73%); CHINA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



625 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Past and Future Collide at a Yard Sale

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: MORENO VALLEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
In neighborhoods in economic distress, upheaval comes in bits and pieces, often only recognizable in total much later. But on an unusual Saturday morning this spring, the past and future of Beth Court, a troubled cul-de-sac here, converged in plain view at a multifamily yard sale.
 At 8:30 a.m., music was blaring from a house threatened with foreclosure, as children sold homemade baked goods to those who came to look over cribs the children had outgrown. A few doors away, the owner of a house to be sold at a bank auction was unloading a large still-life painting her husband had picked up in Mexico; she had never liked it anyway. Another neighbor, out of work since last summer but still keeping up with the mortgage payments, had his junker Jaguar up for grabs, too.
 Yard sales, much like strawberries and report cards, remain pleasant signals of summer's imminent arrival. But for Beth Court, a block of eight houses that has been shaken by the recession and the foreclosure crisis and that The New York Times has visited since January, this sale was in a way also a moment of planned anxiety, when life's woes were willingly exposed in exchange for cash. 
 It was a moment of surprise too, when the block's newest residents -- or soon to be -- made an inaugural visit to their new home. Just before 10 a.m., a dark car pulled into the driveway at No. 11066, a corner home with a big window that had been empty since it was foreclosed upon nine months earlier.
 ''Who is it?'' one neighbor asked, as heads turned toward two men and a woman emerging from the car.
 ''I hope it's a family,'' she continued. ''I wonder if she's pregnant?''
 The newcomers, Steven Schneider and his extended family, represented unwanted change and uncertainty, and there was some sense on Beth Court that they were profiting from the neighborhood's undoing by picking up their home at a fire sale price. Sprawled on the yards around the new arrivals were reminders of the hard times -- sweaters, sewing kits missing a few spools of thread, a treadmill and a dress someone wore for confirmation.
 Still it was impossible not to herald their arrival, too. The Schneiders' three-bedroom house had become an eyesore. Vandals once broke in and smashed a window. The lawn was sapped. Home values around it had plummeted, and it was not the only empty house on the block.
 In Beth Court's familiar togetherness, a feature that neighbors have always taken pride in, there was a peculiar mix of trepidation and relief.
 ''Well, you never want to see an empty house on the block,'' said Connie Hanson, who lives at the entrance to Beth Court on the adjoining street and takes nightly walks around the block. ''I just hope there isn't anything transient about them. We've had that problem on the block before.''
 Mr. Schneider, who had been living in a mobile home in nearby San Bernardino, attracted the curious as he stood surveying the block, awaiting the home inspector. 
 ''We've been looking for months,'' said Mr. Schneider, who put together a down payment of $30,000 on the $148,000 home with the help of a nephew, Timothy Hughes. Mr. Schneider and his fiancee would live in one bedroom, he explained, Mr. Hughes in another, and Mr. Schneider's elderly parents would take the third bedroom. 
 ''The prices were right here, and the interest rates are great,'' said Mr. Schneider, standing in the midmorning sun. ''I think we're buying at the right moment.''
 A small ring of houses in this city 60 miles east of Los Angeles, Beth Court is indicative of the foreclosure crisis that has rocked much of Southern California and the nation. Here in Moreno Valley, a city of 190,000 built on the construction boom of the past three decades, the pain has been particularly acute: 5 of every 100 houses went belly up last year. Of the eight homes on Beth Court, four have been foreclosed on at some point, and the owners of two more are in trouble. 
 But the spoils of the foreclosure mess are houses on the cheap, making homeownership a possibility for many of those left behind during the boom times. For Mr. Schneider, Moreno Valley was out of reach just two years ago; now he was standing face to face with some of the very people losing their homes. 
 Yadira Burgueno, the woman selling the Mexican still life, knew the bank had begun to auction off her home. Eladio Soto, whose children were selling the baked goods, would soon sell his home at a huge loss. Olga Hernandez, who had been forced to leave her foreclosed home months earlier, was back that day with a pile of clothes to sell.
 But the mountain views remained. 
 ''It is beautiful,'' Mr. Schneider said of his new neighborhood. ''I'd be kicking myself in the rear if I didn't buy this house.''
 It was 11 a.m., the morning donuts from the yard sale were gone, and there was talk of whipping up a batch of margaritas. Mr. Schneider and his fiancee locked hands and made their way slowly down the block, with his nephew, Mr. Hughes, trailing behind. 
 They stopped in front of Ms. Sanchez's home, admiring the wares for sale. She and her husband were among the block's earliest residents when the houses were built in 1997.
 ''There's no return on the kids,'' Ms. Sanchez cracked, nodding in the general direction of her two daughters, 10 and 12. Mr. Schneider and his fiancee laughed lightly and wandered down the block. Ice broken.
 Next came Mr. Hughes, a Direct TV installer. 
 ''Hi, I'm the new neighbor,'' he said to Ms. Sanchez, who squinted up from her chair into the midday sun.
 ''Oh, so you're the new neighbor?'' she asked, somewhat baffled since she thought she had just met the newcomers. ''I'm Ellie. I live here. So is it just you are your wife?''
 ''No,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''Me and my uncle own the house. Well, we're in escrow.''
 ''Oh, two single guys. So that's going to be the party house, huh? Everyone on this block has kids. We are not the party houses.''
 ''No,'' said Mr. Hughes, taking his turn at bafflement. Beth Court was used to nuclear families. This would just be a little different.
 Though the Schneider-Hughes arrangement was new to the block, it is not uncommon in Riverside County, real estate agents say. Scores of people who have lost their homes are moving into large houses owned by relatives who need help paying the mortgage; others families have pulled together to buy their first house. 
 As the neighborhood tour continued and the clock hit noon, two of the block's casualties -- Ms. Hernandez and Ms. Burgueno -- took the scene in silently from a shared blanket. Ms. Hernandez had lost her four-bedroom home but has harbored fantasies about somehow getting it back. She returns regularly to the block where she raised three children, and participating in the yard sale was natural for her.
 Mr. Hughes peered into the window of Ms. Hernandez's house, still empty at that point, then walked across the street. He introduced himself to Adrian Blanco, who after months of unemployment was working with the bank to modify his mortgage and was deeply worried he might lose the house.
 In a big floppy hat, Mr. Blanco was washing his truck in the driveway. No yard sale for him. His belongings were down to essentials. 
 ''Nice truck,'' Mr. Hughes said. 
 ''Thank you,'' Mr. Blanco replied. ''It's a good one. I like it.''
 After waiting for the new neighbor to make his way along, Mr. Blanco said: ''The bank doesn't want to help me. I don't know what to do.''
 By 1 p.m., Mr. Schneider had made the rounds and was back in his driveway and getting ready to leave. But there was one important introduction left. The neighborhood's unofficial mayor, Ted Hanson, Connie's husband, came bounding from the adjoining street. 
 Mr. Hanson does not cotton to getting too involved in his neighbors' lives. But he was happy that an investor had not bought the house, as so often happens on blocks with multiple foreclosures. 
 ''This is way better,'' he said, glancing up the block toward an empty house. ''That lawn looks terrible. I might need to get over there and mow it myself.''
 By the time Mr. Schneider pulled out of the driveway, the afternoon sun was getting hot and the blankets on the front lawns were being folded up. The treadmill had sold, as had several bits of clothing, a toy here and there, and at least one crib. The still life remained. Its owner would be evicted several weeks later, just as Mr. Schneider and his family began settling in. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



626 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Don't Let the Stimulus Lose Its Spark

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University, is also co-director of the Paduano Seminar in Business Ethics at the Stern School of Business at New York University.

 BODY:
ENCOURAGING economic news has been reanimating the critics of President Obama's stimulus program. But heeding their admonition to end the program would be a grave mistake. We need more stimulus now, not less.
 Even if the economy is improving, it is still very weak. Another quarter-million jobs were lost last month, and even the most optimistic economists predict that it will be many more months, if not years, before robust employment growth resumes. Now we face an ominous new threat to recovery from sharp cuts in state and local government spending. 
 The more than $15 billion excised from California's budget last month was just a small fraction of recently announced cuts. Although some people object to the federal stimulus program on grounds that government spending is inherently inefficient, most recent state cuts have been for services widely viewed as essential. These cuts were mandated by laws meant to stop politicians from spending beyond their means. While such measures may be beneficial on balance, sharply reduced government spending is exactly what the economy doesn't need right now. 
 Through its legal authority to run deficits to stabilize the economy, the federal government can keep recovery on track by transferring revenue to states and cities. Of course, opponents of the original economic stimulus program have no desire to see it extended this way. Yet they haven't made a persuasive case. The flaws in their arguments don't rise to the absurd heights seen in recent town hall meetings on health care reform. But it is a difference in degree, not kind.
 Both proponents and opponents of the stimulus program agree that unemployment is high because aggregate spending levels are too low to create jobs for everyone. Where they disagree is about the remedy. Proponents believe that sharply higher government spending will hasten the downturn's end. Opponents say no. 
 Stimulus proponents begin with the observation that before late 2007, total spending was enough to support full employment. But then consumption, which had been inflated by home equity loans based on illusory housing prices, fell sharply, and it is likely to remain below 2007 levels indefinitely.
 That decline caused a parallel fall in investment, because most businesses already had the capacity to produce more than people wanted to buy. Here, too, spending is likely to remain depressed for many months. And with the economies of many other countries also in the doldrums, demand for American exports is unlikely to pick up the slack.
 The only remaining major component of aggregate demand is government spending. Stimulus proponents, following John Maynard Keynes, believe that increased government spending -- financed by borrowed funds or printing new money -- is the only way to bolster aggregate demand and end the downturn quickly. Recent results suggest that this strategy is working.
 In a recent column in Forbes magazine, the economist Lee Ohanian of the University of California, Los Angeles, a stimulus opponent, explained why he believes that increased government spending wouldn't help the situation. The problem, he says, is that ''the higher taxes on incomes or expenditures that ultimately accompany higher spending depress economic activity.'' Because the short-run stimulus program has been financed with borrowed money, not higher taxes, Mr. Ohanian must have in mind future taxes needed to pay off stimulus-related debt.
 His argument, and that of stimulus opponents generally, thus boils down to this striking contention: As the government spends borrowed funds, consumers will start to realize that the resulting debt spells higher taxes in the future, which will lead them to curtail their current spending. Those cuts will offset increased government spending, leaving no net stimulus. 
 Although there may be people who would actually spend less now to hedge against uncertain future tax bills, it's unlikely that you know any of them. As behavioral economists have been saying for decades, that's just not the way most people act. Hardly any consumers even know how big the national debt is, much less how it will affect future taxes.
 MORE important, there are good reasons for believing that stimulus spending will make people's future tax payments lower, not higher. Yes, government borrowing adds to the national debt. But if the stimulus also hastens the downturn's end, it will accelerate the growth of future incomes and tax revenue. In that case, the net effect would be to reduce future taxes, compared with what they would have been without the stimulus.
 And even if we run with the notion that stimulus spending will increase future taxes, it doesn't follow that consumers will cut back on spending now. After all, we know that most people already fail to save enough for their retirement. Why would they alter their behavior to hedge against uncertain future taxes?
 The recent state and local spending cuts are a major setback to the stimulus program, which many economists have argued was much too small to begin with. A small minority disagrees but has not offered persuasive arguments.
 The downturn threatens every goal we care about. Doing everything possible to limit state and local spending cuts will help end it faster. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (61%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (61%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); HOME PRICES (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



627 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 2718 words

HEADLINE: A New Gender Agenda

BYLINE: INTERVIEW by MARK LANDLER. 
Mark Landler is the diplomatic correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton staked her claim as an advocate for global women's issues in 1995, when, as first lady, she gave an impassioned speech at a United Nations conference in Beijing. As secretary of state, she pushed to create a new position, ambassador at large for global women's issues, and recruited Melanne Verveer, her former chief of staff, to fill it. And she has drawn attention to women at nearly every stop in her travels, most recently on an 11-day visit to Africa, during which, among other things, she went to eastern Congo to speak out against mass rape. Hours before leaving on that trip, Clinton discussed women's issues and the Obama administration's foreign policy for 35 minutes in her elegant seventh-floor office at the State Department. What follows is a condensed and edited version of our conversation.
 Q: In your confirmation hearing, you said you would put women's issues at the core of American foreign policy. But as you know, in much of the world, gender equality is not accepted as a universal human right. How do you overcome that deep-seated cultural resistance? 
 Clinton: You have to recognize how deep-seated it is, but also reach an understanding of how without providing more rights and responsibilities for women, many of the goals we claim to pursue in our foreign policy are either unachievable or much harder to achieve. 
 Democracy means nothing if half the people can't vote, or if their vote doesn't count, or if their literacy rate is so low that the exercise of their vote is in question. Which is why when I travel, I do events with women, I talk about women's rights, I meet with women activists, I raise women's concerns with the leaders I'm talking to.
 I happen to believe that the transformation of women's roles is the last great impediment to universal progress -- that we have made progress on many other aspects of human nature that used to be discriminatory bars to people's full participation. But in too many places and too many ways, the oppression of women stands as a stark reminder of how difficult it is to realize people's full human potential.
 Q: I'm curious about what priorities you're setting. Will the Obama administration have a signature issue -- sex trafficking or gender-based violence or maternal mortality or education for girls -- in the way that H.I.V./AIDS came to symbolize the Bush-administration strategy?
 Clinton: We are having as a signature issue the fact that women and girls are a core factor in our foreign policy. If you look at what has to be done, in some societies, it is a different problem than in others. In some of the societies where women are deprived of political and economic rights, they have access to education and health care. In other societies, they may have been given the vote, but girl babies are still being put out to die.
 So it's not one specific program, so much as a policy. When it comes to our global health agenda, maternal health is now part of the Obama administration's outreach. We're very proud of the work this country has done, through Pepfar, on H.I.V./AIDS [the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief was begun by George W. Bush in 2003]. We've moved from an understanding of how to deal with global AIDS to recognizing it's now a woman's disease, because women are the most vulnerable and often have no power to protect themselves. And it's increasingly younger women or even girls.
 But women die every minute from poor maternal health care. You know, H.I.V./AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria -- those are all, unfortunately, equal-opportunity killers. Maternal health is a woman's issue; it's a family issue; it's a child issue. And for the United States to say to countries that have very high maternal mortality rates, ''We care about the future of your children, and in order to do that, we care about the present of your women,'' is a powerful statement.
 Q: Do you have a point of view about what should come first: Do you empower women economically and then hope that they seize a political role for themselves? Or do you seek to give them more legal and political standing and hope that they can win a place in the economic sphere? 
 Clinton: That's a great question, because I think the historical record would show both routes have worked. Women were not particularly economically empowered when we finally included the right of women to vote in our Constitution. So women's rights were expanded in 1920, and that opened up a lot of doors to women to see themselves in different roles, including economic roles, outside the home.
 India's been a democracy for 60 years, and remarkably extended the vote to everyone, every caste, to both men and women equally. So women have been given the right to vote, but without economic empowerment, they didn't have the influence that their votes should have brought, which is why the government of India has made such a big point of extending economic and political opportunity equally to women.
 And when we visited SEWA, the Self-Employed Women's Association [in India], those women had the vote before they were born, but being economically empowered, being able to stand up for themselves inside their families, on the streets of their villages, is giving them a sense of autonomy and authority that just their vote couldn't have.
 Q: In your travels as secretary of state, you've focused heavily on the role of microlending. Is there a reason in these early days that you've tended to emphasize the economic over the political?
 Clinton: It's interesting: it's partly because of where I've gone. It's also because I've worked on microcredit since 1983, going back to Arkansas and projects that I worked on with my husband there.
 I am also struck by every international public-opinion poll I've ever seen, that the No. 1 thing most men and women want is a good job with a good income. It is at the core of the human aspiration to be able to support oneself, to give one's children a better future. Microenterprise is uniquely designed to empower women because -- through the trial and error of its development, going back to Muhammad Yunus's invention of it in Bangladesh -- women are much greater at investing in future goods than the men who have participated in microcredit have turned out to be. And they are also very reliable in paying back, because they are so eager to have that extra help and recognition that microcredit provides.
 So, I don't make a distinction between economic empowerment and political, social empowerment; I think it's fair to say both need to go hand in hand.
 Q: There are counterterrorism experts who have made the observation that countries that nurture terrorist groups tend to be the same societies that marginalize women. Do you see a link between your campaign on women's issues and our national security?
 Clinton: I think it's an absolute link. Part of the reason I have pursued it as secretary of state is because I see it in our national security interest. If you look at where we are fighting terrorism, there is a connection to groups that are making a stand against modernity, and that is most evident in their treatment of women.
 What does preventing little girls from going to school in Afghanistan by throwing acid on them have to do with waging a struggle against oppression externally? It's a projection of the insecurity and the disorientation that a lot of these terrorists and their sympathizers feel about a fast-changing world, where they turn on television sets and see programs with women behaving in ways they can't even imagine. The idea that young women in their own societies would pursue an independent future is deeply threatening to their cultural values.
 Q: Many of the countries where the abuses against women are most prevalent are also countries that have a vital strategic importance to the United States: Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, India. How can you aggressively advocate for women without jeopardizing those strategic relationships?
 Clinton: Well, in a number of these strategic relationships, there's a commitment to advancing the roles and rights of women. In India, the changes that have been made are remarkable. There are still tens of millions of very poor women, but women have assumed more and more responsibility; they are seen in public positions and increasingly economic ones, where their stature is accepted by society.
 When I meet with the Chinese leadership, as I just did in the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, they have women who are part of their leadership team, and women who are assuming greater and greater economic and political roles.
 Obviously, there's work to be done in both India and China, because the infanticide rate of girl babies is still overwhelmingly high, and unfortunately with technology, parents are able to use sonograms to determine the sex of a baby, and to abort girl children simply because they'd rather have a boy. And those are deeply set attitudes. But at the governmental level, there is a great deal of openness and commitment that I am seeing.
 In other societies where we have strategic security interests, it's a challenge to move the agenda forward in a way that includes women's issues. When we did our strategic review on Afghanistan, we said very clearly, We can't be all things to all people in Afghanistan. We have to focus on a few critical concerns. But one of them was the role of women, and women's participation in society.
 Q: Let me ask you one question about India, where we've just concluded a Strategic Dialogue agreement. I didn't notice too much emphasis on sex trafficking on your trip, even though it's clear India remains the world capital of sex trafficking. Can you make that case strenuously with the Indians at the same moment that we're trying to do so many other things with them?
 Clinton: Absolutely, and in fact, we do it every year with our annual report on trafficking in persons. It's a very high priority to me, and it is raised as part of the ongoing discussions that we have with many countries. In a democracy like India, there is a challenge of getting the word down to the local jurisdiction -- the local police, the local judges, the local authorities. But I have no doubt about the seriousness with which their government takes this issue.
 Q: Could some of the billions of dollars the United States has spent on military aid to Pakistan since 9/11 have been better spent on education and health care for girls and women?
 Clinton: Yes. The answer is yes, and in my meetings with then-President Musharraf in '03, '05, '07, in this country as well, I raised it all the time. 
 I remember visiting a village about 45 minutes outside of Lahore, when I was in Pakistan as first lady, and we met with a group of mothers and grandmothers in the village. And they wanted very much to have a school at the secondary level for their daughters, the way their sons did. But the school for their sons was not in the village, so the sons had to travel. No one could even imagine the daughters traveling outside their village to continue their education.
 And when I think about the extraordinarily accomplished Pakistanis in the professions, in medicine, in education, I think it is certainly the case that if Pakistan had invested more in the education of children so that poor families would not have sent their boys off to be educated by extremists, it might well have made a difference. And it still can, because that's part of our approach now.
 Q: Because it's also a question of how we allocate our resources.
 Clinton: That's right, and with the Kerry-Lugar/Berman bill[s] that provide aid for these kinds of purposes in Pakistan, we hope to try to make up for lost time. [These Senate and House bills are currently being finalized in Congress.] 
 Q: Gender-based violence is an enormous issue in much of Africa, and in places like Congo, rape, as you know, is an instrument of war. How can you, or anybody else, hope to combat that?
 Clinton:President Obama and I and the United States will not tolerate this continuation of wanton, senseless, brutal violence perpetrated against girls and women. We don't know exactly what we can do, but we are going to be delivering some aid and some ideas about how to better organize the communities to deal with it. We're going to sound the alarm that this is not all just unexpected and irrational. 
 These militias, which perpetrate a lot of these rapes and other horrific assaults on girls and women, are paid well, or realize the spoils of guarding the mines. Those mines, which are one of the great natural resources of the Congo, produce a lot of the materials that go into our cellphones and other electronics. There are tens of millions of dollars that go into these militias that, in effect, get translated into a sense of impunity that is then exercised against the weakest members of society.
 The ambassador for war crimes, Steve Rapp, has the distinction of being among the first international prosecutors to win a case on gender violence, and I specifically wanted him to take on this role, because I want to highlight this issue.
 Q: I've been at more than a few women's events with you overseas where the men in the audience drift off to their BlackBerrys or into a snooze after a few minutes. How do you change the mind-set, not just overseas but at home and in this building, that tends to view women's issues as a pink ghetto?
 Clinton: By making the arguments that I am making here -- that so-called women's issues are stability issues, security issues, equity issues. The World Bank and many other analyses have proved over and over again that where women are mistreated, where they are denied equal rights, you will find instability that very often serves as an incubator of extremism.
 A woman who is safe enough in her own life to invest in her children and see them go to school is not going to have as many children. The resource battles over water and land will be diminished. This is all connected. And it's an issue of how we take hard power and soft power, so called, and use it to advance not just American ends but, in advancing global progress, we are making the world safer for our own children. 
 Q: Last month in New Delhi, a young woman asked you an interesting question: How would you view the progress of women in both India and the United States? She pointed out that India elected a woman as prime minister within three decades of independence, while the U.S. had yet to elect a female president. Is there any lesson from your own presidential campaign that you can use to take to women elsewhere in the world?
 Clinton: Well, you've heard me talk about this in a lot of settings, from Japan to South Korea to Indonesia to India to Latin America [laughs]. It is one of the most common questions I'm asked, along with the question about how I can now work for and with President Obama, since he and I ran so vigorously against each other. It is clearly on young women's minds. And I find that both exciting and gratifying.
 My campaign for many millions of reasons gave a lot of heart to many young women. It is still the most common comment that people make to me: ''your campaign gave me courage'' or ''your campaign made a difference in my daughter's life'' or ''I went back to school because of your campaign.'' So, it is unfinished business, and young women know it is unfinished business.
 The vast majority of them will never run for political office in any country. But they may decide to seek an education that their family doesn't approve of, or move away for a job that is a little bit frightening to them, but which they feel they've got the skills to do. Or, you know, stand up and speak out against an injustice they see. And it is all of that ripple that is building and building -- and is unstoppable.
 I live for those moments where I see this woman stand up in SEWA -- this poor, uneducated woman -- and say, ''I am the president of SEWA; 1.1 million women voted.'' I mean, what a great statement that was from her. So, I get a lot of joy out of doing this work. I think it is so critically important, but it is also incredibly moving to see these individual lives changed because of some event or speech that you have no idea why it made an impression on them. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUVEN AFANADOR) (pg. MM40) CHART: 21 percent of young women surveyed in Ghana reported that their sexual initiation was by rape.(DATA SOURCE: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION, 2002)(pg. MM42) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (64%); SEX TRAFFICKING (50%); LITERACY RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (92%); GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



628 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: L.B.J. All the Way?

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- President Obama had not even taken office before supporters were etching his likeness onto Mount Rushmore as another Abraham Lincoln or the second coming of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
 Yet what if they got the wrong predecessor? What if Mr. Obama is fated to be another Lyndon B. Johnson instead?
 To be sure, such historical analogies are overly simplistic and fatally flawed, if only because each presidency is distinct in its own way. But the L.B.J. model -- a president who aspired to reshape America at home while fighting a losing war abroad -- is one that haunts Mr. Obama's White House as it seeks to salvage Afghanistan while enacting an expansive domestic program.
 In this summer of discontent for Mr. Obama, as the heady early days give way to the grinding battle for elusive goals, he looks ahead to an uncertain future not only for his legislative agenda but for what has indisputably become his war. Last week's elections in Afghanistan played out at the same time as the debate over health care heated up in Washington, producing one of those split-screen moments that could not help but remind some of Mr. Johnson's struggles to build a Great Society while fighting in Vietnam. 
 ''The analogy of Lyndon Johnson suggests itself very profoundly,'' said David M. Kennedy, the Stanford University historian. Mr. Obama, he said, must avoid letting Afghanistan shadow his presidency as Vietnam did Mr. Johnson's. ''He needs to worry about the outcome of that intervention and policy and how it could spill over into everything else he wants to accomplish.''
 By several accounts, that risk weighs on Mr. Obama these days. Mr. Kennedy was among a group of historians who had dinner with Mr. Obama at the White House earlier this summer where the president expressed concern that Afghanistan could yet hijack his presidency. Although Mr. Kennedy said he could not discuss the off-the-record conversation, others in the room said Mr. Obama acknowledged the L.B.J. risk.
 ''He said he has a problem,'' said one person who attended that dinner at the end of June, insisting on anonymity to share private discussions. ''This is not just something he can turn his back on and walk away from. But it's an issue he understands could be a danger to his administration.''
 Another person there was Robert Caro, the L.B.J. biographer who was struck that Mr. Johnson made some of his most fateful decisions about Vietnam in the same dining room. ''All I could think of when I was sitting there and this subject came up was the setting,'' he said. ''You had such an awareness of how things can go wrong.''
 Without quoting what the president said, Mr. Caro said it was clear Mr. Obama understood that precedent. ''Any president with a grasp of history -- and it seems to me President Obama has a deep understanding of history -- would have to be very aware of what happened in another war to derail a great domestic agenda,'' he said.
 Afghanistan, of course, is not exactly Vietnam. At its peak, the United States had about 500,000 troops in Vietnam, compared with about 68,000 now set for Afghanistan, and most of those fighting in the 1960s were draftees as opposed to volunteer soldiers. Vietnam, therefore, reached deeper into American society, touching more homes and involving more unwilling participants. But the politics of the two seem to evoke comparisons.
 Just as Mr. Johnson believed he had no choice but to fight in Vietnam to contain communism, Mr. Obama last week portrayed Afghanistan as the bulwark against international terrorism. ''This is not a war of choice,'' he told the Veterans of Foreign Wars at their convention in Phoenix. ''This is a war of necessity. Those who attacked America on 9/11 are plotting to do so again. If left unchecked, the Taliban insurgency will mean an even larger safe haven from which Al Qaeda would plot to kill more Americans.''
 But while many Americans once shared that view, polls suggest that conviction is fading nearly eight years into the war. The share of Americans who said the war in Afghanistan was worth fighting slipped below 50 percent in a survey released last week by The Washington Post and ABC News. A July poll by the New York Times and CBS News showed that 57 percent of Americans think things are going badly for the United States in Afghanistan, compared with 33 percent who think they are going well.
 That growing disenchantment in the countryside is increasingly mirrored in Washington, where liberals in Congress are speaking out more vocally against the Afghan war and newspapers are filled with more columns questioning America's involvement. The cover of the latest Economist is headlined ''Afghanistan: The Growing Threat of Failure.''
 Richard N. Haass, a former Bush administration official turned critic, wrote in The New York Times last week that what he once considered a war of necessity has become a war of choice. While he still supports it, he argued that there are now alternatives to a large-scale troop presence, like drone attacks on suspected terrorists, more development aid and expanded training of Afghan police and soldiers.
 His former boss, George W. Bush, learned first-hand how political capital can slip away when an overseas war loses popular backing. With Iraq in flames, Mr. Bush found little support for his second-term domestic agenda of overhauling Social Security and liberalizing immigration laws. L.B.J. managed to create Medicare and enact landmark civil rights legislation but some historians have argued that the Great Society ultimately stalled because of Vietnam.
 Mr. Obama has launched a new strategy intended to turn Afghanistan around, sending an additional 21,000 troops, installing a new commander, promising more civilian reconstruction help, shifting to more protection of the population and building up Afghan security forces. It is a strategy that some who study Afghanistan believe could make a difference.
 But even some who agree worry that time is running out at home, particularly if the strategy does not produce results quickly. Success is so hard to imagine that Richard Holbrooke, Mr. Obama's special representative for Afghanistan, this month came up with this definition: ''We'll know it when we see it.'' 
 The consequences of failure go beyond just Afghanistan. Next door is its volatile neighbor Pakistan, armed with nuclear weapons and already seething with radical anti-American elements.
 ''It could all go belly up and we could run out of public support,'' said Ronald E. Neumann, a former ambassador to Afghanistan and now president of the American Academy of Diplomacy. ''The immediate danger is we don't explain to Americans how long things take. I certainly get questions like, 'Is the new strategy turning things around? Is the civilian surge working?' We're not going to even get all of those people on the ground for months.''
 Others are not so sure that the new strategy will make a difference regardless of how much time it is given. No matter who is eventually declared the winner of last week's election in Afghanistan, the government there remains so plagued by corruption and inefficiency that it has limited legitimacy with the Afghan public. Just as America was frustrated with successive South Vietnamese governments, it has grown sour on Afghanistan's leaders with little obvious recourse.
 Lt. Col. Douglas A. Ollivant, a retired Army officer who worked on Iraq on the National Security Council staff first for Mr. Bush and then for Mr. Obama, said Afghanistan may be ''several orders of magnitude'' harder. It has none of the infrastructure, education and natural resources of Iraq, he noted, nor is the political leadership as aligned in its goals with those of America's leadership.
 ''We're in a place where we don't have good options and that's what everyone is struggling with,'' Colonel Ollivant said. ''Sticking it out seems to be a 10-year project and I'm not sure we have the political capital and financial capital to do that. Yet withdrawing, the cost of that seems awfully high as well. So we have the wolf by the ear.''
 And as L.B.J. discovered, the wolf has sharp teeth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TROUBLES: Presidents Johnson and Eisenhower in 1968. Helicopters in South Vietnam in 1971. Americans patrol in Afghanistan in April.(CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: BILL PUGLIANO
TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
U.S. ARMY
YOICHI R. OKAMOTO/LBJ LIBRARY COLLECTION) (WK1)
 DANGER ZONE: American soldiers, dropped by helicopter, patrol a volatile area about 9,000 feet up a mountain known as Sawtalo Sar in the Korengal Valley.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); VIETNAM WAR (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); VIET NAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



629 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Officials Of 2 Koreas Hold Talks In the South

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, sent a message of improving ties with South Korea through his high-level delegation, which met with the South's president, Lee Myung-bak, in Seoul on Sunday in the first major political meeting between the two Koreas in nearly two years, officials said. 
 During a 30-minute meeting, the North Korean delegation relayed Mr. Kim's ''verbal message regarding making progress in South-North cooperation,'' Lee Dong-kwan, Mr. Lee's chief spokesman, told reporters. ''To this, President Lee explained our government's consistent and firm policy toward North Korea and asked the delegates to relay his position to Chairman Kim.''
 The South Korean leader stressed the need for dialogue, his spokesman said.
 The North Korean delegation was led by Kim Ki-nam, a secretary of the North's ruling Workers' Party, and Kim Yang-gon, the North's intelligence chief, who also handles relations with South Korea. The two are among Kim Jong-il's most trusted aides.
 Unification Minister Hyun In-taek of South Korea, who met with Kim Yang-gon for 80 minutes on Saturday, had earlier said he hoped that the North Korean delegates' meeting with President Lee ''will become a turning point in South-North Korean relations.''
 The North Korean delegation flew to Seoul on Friday to pay its respects to former President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea. Mr. Kim, a champion of inter-Korean reconciliation who in 2000 met Kim Jong-il, died Tuesday. The funeral was set for Sunday.
 The trip was widely seen as an opportunity for Kim Jong-il to reach out to Seoul. 
 After months of raising tensions with nuclear and missile tests, North Korea has appeared to be shifting its tone in recent weeks. 
 North Korean officials met with former President Bill Clinton in Pyongyang, the North's capital, on Aug. 4, and then released two American journalists and a South Korean worker, all of whom had been held in the North for months on charges of committing hostile acts against the North. 
 Last week, North Korea lifted restrictions on cross-border traffic with South Korea.
 In a separate meeting on Saturday with South Korean politicians and scholars, Kim Yang-gon suggested more economic ties between the two Koreas, voicing hopes of shipping some of the North's rich minerals to the South, Yonhap, a South Korean news agency, reported, quoting people who attended the meeting.
 Relations between the North and the South have cooled since Mr. Lee took office in February 2008. 
 Mr. Lee vowed not to provide aid to the North unless it made concrete progress in dismantling its nuclear weapons program. The North lashed out by cutting off dialogue and calling him a ''traitor.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); POLITICS (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WRITERS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (93%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (91%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



630 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 603 words

PERSON: Adrian DeWind 

HEADLINE: Adrian DeWind, 95, Influential Tax Expert

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Adrian W. DeWind, an adviser to presidents and governors on tax law and an influential advocate in the human rights and nuclear nonproliferation movements, died on Aug. 7 at his home in Manhattan. He was 95.
 His death was confirmed by his daughter Penny DeWind.
 For more than 35 years, starting in 1948, Mr. DeWind was a partner and head of the tax law department at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, a New York law firm. But it was his federal government service that first brought him distinction in the field of tax law. 
 In 1951 and 1952, Mr. DeWind was chief counsel to a House Ways and Means subcommittee that found corruption in the Bureau of Internal Revenue, now the Internal Revenue Service. The investigation, which was headline news for months, led to the resignation or dismissal of high-level officials and to a major overhaul of the bureau.
 Mr. DeWind went into government service in 1942 at the behest of Randolph E. Paul, then the general counsel to the Treasury Department, and helped draft legislation for the financing of the war effort. In 1948, Mr. DeWind followed his mentor to what was then known as Paul, Weiss, Wharton & Garrison. (He was counsel to the House subcommittee while a partner at the firm.)
 Over the next 40 years, Mr. DeWind served on tax policy commissions set up by Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson and Govs. Hugh L. Carey and Mario M. Cuomo of New York. In 1976, while Mr. DeWind was president of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, he led a task force on taxation for the Municipal Assistance Corporation, set up to steer New York City out of the financial crisis of the 1970s. The task force created a stir when it issued a report saying that the city's tax structure was ''counterproductive, fostering an exodus of business, industry and individuals.''
 But Mr. DeWind's interests extended far beyond tax codes to an extensive list of civic activities. He was chairman of the Natural Resources Defense Council, a nonprofit group that focuses on environmental issues and arms control, from 1980 to 1992. As chairman of the council, Mr. DeWind signed an agreement in 1986 with the Soviet Academy of Sciences under which American and Soviet scientists established on-site monitoring of nuclear underground testing in both countries.
 ''It showed that the U.S. and Soviet governments could work together on nuclear verification,'' John H. Adams, the council's founding director, said in a telephone interview, ''and as a direct result of this work,'' President Bill Clinton signed a comprehensive test ban treaty in 1996.
 Mr. DeWind was also a founder of Human Rights Watch. Kenneth Roth, the organization's executive director, said Mr. DeWind traveled the world to monitor abuses.
 Mr. DeWind also served on the boards of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the National Coalition Against Censorship and the Lawyers Alliance for Nuclear Arms Control. He taught at the New York University School of Law from 1947 to 1955. 
 Adrian William DeWind was born in Chicago on Dec. 1, 1913, one of two sons of Norman and Ethel DeWind. His father was a mechanical engineer. Mr. DeWind graduated from Grinnell College, in Iowa, in 1934, and from Harvard Law School in 1937.
 Besides his daughter Penny, he is survived by his brother, Norman; another daughter, Susan DeWind; two sons, John and Josh; seven grandchildren; and his companion, Judith Gutman. His wife, the former Joan Mosenthal, a psychiatric social worker who was a founder of an organization devoted to the protection of butterflies and other invertebrates, died in 1997. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adrian W. DeWind (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUDITH MARA GUTMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DISMISSALS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



631 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2737 words

HEADLINE: Funny, He Doesn't Look Like a Rock Star

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
MARTY BANDIER, 68, chief executive of the music publishing giant Sony/ATV, is leaning back, hands locked across his midsection, as he takes stock of Mike Posner, a 21-year-old college student sitting in front of him in a black T-shirt and black jeans. Mr. Bandier is deciding whether the time has come to cut a deal with him.
 Sony already has a recording contract with Mr. Posner, and Mr. Bandier is weighing whether he should lock up publishing rights as well, which would allow the company to collect fees every time Mr. Posner's songs are played on the radio, in movies or in commercials, or are downloaded as a ring tone on phones. 
 Mr. Posner yanks a computer from his backpack, plugs it into Mr. Bandier's stereo system and hits ''play.'' A deep, pounding bass shakes the floor and the windows vibrate. Mr. Posner sings along and waves his hands in the air while Mr. Bandier bounces up and down in his chair. 
 ''I've been singing for a year and a half,'' Mr. Posner says when the music ends. ''And I recorded that song in my mother's basement.'' Mr. Bandier, beaming, signs Mr. Posner that very day.
 Constantly courting and corralling talent, Mr. Bandier -- tan, stout, carefully coiffed, and, it must be said, a gray-haired senior in a notoriously youth-oriented trade -- is a music industry veteran at center stage in one of the business's few bright spots these days: music publishing.
 It's no secret that the music industry has been in a tailspin for the better part of a decade. After peaking in 1999, music sales have dropped steadily, thanks in large part to consumers freely downloading and sharing songs and albums.
 So it's come to pass that after decades of playing second fiddle to the much bigger and brighter stars in the industry's recording business, music publishing is on a roll. It is, as its executives like to say, a business of pennies and nickels, but that small change generates $3 billion in annual revenue, throws off enviably predictable streams of cash and has caught the eye of private equity firms and large institutional investors who are snapping up catalogs of stars like Frank Sinatra and Madonna. 
 Trying to decide whether an album will be a huge hit or a major miss is expensive and risky for record companies. Music publishing, on the other hand, is reliable, tethered to the constellation of tunes that envelop us -- on radio and television, and in movies, malls, elevators and greeting cards. 
 Sony/ATV Music Publishing is a joint venture created in 1995 between the Sony Corporation and trusts formed by the late pop giant Michael Jackson. But it also has deals with the likes of Neil Diamond, Bob Dylan, Taylor Swift and Bon Jovi's Richie Sambora. 
 But the jewel in Mr. Bandier's crown is Sony/ATV's ownership of the rights to more than 250 Beatles songs. Next month, the digitally remastered Beatles albums will be released the same day as the introduction of ''The Beatles: Rock Band,'' an interactive video game that will allow players to relive some of the group's greatest performances.
 ''The fourth quarter will belong to the Beatles,'' Mr. Bandier predicts. 
 Less clear, however, is what will happen to the Sony/ATV venture itself. While Sony executives and lawyers for Mr. Jackson's estate say they see no changes afoot, the structure of the partnership would be altered if the estate put its stake on the block. 
 Sony would have first-refusal rights if that happens, and company executives say they would be interested in increasing their holdings. In the interim, the playing field is still Mr. Bandier's, which his supporters say they find comforting.
 ''I didn't think guys like him existed in the industry anymore. The reality is, it used to be about the songs, and the time we're living in now, it's more about a quick hit,'' says Wyclef Jean, the hip-hop producer and musician. ''For Marty, it's more about the music. He'll come to your show, see the vibe that you're on. He actually studies every artist to see the range of what they can do.''
 Doing business the way Mr. Bandier does requires a fat bankroll. And some in the music industry wonder whether Mr. Bandier -- who has a reputation for paying top dollar for talent -- still has room to roam, given financial woes now facing the Sony Corporation. 
 Sitting in his Manhattan office, Mr. Bandier waves his hands in the air, dismissing that thought, as well as naysayers who complain that he has turned Sony/ATV into a stable of proven talent that avoids taking risks on lesser-known musicians and singers.
 He acknowledges that it's easier to sign proven acts than unknowns because, after all, ''at the end of the day, music publishers shouldn't be in the business of risk.'' But he's always willing to roll the dice, he says. 
 ''The most difficult part of the business today is deciding whether I should commit the dollars to signing an unknown or wait until the artist has a hit,'' he offers. ''Then there are guys like Mike Posner. I would bet on him for the future and today.''
 A COMPUTER video featuring a lithe blonde silently dancing, smiling and shaking her shiny, luxurious locks in homage to a hair product awaits John Campanelli's touch. It's his job to find a song that will bond viewers to this nascent commercial.
 First he tries ''I'm Coming Out,'' which was a chart-topping hit for Diana Ross. Everyone in the room nods in approval. Then he subs into the video another Diana Ross song, ''Upside Down.'' Another good fit. ''Diana Ross works really well in hair commercials,'' Mr. Campanelli says.
 Perched on a nearby couch, Mr. Bandier suggests ''The Sweet Escape'' by Gwen Stefani and Akon, who is one of Sony/ATV's writers. The song comes on the screen and it's clear that Mr. Bandier likes it but doesn't love it. On to the next song.
 Finding the right tune can mean money in the bank, but the fees that publishing companies charge for music threaded into movies and TV shows vary widely. A local nightly news program may pay $1,000 to $4,000 for some horn-and-drum opening music and use it whenever it wants. The same goes for background, mood-setting music on a daytime soap opera. But using a song just once in a major motion picture can cost $25,000 to $1 million. Companies like J. Crew even pay fees for music played on their Web sites.
 Several years ago, the Gap brand did a deal that gave it the rights to use music from ''West Side Story'' in three 30-second commercials featuring dancers on a rooftop, said Freddie Gershon, an entertainment lawyer and a music industry veteran. For the use of the music for 90 days, Gap paid ''substantially over a million dollars,'' he said. Gap declined to comment. 
 When Mr. Bandier arrived at Sony/ATV in 2007, the company was more passive about the publishing business than some of its rivals, says Rob Wiesenthal, chief financial officer of the Sony Corporation of America. It was Mr. Wiesenthal and Sony's C.E.O., Howard Stringer, who hired Mr. Bandier from EMI Publishing, which Mr. Bandier had built into a giant music publisher.
 Pointing to a gray, four-inch-thick binder on a coffee table in his office, Mr. Wiesenthal says that this is how Sony/ATV used to market its songs -- by sending the binder, which listed every song it controls, to advertising agencies.
 After that, publishing executives pretty much sat around and waited for the phone to ring. Mr. Wiesenthal credits Mr. Bandier with taking a much more aggressive approach in bringing Sony/ATV's songs to a bigger, broader audience by dealing directly with television and film producers and ad agencies. 
 Consider ''American Idol.'' When Mr. Bandier arrived at Sony/ATV, he said nobody oversaw how songs were pitched to the show's producers for contestants to perform. A huge missed opportunity, he reckoned. 
 ''Every time you have a song played on the show you can get sync and performance fees. That's a nice chunk of change,'' Mr. Bandier says. ''Plus, there are opportunities for more fees from cast albums, if they perform one of your songs, or if they sing the song on tour. Those pennies really add up.''
 Sony/ATV also had its sacred cow, the Beatles' catalog. Mr. Bandier says that when he arrived, the policy was that the Beatles' songs were off-limits to reality shows. (Sony/ATV holds the rights to the Beatles' music and lyrics. Apple Corps Ltd. -- controlled by the remaining Beatles and widows -- owns the names and likenesses and has approval rights for the master recordings, while EMI Records controls the master recordings themselves. Longstanding disputes have kept the Beatles' music from being downloadable online.)
 Determined to have the Beatles heard on the ''American Idol'' stage, Mr. Bandier called the show's producers with an offer shortly after taking the helm at Sony/ATV: Rather than licensing out one or two songs to the show, would they be interested in devoting an entire show to just Beatles' songs?
 They were. In early 2008, the show featured not one but two consecutive weeks of contestants belting out songs from the Beatles catalog. 
 ''It's the Beatles man, come on,'' says Randy Jackson, one of the ''American Idol'' judges. ''For the show, it was huge.''
 Still, for all of Mr. Bandier's moves, Sony/ATV's publishing business isn't big enough to move the revenue needle very far for the Sony Corporation, which had $79 billion in revenue and $1.5 billion in operating cash flow in the fiscal year ended in March. The publishing business pulls in around $500 million in revenue and $100 million to $130 million in operating cash flow, according to individuals with direct knowledge of the accounts who requested anonymity because Sony doesn't publicly disclose the figures.
 But Sony executives say music publishing has greater import to the business than just the bottom line. After all, Sony is, one of the few media companies that house publishing, recording, film and video gaming (with its PlayStation platform) under one roof. 
 Last year, for instance, a Sony/ATV-signed band, We Are Scientists, had a song from an album featured in a commercial for Sony's electronic gadgets.
 ''We heard they were doing this ad and we said, 'Have you heard this song?' '' Mr. Wiesenthal recalls. ''That's synergy.''
 RABID music fans take note: Marty Bandier, even after all of the years behind him, can still be star-struck. Witness how he shows off a video he took of Paul McCartney in concert in July at Citi Field in New York. As in most hand-held videos, the image is shaky, the music blurry and the sound quality elusive.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Bandier is awed. He stares at the screen, laughing and pointing to it. ''Wow! Look at those fireworks. Can you believe it?'' he yelps, glancing over his shoulder to see whether his audience appreciates Mr. McCartney. ''Isn't he great?''
 It is that ''kid in the musical candy store'' quality that endears Mr. Bandier to his writers and artists but has also played a big role in his success.
 ''I was recently with him and he was talking about being in the studio with the producer for Lady Gaga, who is with Sony/ATV publishing,'' says Del Bryant, president and C.E.O. of Broadcast Music Inc., a royalty collection agency. ''He was so excited to be in the studio and hearing what she and her producer were doing, and he was planning on going to one of her shows that night. He was acting like a 20-year-old fan.''
 Mr. Bandier's musical roots were planted in Queens, where his mother forced him to take piano lessons -- a task he hated because it interfered with his football and baseball games.
 His parents owned a business delivering residential heating oil, and he was a good student, skipping, he says, the fifth and eighth grades. He met his first wife, Denise LeFrak, the daughter of the housing developer Samuel J. LeFrak, at Syracuse University and later attended Brooklyn Law School.
 His first brush with the music publishing business occurred in the early 1970s, when a partner at the law firm where he was working walked into his office and looked at his longish hair. A client of the firm was interested in buying a publishing company, and the partners wanted someone who looked as if he would fit in on the music scene. 
 Later, when he was in-house counsel to his father-in-law's company, the LeFrak Organization, Mr. Bandier, Mr. LeFrak and Charles Koppelman started their own small recording and publishing company. It produced songs for Barbra Streisand, Ms. Ross and Dolly Parton and collected royalties when their songs were performed.
 WHEN Mr. Bandier divorced Ms. LeFrak in the early 1980s, he and Mr. Koppelman formed their own music publishing company. The two began acquiring small catalogs and had the inside track to acquire ATV, which held the rights to the Beatles' music, in the mid-1980s -- until Michael Jackson's lawyers swooped in and nabbed the company with a $47.5 million bid. 
 Bruised from losing out on the ATV catalog, Mr. Bandier and Mr. Koppelman and a third partner, Stephen Swid, did a deal that put their company, then called SBK Entertainment World, on the map. They acquired CBS's music publishing business for $125 million.
 ''That was a dazzling acquisition because it changed the way everyone in the financial community viewed the value of owning musical copyrights,'' says Mr. Gershon, the entertainment lawyer.
 The three dazzled the music publishing industry a few years later by nearly tripling their money when they sold their company to Thorn-EMI of Britain for around $337 million. 
 ''I never wanted to sell,'' Mr. Bandier recalls, wistfully, as he ticks off some of the songs that he and his partners once controlled. ''You can't duplicate 'The Wizard of Oz,' the 'Rocky' theme.'' 
 Once he joined EMI, however, Mr. Bandier carved out a new identity for himself as a solo act and began building his own empire in music publishing.
 He excelled at ''collecting autographs,'' or signing big names onto publishing deals, says David Johnson, the C.E.O. of a competing publishing firm, Warner/Chappell Music. ''He's charming, he's smart and he tends not to stop until he collects the autograph,'' Mr. Johnson says.
 Among Mr. Bandier's biggest coups at EMI was acquiring the Jobete catalog of Motown hits from Berry Gordy. ''Everyone looked at that catalog, and my recollection was that Mr. Gordy was kind of a reluctant seller,'' Mr. Johnson says. ''I would suspect there was a long courtship of Berry Gordy by Mr. Bandier. But that was a huge prize.''
 More importantly, after nabbing the catalog, Mr. Bandier squeezed more profits from it by aggressively tracking down publishing fees, industry analysts say.
 ''Marty figured out how to generate more publisher performance royalties for each play on radio than what was previously earned by the original publisher,'' said Barry Massarsky, a music industry consultant who has done work for Sony/ATV and its competitors.
 In late 2005, Mr. Bandier asked EMI to sell him its publishing unit. The company declined and Mr. Bandier resigned in the fall of 2006. A few months later, he took over as head of Sony/ATV after striking a deal that gave him a piece of the company's profits.
 In his first few months at Sony/ATV, Mr. Bandier reconfirmed his big-spender reputation with two big acquisitions made at the top of the market. 
 First, in a widely bid auction, he paid $370 million to acquire Famous Music, which was Paramount Pictures' publishing group and owned music from ''The Godfather'' and classic songs like ''Moon River'' and ''Silver Bells.'' Its current writers and artists include Shakira and Akon.
 In a deal valued at around $40 million, Mr. Bandier also acquired the songs of Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, who wrote and produced ''Jailhouse Rock'' and ''Hound Dog'' for Elvis Presley and ''Yakety Yak'' and ''Charlie Brown'' for the Coasters.
 The acquisitions came just as the broader economy began tanking. And Sony's sales declines in its much bigger gaming and electronics divisions have prompted the speculation in the industry that Mr. Bandier's wings have been clipped and that he's no longer free to make splashy acquisitions.
 Perish the thought, Mr. Bandier says.
 ''I don't think the checkbook is closed here,'' he says. ''If a great catalog would become available, I believe Sony would step up. I would trek to Japan myself if that's what it took to get the deal done.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marty Bandier, 68, chief of Sony/ATV, is a guru in a hot business: music publishing. A joint venture of Sony and trusts formed by Michael Jackson, it owns rights to more than 250 Beatles songs. (pg. BU1)
Marty Bandier, second from right, at a demonstration of the interactive video game, ''The Beatles: Rock Band.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Bandier, right, with Randy Jackson from ''American Idol'' left, and the singer Ben E. King at a reception at the Sony Club in Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY BUSACCA/GETTY IMAGES, FOR SONY ATV MUSIC PUBLISHING)(pg. BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC PUBLISHING (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (86%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); PUBLISHING (58%)

COMPANY: SONY/ATV MUSIC PUBLISHING INC (84%); SONY CORP (84%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (84%); SNE (NYSE) (84%); 6758 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (84%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%)

PERSON: MADONNA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



632 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: On Health, Daschle Has Ear Of White House and Industry

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Six months have passed since the morning when Tom Daschle, the former Senate Democratic leader, under fire for not paying certain taxes, called President Obama in his study off the Oval Office to withdraw his nomination as health secretary and reform czar.
 But these days it often seems as if Mr. Daschle never left the picture. With unrivaled ties on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, he talks constantly with top White House advisers, many of whom previously worked for him.
 He still speaks frequently to the president, who met with him as recently as Friday morning in the Oval Office. And he remains a highly paid policy adviser to hospital, drug, pharmaceutical and other health care industry clients of Alston & Bird, the law and lobbying firm.
 Now the White House and Senate Democratic leaders appear to be moving toward a blueprint for overhauling the health system, centered on nonprofit insurance cooperatives, that Mr. Daschle began promoting two months ago as a politically feasible alternative to a more muscular government-run insurance plan. 
 It is an idea that happens to dovetail with the interests of many Alston & Bird clients, like the insurance giant UnitedHealth and the Tennessee Hospital Association. And it is drawing angry cries of accommodation from more liberal House Democrats bent on including a public insurance plan.
 Friends and associates of Mr. Daschle say the interests of Alston & Bird's clients have no influence on his views. They say he sees no conflict in advising private clients on the one hand and advising the White House on the other, because he offers the same assessment to everyone: Though he has often said that he favors a government-run insurance option, the Senate will not pass it.
 ''The message I deliver to labor unions and business leaders is the same one I share with doctors, hospitals and insurance companies,'' Mr. Daschle wrote in a brief e-mailed statement. ''I do not tailor my views to any specific group or client.''
 Mr. Daschle is not registered as a lobbyist and recently told U.S. News and World Report that he preferred to describe himself as a ''resource'' to those in government and industry. 
 ''I'd like to be a resource to my former colleagues, to the extent that I can, to the administration, to the stakeholders and to people interested in just kind of knowing how this is all going to play out,'' he said. ''I am most comfortable with the word resource.''
 White House officials say they appreciate his help. ''He is one of a number of people that provides outside advice to the White House, and the president greatly appreciates that advice and Tom's friendship,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, a spokesman for the White House who previously worked for Mr. Daschle. Mr. Pfeiffer added that the former senator was ''a recognized expert on health reform who knows more about the legislative process than just about anyone.'' 
 Critics, though, say his ex officio role gives Alston & Bird's health care clients privileged insights into the policy process. They say Mr. Daschle's multiple advisory roles illustrate the kind of coziness with the lobbying world that Mr. Obama vowed to end. If he had been confirmed as health secretary, Mr. Daschle would have been subject to strict transparency and ethics rules.
 His position, some liberals say, raises at least an appearance of a conflict of interest. ''I hope the president can make a decision based on what the country wants, not what a handful of Daschle's clients want,'' said Representative Lynn Woolsey of California, a leader of the progressive caucus. 
 Clients of Alston & Bird say Mr. Daschle advises them, sometimes indirectly through the firm's registered lobbyists, about the personalities of his former colleagues, as well as strategies to achieve their policy goals. 
 ''He would tell us, 'Make sure you present the value proposition of home care with as great detail as you can, so Congress understands that home care is part of the solution rather than a cost to be cut,' '' said William A. Dombi, a lawyer at the National Association for Home Care and Hospice. 
 Some of the health overhaul bills would make deep cuts in Medicare payments for home health services, but Mr. Daschle has instead argued for an increase. And though he does not lobby, he took that message to Capitol Hill last month, giving a paid speech at a meeting for Congressional staff convened by a group of home health care equipment concerns. 
 ''My mother's quality of life is a hundred times better given the fact that she can live at home rather than be institutionalized at 86,'' Mr. Daschle told the audience, according to industry newsletters. 
 Representative Jason Altmire, a Pennsylvania Democrat who spoke alongside Mr. Daschle, praised the former senator but said it was inevitable that his dual roles would draw criticism, especially ''given the high profile this president has given to trying to show some distance from the lobbying business.''
 Mr. Altmire added, ''That makes it even more difficult for him to be involved.''
 Mr. Daschle does not shrink from his leading role in the debate. Speaking at a hospital industry conference last week, for example, he accepted billing as ''the architect of President Obama's health care plan.''
 Before such industry groups, Mr. Daschle can sometimes cheer on their lobbying efforts, as he did at a meeting on Aug. 8 of chain drugstore executives when he urged them to push lawmakers to raise certain Medicaid reimbursements.
 ''This is a message that I hope each and every one of you will take to your member of Congress,'' he said. ''There is no more critical time to do that.''
 He both recommends and predicts an incremental approach.
 ''We are not going to see this happen overnight,'' Mr. Daschle told a biotechnology trade group in May. ''It can't. It is too big a shift in the economy.'' If the legislation can begin to ''ramp up'' coverage for all, health information technology and some cost controls, he said, ''we will have succeeded.''
 He often enumerates what he considers areas of political momentum as well as points of disagreement, including the government insurance plan. ''There is no consensus on whether there ought to be a public option,'' he told the drugstore executives.
 Last week he told the hospital executives, ''There is virtually no support among Republican members for a public option, and that remains an unresolved element of this debate.''
 Senate Democratic leaders have recently said they concur it is unlikely to pass.
 Mr. Daschle's friendship with the president goes back to Mr. Obama's first days in the Senate. An early and important backer of Mr. Obama's presidential campaign, Mr. Daschle also sent a steady stream of former aides to Mr. Obama's Senate office and White House staff. Mr. Obama's senior adviser Pete Rouse was Mr. Daschle's chief of staff. Jeanne Lambrew, a top White House adviser on health care reform, was a co-author of Mr. Daschle's 2008 book, ''Critical: What We Can Do About the Healthcare Crisis.'' 
 Mr. Daschle's cabinet nomination was done in by the disclosure that he had failed to pay taxes on the use of a friend's car and driver while making millions advising Alston & Bird's clients. After he withdrew his nomination, he threw himself into preparing a bipartisan proposal for health care overhaul with two former Republican Senate leaders: Bob Dole, a colleague at Alston & Bird, and Howard H. Baker Jr., now at another law and lobbying firm. Their proposal, released in June, was among the first to spell out the idea of helping states establish health insurance ''co-op plans with consumer boards.'' 
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and one of Mr. Daschle's closest friends, began pitching the idea at about the same time and has become its champion. Mr. Conrad is among six members of the Senate Finance Committee working on their own compromise proposal that aides say looks increasingly like the Daschle-Dole-Baker report.
 As a backstop, their plan provided that if state co-ops or other programs failed to meet certain cost and coverage goals in five years, the president could create a public plan on a fast track without threat of a Senate filibuster. 
 That feature, known as a trigger, was briefly acknowledged as another possible compromise by the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel. Though it was little discussed, Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine and one of the Finance Committee's group of six, has recently expressed support for the concept, and committee aides say the idea is under consideration.
 To address doctors' fears of lawsuits, Mr. Daschle and his collaborators proposed a ''safe harbor'' from legal liability for doctors who follow certain rules. Mr. Obama took up the idea in a mid-June speech to the American Medical Association.
 After Mr. Daschle left the Oval Office on Friday, a White House spokesman described their meeting as a ''quick check-in'' on the overhaul process. The spokesman said the two ''agreed to stay in touch over the coming weeks and months.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(A1)
 Tom Daschle, left, with Senators Christopher J. Dodd and Barbara A. Mikulski, at a news conference on health care last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)(A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); INSURANCE (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); HEALTH CARE (74%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: ALSTON & BIRD LLP (83%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



633 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Man Talk

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Kurt Andersen's survey of ''Pop Culture in the Age of Obama'' (Aug. 9) takes his readers into an unremitting male territory. Nearly all of his references concern men and boys -- Michael Jackson, Michael Jordan, Tiger Woods, Spider-Man, Thomas Friedman, Stephen Colbert and Harry Potter. Tellingly, Andersen drops only the boy wizard's name -- not that of the female wiz who thought him up, J. K. Rowling. Along with Michelle Obama and her daughters, the only women mentioned in the entire essay are Sheryl Crow (because of her inclusion on the president's iPod playlist) and Oprah Winfrey. 
 There are two references to Winfrey. In the second she is duly mentioned in Andersen's recitation of black pop icons (which doesn't acknowledge Aretha Franklin or the Williams sisters). The first, though, is biting and comes in an aside concerning her endorsement of a book by Jonathan Franzen and its effect on its sales. Andersen equates Winfrey to the Ayatollah Khomeini (whose fatwa against Salman Rushdie also happened to increase book sales) and derides each as a ''cult leader.''
 Even in the Age of Obama, women remain marginalized and a black woman with influence -- political, economic, cultural and, yes, spiritual -- still strikes fear in the hearts of some men.
 JANE CAPUTI Highland Beach, Fla. The writer is a professor of women's studies at Florida Atlantic University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MEN (78%); WRITERS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); BOOK SALES (67%); CULTS & SECTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); OPRAH WINFREY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); TIGER WOODS (56%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); STEPHEN COLBERT (56%); J K ROWLING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009



634 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IRAQI MILITARY SHOWS VIDEO OF 'CONFESSION' TO BOMBINGS
 The military said a former police officer confessed to planning last week's suicide bombings aimed at government buildings, which killed almost 100 people. The military also announced the arrests of police and army officers in connection with the bombings. PAGE A4 
 CHINA FREES 3 DISSIDENTS 
 Chinese authorities unexpectedly released three political activists from detention. No reason was given for the releases, but they came a day after the new American ambassador arrived in Beijing. PAGE A4 
 TAIWAN'S 'KATRINA MOMENT'
 Anger, not sadness, is the prevailing sentiment across Taiwan two weeks after Typhoon Morakot killed at least 650 people. The government's slow response may become a permanent blot on President Ma Ying-jeou's legacy. PAGE A6 
 ISRAEL SEEKS A CENSURE
 Israeli anger over accusations in a Swedish newspaper article, which accused the Israeli Army of stealing organs from Palestinians, have turned into a diplomatic spat. PAGE A6 
 IRAQIS FLOCK TO THE BEACH
 There is a mirage a few hours outside Baghdad in the middle of Iraq's vast western desert. Well, no. It is amazing, but it is real: a long, sandy beach filled with people swimming and dancing barefoot. PAGE A8
 IRAN'S CONGRESS VETS CABINET
 Iran's Parliament began reviewing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's 21 cabinet choices. The process has bared the president's weakened standing, but in the end may help him if the hearings help restore the public's faith in the system. PAGE A8 
 National
 DEMOCRATS SWITCH TACK
 On Health Care Changes
 Senate Democrats said that they were fleshing out plans to pass health legislation with a simple majority instead of the 60 votes that would ordinarily be needed to overcome a filibuster. PAGE A12
 GIRL KILLED BY WAVE
 A young girl died and nine people were hospitalized after a rogue wave from Hurricane Bill slammed into a viewing platform near the ocean at Acadia National Park in Maine. PAGE A12 
 New York
 AS ANGER AT ALBANY RISES, 
 Calls for New Constitution
 In the weeks since a partisan power struggle in the State Senate brought New York's government to new heights of chaos, a growing chorus is calling for a more radical approach: a constitutional convention to rewrite the state's very political DNA. PAGE A15
 Business
 ASIA LEADS THE WAY
 In Global Recovery
 For the first time, the catalyst for a global economic recovery is coming from China and the rest of Asia, where resurgent economies are helping the still-shaky West recover from the deepest recession since World War II. PAGE B1
 MINING THE WEB FOR FEELINGS
 An emerging field known as sentiment analysis is taking shape around one of the computer world's unexplored frontiers: translating the vagaries of human emotion into hard data. For many businesses, online opinion has turned into a kind of virtual currency that can make or break a product in the marketplace. PAGE B1
 OPPOSING GOOGLE BOOKS
 Opposition is mounting in Europe to a proposed class-action settlement giving Google the right to commercialize digital copies of millions of books. PAGE B3
 PRESSING G.M. ON OPEL BID
 Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is calling on General Motors to choose a winner for Opel, the automaker's troubled German unit, as early as this week, saying tens of thousands of jobs depend on the decision. She favors a bid by Magna International, the Canadian auto-parts manufacturer. PAGE B3
 BLURRING A MAGAZINE'S LINES
 While magazines in the United States divide advertising and editorial content with bright lines, Tyler Brule, the founder of Wallpaper magazine and editor in chief of Monocle, dismisses talk of conflicts as a false choice. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
 A WIKI FOR EVERY SPORT
 A new Web site called Fanbase is creating an almanac of every professional and college athlete and team, no matter how obscure. PAGE B7
 Sports
 ANOTHER BIZARRE DAY 
 For the Mets
 On a day when they allowed six runs in the first inning, the Mets were in a position to win their game against Philadelphia with one swing of the bat, only to be thwarted by one of the rarest plays in baseball: the unassisted triple play. PAGE D1
 TENNIS WITH TWO RACKETS
 Don Mueller, a Ph.D. in chemical physics with a sideline in daffy showmanship, is a leading proponent of a quirky, unorganized offshoot of tennis, which he calls ''two-racket tennis.'' It is played with the same rules as normal tennis, except players are allowed an extra racket. PAGE D5
 HOPES DASHED BY INJURY
 The Giants defensive line was supposed to be one of the team's strengths this season. But those hopes were shaken when Jay Alford, a tackle who is a regular member of the rotation, suffered what could be a serious left knee injury in a preseason game. PAGE D6
 Arts
 YOUNG TRAIN-HOPPERS
 En Route to the U.S.
 ''Which Way Home,'' a documentary about child migrants that has its premiere on HBO on Monday, follows its subjects north toward the United States border, and reveals that a freight car roof can give them moments of freedom in between the harsh lives and terrible choices at either end of the trip. PAGE C1
 THE MAN BEHIND 'OZ'
 Rebecca Loncraine's ''Real Wizard of Oz,'' claims to be ''the first major literary biography'' of L. Frank Baum, who created Dorothy, Toto and the gang. But Janet Maslin writes that that is a tenuous claim and a tricky one. PAGE C1 
 DOUBLE DUTY AT JOE'S PUB
 The identical twin brothers and jazz musicians Marcus and E. J. Strickland played in each other's groups at Joe's Pub in Manhattan, during a tandem album-release celebration for Marcus's label, Strick Muzik. Review by Nate Chinen. PAGE C6
 A LACK OF DESIGN HEROES
 The death of Charles Gwathmey recalls the heady era of the New York Five -- a group of architects and thinkers who were dedicated to advancing the art form. Nicolai Ouroussoff considers them in context. PAGE C1
 Obituaries
 A. STONE FREEDBERG, 101
 A Harvard cardiologist, he developed an early treatment for angina, and his pioneering work in identifying the bacteria that cause stomach ulcers was initially all but ignored. PAGE D8
 SAMMY PETRILLO, 74
 A nightclub comic, he built his career mostly on his striking resemblance to Jerry Lewis and a spot-on impression of him. PAGE D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); TYPHOONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); BEACHES (72%); FILIBUSTER (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); NATIONAL PARKS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%) MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



635 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: As Heroes Disappear, The City Needs More

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
The death of Charles Gwathmey early this month has provoked a lot of nostalgic reminiscence in the New York architecture world: not just about Mr. Gwathmey himself, but also about the New York Five, a group of influential architects of which he was part.
 This nostalgia has much to do with what's been lost in the years since the group's prominence in the 1970s. The early years of that decade was a time when this city was beginning to close itself off to innovative architecture. But it was also a time when New York could still claim to be the country's center of architectural thought, and Mr. Gwathmey and his colleagues had a great deal to do with maintaining that pre-eminence in the public imagination. The New York Five came to represent the idea that architecture could still express and advance our values as a culture. To some, the group embodies the last heroic period in New York architecture. 
 That the five came together at all seems almost an accident of fate. They had no real manifesto, no common aesthetic. Several young, promising New York architects were invited by Arthur Drexler, the director of the Museum of Modern Art's legendary architecture department, to meet informally in the museum board room one day in the late '60s to talk about their work. More meetings followed, a few attendees dropped out, others joined in. When the book ''Five Architects,'' which inspired the group's name, was published in 1972, its success was a shock to everyone.
 What the five architects did share, however, was a desire to reassert the importance of architecture as art form during a crisis in the profession. By the mid-1960s much of the Modernist dream was in ruins, and one of its central tenets -- that architecture could act as an agent of positive social change -- lay buried beneath decades of failed urban housing projects, soulless government buildings and sterile concrete plazas.
 At the same time activists like Jane Jacobs were portraying modern architecture as the product of smug, pointy-headed academics out of touch with the way real people live. Her vision of the ideal city -- a historical community of brownstones, front stoops and corner stores -- was modeled on the North End in Boston and Greenwich Village. It left little room for new architectural ideas.
 Faced with such a hostile climate, some of the New York Five began looking to other creative disciplines for a way out of this malaise. John Hejduk, for example, often cited Fernand Leger and Juan Gris as an inspiration. The carefully assembled forms of Michael Graves's early projects drew inspiration from the still-life paintings of Giorgio Morandi. (Even Richard Meier's refined glass-and-steel aesthetic, which owed its most obvious debt to orthodox Modernism, turned the classical Modernist house into a fetishized art object.)
 The group's greatest contribution, in retrospect, was its assertion that architecture had not reached a dead end. The architects saw themselves as artists and thinkers -- not activists -- and this was particularly true of Peter Eisenman, sometimes to a fault. The distorted grids of his early houses, with their references to Renaissance precedents and Structuralist theory, were not only a way to thumb a nose gleefully at Jacobs-style populism; they also elevated conceptual ideas above material and structure, the life of the mind over the life of the body.
 To many in the profession this aesthetic approach represented a way forward. Philip Johnson, who seemed to rule the American architectural scene from his perch as a trustee at the Museum of Modern Art, began to fete the five over lunches at the Four Seasons and black-tie dinners at the Century club. He introduced them to powerful figures in the art establishment.
 Yet to those who were paying attention, the party's end was evident almost as soon as it had started. By the mid-1980s the effort to suburbanize the city's core and make it safe for tourists -- a process that many associate with Rudolph W. Giuliani and his mayoral quality-of-life campaigns a decade later -- was well under way, and the group's members had splintered off in different directions.
 Mr. Graves, once a dogmatic Modernist, retreated into an ersatz historicism. Mr. Hejduk, who died in 2000, beat a similar retreat into academia. Although Mr. Meier continues to create works of remarkable refinement, his vision has not significantly changed in decades. Only Mr. Eisenman has kept up a theoretical practice, one in which the work is continually evolving, but he has built little -- and nothing in New York.
 The country's creative energy shifted westward, to Los Angeles, whose vibrant mix of urban grit and nature, abundance of relatively cheap land and lack of confining historical traditions allowed architects to experiment with a freedom that had become virtually impossible in New York.
 Frank Gehry, Thom Mayne, Eric Owen Moss, Robert Mangurian, Craig Hodgetts -- these architects were not only the creative equals of their New York counterparts, they were making architecture that was rooted in popular culture and as rich in ideas as anything that has come out of New York in decades. They have been joined by a younger generation, including Greg Lynn, Michael Maltzan, Neil Denari and the team of Kevin Daly and Chris Genik, that has no real equivalent in New York. 
 A similar energy could be found in Europe and Japan, where the crisis of Modernism had not been felt as deeply and architects had never stopped experimenting. 
 Given that reality, it should not be surprising to anyone that the most important works of contemporary architecture to rise in New York over the past decade -- Mr. Gehry's IAC headquarters on the West Side Highway, Mr. Mayne's Cooper Union building, the Tokyo firm Sanaa's New Museum of Contemporary Art on the Bowery and Jean Nouvel's tower under construction in Chelsea -- were designed not by New Yorkers but by Angelenos, a Japanese woman and a Frenchman.
 It is hard to know how the current financial crisis will affect this trend. More than once I've heard it suggested that the downturn will be good for architecture. The argument goes something like this: The economic tailspin will put an end to the boom in gaudy residential towers that are distorting the city's skyline. Cheap rents will attract young, hungry creative types. This will spawn a cultural flowering similar to that of the 1970s, when the Bronx was burning, graffiti artists were the norm and Gordon Matta-Clark was carving up empty warehouses on the Hudson River piers with a power saw. 
 But cheap rents alone won't do it. On the contrary, the construction slowdown, if it lasts long enough, will likely drive many young talents out of the profession for good. It also looks less and less likely that a government-sponsored, Works Progress Administration-style civic project will revive the profession -- another favorite fantasy of the ever-optimistic architecture scene.
 Real change will first demand a radical shift in our cultural priorities. Politicians will have to embrace the cosmopolitanism that was once the city's core identity. New York's cultural institutions will need to shake off the complacency that comes with age and respectability. Architects will need to see blind obedience once again as a vice, not a virtue. And New Yorkers will have to remember why they came to the city in the first place: to find a refuge from suburbia, not to replicate it. That's a tall order.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An architecture column on Monday about the group of architects known as the New York Five referred incorrectly to the work of one, Peter Eisenman, in New York City since the group's prominence in the 1970s. In the 1980s he designed a firehouse at 25 Rockaway Avenue in Brooklyn, and a residential loft conversion in Manhattan. It is not the case that he has built nothing in New York since the group's heyday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 1966 Gwathmey house, designed by Charles Gwathmey.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
The 1967 Hanselmann house, designed by the New York Five architect Michael Graves, in Fort Wayne, Ind.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM YEE/CONDe NAST PUBLICATIONS)
The Rowayton, Conn., Smith house, a residence designed by Richard Meier.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT FRANCES/ESTO)
 The restored Eisenman house, designed by the New York Five architect Peter Eisenman, in Hardwick, Vt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN VANDEN BRINK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); PAINTING (71%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



636 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: All the President's Zombies

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The debate over the ''public option'' in health care has been dismaying in many ways. Perhaps the most depressing aspect for progressives, however, has been the extent to which opponents of greater choice in health care have gained traction -- in Congress, if not with the broader public -- simply by repeating, over and over again, that the public option would be, horrors, a government program.
 Washington, it seems, is still ruled by Reaganism -- by an ideology that says government intervention is always bad, and leaving the private sector to its own devices is always good. 
Call me naive, but I actually hoped that the failure of Reaganism in practice would kill it. It turns out, however, to be a zombie doctrine: even though it should be dead, it keeps on coming.
 Let's talk for a moment about why the age of Reagan should be over.
 First of all, even before the current crisis Reaganomics had failed to deliver what it promised. Remember how lower taxes on high incomes and deregulation that unleashed the ''magic of the marketplace'' were supposed to lead to dramatically better outcomes for everyone? Well, it didn't happen.
 To be sure, the wealthy benefited enormously: the real incomes of the top .01 percent of Americans rose sevenfold between 1980 and 2007. But the real income of the median family rose only 22 percent, less than a third its growth over the previous 27 years. 
 Moreover, most of whatever gains ordinary Americans achieved came during the Clinton years. President George W. Bush, who had the distinction of being the first Reaganite president to also have a fully Republican Congress, also had the distinction of presiding over the first administration since Herbert Hoover in which the typical family failed to see any significant income gains.
 And then there's the small matter of the worst recession since the 1930s. 
 There's a lot to be said about the financial disaster of the last two years, but the short version is simple: politicians in the thrall of Reaganite ideology dismantled the New Deal regulations that had prevented banking crises for half a century, believing that financial markets could take care of themselves. The effect was to make the financial system vulnerable to a 1930s-style crisis -- and the crisis came. 
 ''We have always known that heedless self-interest was bad morals,'' said Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1937. ''We know now that it is bad economics.'' And last year we learned that lesson all over again.
 Or did we? The astonishing thing about the current political scene is the extent to which nothing has changed.
 The debate over the public option has, as I said, been depressing in its inanity. Opponents of the option -- not just Republicans, but Democrats like Senator Kent Conrad and Senator Ben Nelson -- have offered no coherent arguments against it. Mr. Nelson has warned ominously that if the option were available, Americans would choose it over private insurance -- which he treats as a self-evidently bad thing, rather than as what should happen if the government plan was, in fact, better than what private insurers offer.
 But it's much the same on other fronts. Efforts to strengthen bank regulation appear to be losing steam, as opponents of reform declare that more regulation would lead to less financial innovation -- this just months after the wonders of innovation brought our financial system to the edge of collapse, a collapse that was averted only with huge infusions of taxpayer funds.
 So why won't these zombie ideas die?
 Part of the answer is that there's a lot of money behind them. ''It is difficult to get a man to understand something,'' said Upton Sinclair, ''when his salary'' -- or, I would add, his campaign contributions -- ''depend upon his not understanding it.'' In particular, vast amounts of insurance industry money have been flowing to obstructionist Democrats like Mr. Nelson and Senator Max Baucus, whose Gang of Six negotiations have been a crucial roadblock to legislation.
 But some of the blame also must rest with President Obama, who famously praised Reagan during the Democratic primary, and hasn't used the bully pulpit to confront government-is-bad fundamentalism. That's ironic, in a way, since a large part of what made Reagan so effective, for better or for worse, was the fact that he sought to change America's thinking as well as its tax code.
 How will this all work out? I don't know. But it's hard to avoid the sense that a crucial opportunity is being missed, that we're at what should be a turning point but are failing to make the turn.
 In my column last Monday, I made a joke about the Swiss that fell flat with some readers. Also, the Swiss don't wear lederhosen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); BANK FAILURES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



637 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Monocle: A Magazine, An Attitude

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com http://twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Many publishers will refer to advertisers as business partners. Tyler Brule, the founder of Wallpaper magazine and editor in chief of Monocle, calls them ''patrons of Monocle's approach.'' 
 And he means it, too. In the United States, magazines abide by the rules of the American Society of Magazine Editors, which call for clear bright lines between advertising and editorial. But for Monocle, a globe-trotting magazine for what Mr. Brule calls the ''Lufthansa audience,'' the only bright line is the one separating lively from dull.
 ''We are a global magazine and I think that approach is beginning to go sour in the fridge,'' Mr. Brule said. 
 In the September issue, for example, there is a large insert on Singapore, with a survey paid for by its government and several large companies there, but articles generated by the magazine staff. Mr. Brule dismisses talk of conflicts as a false choice. But of course, when someone runs a magazine and runs his own ad agency, you have to wonder which hat he wears when. 
 ''Rather than some boozy lunch with editors and sponsored parties, we cut right to the chase. We have editorial integrity, we don't accept freebies and we make the final decision about what is worthy,'' he said. ''But as publisher and editor, I'm part of the religious and secular worlds, and I make the decision. No offense, but I think the whole church-and-state thing is a very tired, U.S. concept.''
 But then, life is a bit of a caper if you are Mr. Brule. A little over a week ago, Mr. Brule flew from Helsinki, Finland, and we met in the lobby of the Four Seasons in New York. When he called a few nights later, he was visiting with a ''leading Japanese underwear company'' in Osaka, ''a classic second city.'' In the next few weeks, his itinerary will include Rome, Milan, Switzerland and Paris. 
 Those of us who are currently fighting to find a week for a rental at the shore might find it easy to hate Mr. Brule. At 40 years old, he is handsome, bordering on dashing, and he knows most of the world as well as the back of his left hand, which, by the way, he has limited use of after he was shot by a sniper in Afghanistan when he was working as a correspondent there. 
 As a writer, he has picked up exotic datelines for The Guardian, The Sunday Times and Vanity Fair (along with The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune) and is currently a columnist for The Financial Times. He famously invented Wallpaper, an outre design magazine that was bought by Time Inc. in 1997, and he went on to found an ad agency, Wink, that is now Winkreative. 
 Mr. Brule's status as a tastemaker was assured when he was hired in 2001 to design the look of Swiss International Air Lines. After leaving Wallpaper and waiting out his noncompete with Time Inc., in 2007 he created and financed, along with some investors, Monocle, a 10-times-a-year printed infomercial based in London on living the good life, one first-class flight at a time.
 The September issue is a deep consideration of the growing use of so-called soft power, but chiefly Monocle renders the world as a giant boutique, full of hand-crafted coffee, hand-built bikes and an endless array of handsome destinations full of shiny, happy people who try to keep their carbon footprints to a minimum if you don't count all the jetting around. 
 The editorial tone is the opposite of jaded, with a relentless optimism that suggests we can build a better world if we just think creatively about intractable global problems and buy the right stuff along the way. It has become something of a cult artifact among wealthy itinerants in its two-and-a-half year existence, with a distribution of 150,000 copies in 82 countries.
 The magazine is still looking for a profit, but Mr. Brule said advertising was up significantly over last year during a stretch when magazine advertising was vanishing.
 ''I think part of what is happening is that so many other media outlets have pulled back on travel in editorial and advertising,'' he said, taking a sip of wine. ''You have to be out there. Even in this day and age, you are not going to finish a deal in Seoul without having a couple of glasses of wine and singing some karaoke with the clients.''
 The Tyler Brule lifestyle could be a cartoon -- there is that accent-annotated name, which seems more brand than appellation, and there is even a blog that apes his global galavantings called Being Tyler Brule. But as a native of Winnipeg born to a football player and an artist, Mr. Brule manages to pull it off with the intrinsic decency of many Canadians. It helps that while he now lives in London, there is none of the borrowed lilt in his speech. 
 Building a luxe global magazine in the teeth of a far-reaching recession would seem to be counterintuitive, but then everything about Monocle goes against some grain or another. The magazine itself has a whopping $10 cover price (back issues cost double that). In an era when publishers have taken to printing on paper that is one step removed from tissue wrap, Monocle feels and looks like a slab of printed dark Belgian chocolate. 
 And the magazine has direct relationships with advertisers, including the government of Taiwan, Rosetta Stone and Absolut vodka, which comes up with advertising that mimics the look and ethos of Monocle. And it doesn't end there: the magazine has two retail outlets, in Los Angeles and London, and a temporary pop-up store in Spain, where customers can shop branded merchandise like bicycles and cologne. 
 ''That conflict is of less concern to readers than one might hope,'' said Norman Pearlstine, the former editor in chief of Time Inc. who now is now chief content officer at Bloomberg L.P. He is an admirer of Mr. Brule's from the Wallpaper days, calling him a ''brilliant editor'' who is always working, but he wonders how a magazine with global franchise will find an advertising base when most of the buys are regionally controlled. (He noted wryly that Mr. Brule had expansive tastes as the editor of Wallpaper; he once chartered a plane after he missed a commercial flight.)
 The better question may be whether other publications follow suit. If you have trouble understanding the power of a magazine endorsement, think about what might ensue if Anna Wintour of Vogue put her imprimatur on a line of accessories. 
 Todd Wood is the vice president for industrial design at Research in Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry, which has sponsored Monocle Weekly, a podcast of the magazine. He likes Monocle's approach precisely because of the lack of conventional boundaries.
 ''Tyler and Monocle are at the leading edge of innovation in terms of their industry,'' he said. ''Their approach to information and intelligence is a very good fit for us.'' 
 American magazines have occasionally pushed editorial guidelines to the limit, but have resisted going as far as Mr. Brule. As traditional sources of advertising dwindle and clients become accustomed to a multiplatform world where their messages are just one more kind of content, maybe he is on to something. 
 So far, the willingness of Monocle to kick down the walls in terms of a different kind of partnership with its advertisers does not prevent it from being a highly readable, thought-provoking magazine. But you have to wonder how it might look in less nimble, more craven hands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); WRITERS (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); RELIGION (69%); CHURCH & STATE (64%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (57%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (53%); OSAKA, JAPAN (53%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FINLAND (71%); AFGHANISTAN (71%); SWITZERLAND (56%); JAPAN (53%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



638 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 482 words

BYLINE: By KRISHNAN VASUDEVAN

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 A Missing Tooth
 And a Job Search
 Ted Martinez is often reluctant to smile when his picture is taken. A gap in the top right of his smile tells of a failed root canal in 2007, which caused his tooth to crack. The tooth was extracted a year later. 
 Though he had insurance, he was laid off before his tooth cracked. Now, with no insurance, credit card debt and only $400 a week in unemployment money, Mr. Martinez, 28, who lives in Jamaica, Queens, has been unable to fill in the gap for nearly a year.
 A replacement tooth costs $4,000 without insurance. First, there's a $2,000 procedure to implant a metal screw where the tooth once was, then another $2,000 procedure to implant a ceramic crown to fill the gap. Mr. Martinez's mother paid for the screw in March.
 ''I'm in charge of the tooth,'' Mr. Martinez said nervously, referring to the crown he can't afford.
 He has reached the credit limit on three of his four cards and is trying to pay bills. Getting the crown is low on his list of priorities. But the missing tooth does not help his self-esteem on job interviews.
 ''When you first meet people, it's all about presentation,'' said Mr. Martinez, whose last job was as a meeting planner for a media company.
 Mr. Martinez, who is of Filipino descent, spends much of his time at the Philippine-American Center in Queens. ''I help them out with a few things, and they help me out by providing me with an Internet connection,'' said Mr. Martinez, who helps plan cultural events for the center. The center's air-conditioning is a huge bonus, he said, when he is scouring Facebook, Craigslist and unemployment blogs for job openings.
 And his friends help him see the lighter side to his situation. ''My own friend said I should jam a Chiclet in place of the tooth,'' he said.
 The unemployment benefits will run out in a few weeks, and Mr. Martinez said his future was uncertain if he couldn't find a stable job. ''My game plan right now is just to apply to jobs every day; Plan B is to apply to retail jobs at the mall,'' he said, adding that a last resort would be to move home to Virginia Beach.
 But he remains cheerful. Cracking a big smile -- and exposing his missing tooth -- Mr. Martinez said: ''I've been finding free drinking places every day, which is great. This city is great for free stuff.''
 KRISHNAN VASUDEVAN 
 VIDEO: Online: video of Mr. Martinez telling his story.
 ALSO
 ONLINE
 INTERACTIVE: Reaching Out: For more coverage on the human side of the recession, visit the Living With Less guide, where readers can share their photos, moods and tips for weathering the economic downturn.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Richard Rosenberg, president of the Amateur Astronomers Association of New York, will answer readers' questions about stargazing in the city. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear on Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ted Martinez and his gap. (PHOTOGRPAH BY KRISHNAN VASUDEVAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); INTERNET & WWW (63%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (53%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



639 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HEYMAN

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Discovery) OUT OF EGYPT In the debut of this series that uses ancient Egypt as a tool for understanding other civilizations, the preservation of bodies and significance of relics across cultures are examined. Then, at 10 p.m., the pyramids at Giza are placed in the context of similar structures in Mexico, above, and Sri Lanka. Kara Cooney, a professor of Egyptian art and architecture at the University of California, Los Angeles, is host.
 5 P.M. (Cartoon Network) SCOOBY-DOO AND THE SAMURAI SWORD (2009) Zoinks! Scooby-Doo and the gang embark on an adventure in the Far East. 
 8 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR The British car criticJeremy Clarkson takes the Porsche Cayman S (retail price: $60,200) for a spin. Later, the $45,000 Audi RS4 is introduced to the Verdon Gorge in France. 
 8 P.M. (Disney) PRINCESS PROTECTION PROGRAM (2009) A tween in a tiara (Demi Lovato) arrives in Wisconsin, where a local girl (Selena Gomez) helps her blend in. 
 8 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) OSCAR AND LUCINDA (1997) Directed by Gillian Armstrong and adapted from a novel byPeter Carey, this film tells the story of two inveterate gamblers -- Oscar, a clergyman, and Lucinda, an heiress (Ralph Fiennes and Cate Blanchett, above) -- who bet on whether a church made of glass will survive a trip from Sydney to a remote Australian town. ''Making rhapsodic use of natural light and of carefully chosen objects, this is a film that can find something gorgeous even in a boatload of cauliflower,'' Janet Maslin wrote in a review in The New York Times. 
 9 P.M. (TNT) THE CLOSER In this summer season finale a woman is stabbed to death by someone in a ninja outfit, and the major crimes unit, led by Brenda Leigh Johnson (Kyra Sedgwick), investigates. 
 9 P.M. (Sundance) PAINTERS PAINTING: THE NEW YORK ART SCENE, 1940-1970 (1973) Emile de Antonio's film includes interviews with a number of artists, including Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns and Willem de Kooning. In a review in The New York Times, Vincent Canby wrote that the documentary -- ''a great big, cheerfully uncritical hug of a movie'' -- ''should be called 'Painters Talking.' '' 
 9 P.M. (13, 49) HISTORY DETECTIVES What has become of the Depression-era art sponsored by the Works Progress Administration? The answer to that question is revealed along with the provenance of a tiny George Washington portrait, left. 
 9 P.M. (Science) POPULAR SCIENCE'S FUTURE OF: SEX The innovations include DNA screenings for potential mates and robotic gigolos. 
 9 P.M. (Investigation Discovery) SOLVED After a 4-year-old boy tells church volunteers that his grandparents are ''melting,'' the bodies of the boy's relatives, riddled with shotgun blasts, are discovered. 
 10 P.M. (Travel) ANTHONY BOURDAIN: NO RESERVATIONS Mr. Bourdain goes fly-fishing in Montana. 
 10 P.M. (History) CLASH OF THE GODS This episode explores the myth of the Minotaur.
 10 P.M. (Bravo) THE RACHEL ZOE PROJECT In the second season premiere Ms. Zoe, a Hollywood stylist, struggles to dress Anne Hathaway, Cameron Diaz, Demi Moore, Debra Messing and Eva Mendes for the Golden Globes. With everyone mindful of the recession, she aims for a less-flashy glamour. 
 10 P.M. (Showtime) WEEDS Nancy (Mary-Louise Parker) stays up all night, with wine close at hand, waiting to hear news about her husband, who was taken away in handcuffs. After the episode, at 10:30, comes the season finale of ''Nurse Jackie.'' 
 11 P.M. (13) CHARLIE ROSEDolly Parton, Meryl Streep and Helen Mirren are guests. STEPHEN HEYMAN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: SELENA GOMEZ (52%); CATE BLANCHETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (76%) EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (69%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



640 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: For The New York Observer, the Perfect Time to Start a Paper About Real Estate

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Twenty months into a deep recession, the real estate market is battered and the print news media are doing even worse. What kind of time is this for a money-losing publisher to start a print publication about real estate? 
 A perfect one, according to Jared Kushner, owner of The New York Observer, who is about to introduce The Commercial Observer, a weekly newspaper on the commercial real estate market in New York City. The first issue will be published Sept. 15.
 The project combines two elements -- a niche topic and a local focus -- that analysts say have become central to success in a deeply troubled newspaper industry.
 ''I think now everyone's interested in the real estate market, and a product that covers it closely will have great value to advertisers,'' Mr. Kushner said in an interview. ''Right now, there are no building sales but there are a lot of leases. There are a lot of deals that happen that don't get picked up anywhere in the media. But people in real estate care.''
 The Commercial Observer, with 24 to 28 pages an issue, will be delivered free to 10,000 people in the city's real estate business. The new paper will sell subscriptions for $240 a year, and it may eventually charge industry insiders, as well, Mr. Kusher said, but ''what I care about most is that the right people are getting it.'' There will be no newsstand sales.
 The paper will have plenty of competition from publications like The Real Deal, a monthly magazine, and Real Estate Weekly, which both cover the region's commercial and residential real estate markets; and from more mainstream publications like Crain's New York Business, a weekly, and the city's daily newspapers.
 Observer executives decided that they would fare best with a narrower subject area, commercial property, and avoid cannibalizing the gossipy, popular and Manhattan-centric residential real estate coverage The Observer is known for.
 With advertising slumping badly, The Observer recently laid off a large portion of its staff and shifted to relying more heavily on freelancers. But Mr. Kushner said that the paper had become more cost-efficient and that some other parts of the company, the Observer Media Group, including its PolitickerNY and PolitickerNJ Web sites, were thriving financially.
 At the company, he said, ''we're going to lose less money this year than last year, and next year we're going to be close to break-even.'' 
 The Commercial Observer will share the salmon-colored paper, tabloid format and top editors of its parent paper. The company said the new paper would have some additional personnel, but it would not provide figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (96%); PUBLISHING (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); NEWSSTANDS (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



641 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan's President Faces Anger Over Storm Response

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
Flags are flying at half-staff during three days of national mourning to honor those killed by Typhoon Morakot two weeks ago. But anger, not sadness, remains the prevailing sentiment across Taiwan as President Ma Ying-jeou grapples with his worst political crisis since taking office last year.
 Despite repeated apologies for a slow response to the storm -- which left at least 650 people dead or missing after record rain caused huge landslides -- Mr. Ma has been kept busy warding off the skeptical news media and his political opponents, and calming furious survivors. 
 ''The government is sorry,'' Mr. Ma said Saturday. ''It failed to fulfill its responsibility to protect you.''
 Political analysts and even Mr. Ma's allies in the governing Nationalist Party worry that Typhoon Morakot could become his ''Katrina moment,'' a blot on his legacy and perhaps an irreversible turning point just 15 months into his administration. But while the post-Morakot posturing makes for great political theater in Taiwan, the outside world is watching to see whether the episode will affect Mr. Ma's efforts to bring Taiwan closer to China.
 Mr. Ma won office, in part, on a platform of improved ties to the mainland, but the pace of rapprochement has unnerved some voters who are mindful that reunification is the stated goal of the Communist Party in Beijing, even if it means sending the People's Liberation Army across the Taiwan Strait. 
 Since taking office, Mr. Ma has scored points by bolstering economic ties, starting direct mail service and liberalizing travel between Taiwan and the mainland. But those opposed to closer relations say the president's inaction in the days after the storm, including an initial rejection of foreign aid, suggests that he is increasingly beholden to Beijing, a charge he and his political allies say is absurd.
 Even Mr. Ma's decision to accept emergency supplies from the United States, Taiwan's staunchest ally, produced hand-wringing among those who questioned why military insignia on American aircraft were masked. 
 To make matters worse, during a news conference on Tuesday Mr. Ma suggested that the main task of Taiwan's army should be prevention and rescue. ''But now our enemy is not necessarily the people across the Taiwan Strait but nature,'' he said, adding that an order for 60 American-made Blackhawk helicopters would be cut by 15, and the savings used to buy disaster relief aircraft.
 Adding fuel to speculation over his true intentions was the government's failure to apply last week for membership in the United Nations, a largely symbolic gesture that has occurred annually since 1993.
 At the other end of the spectrum, advocates for closer ties between the two longtime enemies say that those aiming to thwart reunification are using the typhoon to their advantage. 
 Su Hao, an analyst at the government-run China Foreign Affairs University in Beijing, blamed CNN for publishing an online survey last week in which 82 percent of respondents said Mr. Ma should resign for his sluggish response to the storm.
 Even though the poll did not claim to be scientific, Mr. Su accused the network of acting at the behest of the White House. ''The U.S. government has always taken the stance of supporting the status quo in the Taiwan Strait,'' he said, a reference to the ambiguous state that defines Taiwan, formally known as the Republic of China, and its democratic political system. 
 Meanwhile, it was difficult to find anyone sympathetic to Mr. Ma's predicament last week. On Saturday, during a memorial service for typhoon victims and a stop at a shelter for displaced residents, Mr. Ma's remorseful bows and vows of speedy reconstruction did little to assuage the protesters. ''How would you feel if your family members had died?'' one woman yelled, according to The Taipei Times. ''If you cannot do the job well, let someone else do it.''
 Chao Yung-mau, dean of the school of social sciences at Taiwan National University, said he was not hopeful that Mr. Ma could regain public confidence, especially if reconstruction and recovery efforts flag in the coming weeks. ''I don't have enough confidence to think he will bounce back,'' he said. ''I'm pessimistic about his situation.''
 The opposition Democratic Progressive Party has not been shy in exploiting Mr. Ma's misfortunes. Last week, opposition legislators said they would consider introducing a vote of no-confidence. Members of the Control Yuan, an investigative branch of the government, have begun an inquiry into whether misconduct by high-ranking officials warranted impeachment. Mr. Ma has said he will consider shuffling his cabinet; three senior aides, including his defense minister, have offered to resign.
 In interviews last week, even supporters described him as aloof, indecisive and inclined to technocratic language. Some suggested he was too proud of his law degree from Harvard and perhaps too eager to show his English fluency to the foreign media. ''He's had too much of an easy life and doesn't really feel other people's pain,'' Chen Ping-hui, 50, said as she made dumplings at a Taipei restaurant.
 In an interview, one of his advisers, Lin Hou-Wang, described Mr. Ma as intelligent and hard working but at times too conciliatory. ''All his life he's been so civil and so polite, a Mr. Nice Guy well liked by everybody,'' said Mr. Lin, a philosophy professor at National Taiwan University who also helped Mr. Ma during his successful campaign for mayor of Taipei. ''You could say he does not have enough training dealing with adversity.''
 Chou Chia-cheng, 70, a retired banker who voted for Mr. Ma, said Taiwan's politicized media and power-hungry opposition were magnifying his missteps. ''I'm not sure I'll vote for Ma again, but we should let the man finish the job,'' he said. ''The truth is, it rained a lot. I just think Ma got unlucky.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan, second from right, showing respect for typhoon victims at a Taipei news conference Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
 Chou Chia-cheng, who voted for Mr. Ma, said the president's rivals and the news media were magnifying his missteps.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THEODORE KAYE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); TYPHOONS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); HELICOPTERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); LANDSLIDES (58%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



642 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 28 words

HEADLINE: Beth Court: Making Do

 BODY:
Articles in this series explore how a block of eight homes in Moreno Valley, Calif., about 60 miles from Los Angeles, has been reshaped by the housing bust and recession. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Phil Winkler mowing his lawn on Beth Court. The first article in a series about the street is at nytimes.com/national.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



643 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Without Explanation, China Releases 3 Activists as New U.S. Ambassador Arrives

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Chinese authorities unexpectedly released three political activists from detention on Sunday, including one whose case had drawn global attention.
 Officials offered no reason for the releases, but they occurred one day after the new American ambassador to China, former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah, arrived in Beijing. 
 The government did not say whether it had also suspended criminal tax-evasion charges made last week against the most prominent of the freed men, Xu Zhiyong, a public-interest lawyer, that could result in a prison sentence of seven years were he to be convicted. 
 The prosecution of Mr. Xu in particular has attracted scrutiny abroad because of his role in other cases that are seen as a test of the Chinese legal system's fairness. Mr. Xu, 36, and a co-worker, Zhuang Lu, were released more than three weeks after they were seized in their homes on July 29. The authorities also shut down Mr. Xu's Gongmeng legal center, also known as the Open Constitution Initiative, from which Mr. Xu and others had taken on cases against government authorities.
 Recently, Mr. Xu's center represented parents whose children were sickened by chemical-tainted milk, a regulatory scandal that embarrassed the government and led to the collapse of one of the nation's biggest dairy companies.
 In a separate case, Beijing authorities also released Ilham Tohti, an economist, Internet activist and ethnic Uighur detained after deadly riots erupted in the western Xinjiang region in early July.
 Mr. Tohti, 39, ran a Web site called Uighur Online, a popular forum for ethnic Uighurs, who live mostly in Xinjiang, to discuss issues important to them. After the July rioting, Xinjiang's governor, Nur Bekri, charged that the site had helped foment the violence by spreading rumors. The Web site has since been closed. 
 The government has accused Mr. Xu of evading taxes on a $100,000 grant that Yale University gave the Gongmeng center for legal programs. The charges are widely regarded by outsiders as punishment for Mr. Xu's advocacy of the rule of law.
 China's court system is controlled by the ruling Communist Party, and legal decisions -- especially in cases with important political or social ramifications -- are often regarded as skirting written law to reflect the dictates of party officials.
 The accusation against Mr. Xu was filed during a general crackdown by Chinese authorities on independent activists, and particularly on those activists who receive financing from foreign sources. In a recent speech, China's justice minister warned lawyers that their primary duty was to support the Communist Party and promote a ''harmonious society,'' and said that party minders would be sent to law firms to enforce that doctrine.
 China scholars and political analysts have speculated for months about whether the crackdown is temporary, perhaps linked to government concerns about disruption of the October celebration of the 60th anniversary of modern China's founding, or whether it is part of a broader and longer-lasting effort to curtail free speech.
 Mr. Xu's detention and later arrest have surprised many here because his Gongmeng center is regarded as among the most cautious and conservative of China's small band of public-interest organizations. 
 While the center has pursued some high-profile cases, it has been careful to work within the parameters of Chinese law and to focus on helping Chinese citizens secure already recognized legal rights.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China did not say whether it had suspended the charges against Xu Zhiyong, a lawyer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); LAWYERS (89%); RIOTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); SCANDALS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); WEB SITES (69%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (66%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); XINJIANG, CHINA (89%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



644 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Sells America's I.O.U.'s

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The brightly illuminated room looks like mission control for a space flight. Seven people, wearing headphones, stare intently at computer screens. Three minutes before the deadline, a disembodied voice exclaims, ''We have coverage.''
 This is no shuttle launch. It is an auction of United States Treasury securities, and $32 billion has just been sold in a blink. It was another successful operation for Van Zeck, the commissioner of the public debt, who has the world's biggest credit card.
 Mr. Zeck has worked for the federal government for 38 of his 60 years. He is a very busy man these days because the government is floating on a sea of red ink, as it borrows more and more money to stimulate the economy, bail out banks, shore up auto companies, aid struggling homeowners and fight foreign wars. 
 In a city full of pompous politicians and bombastic bureaucrats, Mr. Zeck quietly runs one of the government's truly indispensable operations. He is not a policy maker. He does not decide how much to borrow. He just makes sure the money is borrowed, in a regular and predictable way, at the lowest possible cost to the government over time. 
 ''We are the back office, the plumbing,'' Mr. Zeck said. ''We are borrowing a ton of money. It has to be done right.''
 Public attention will focus on the debt this week because the White House and the Congressional Budget Office plan to issue dueling estimates of federal spending and revenue for the next 10 years. In a preview, the White House said Friday that it saw the cumulative total of deficits over the next 10 years adding up to $9 trillion, or $2 trillion more than it anticipated in February. That means much more government borrowing.
 Last year alone, Mr. Zeck auctioned off $5.5 trillion of Treasury securities, to replace maturing debt and to meet new borrowing needs. Wall Street dealers expect the figure to exceed $8 trillion this year -- an average of more than $253,000 every second.
 In the first eight months of the current fiscal year, the government issued more Treasury bills, notes and bonds than in all of last year. Mr. Zeck expects to conduct more than 280 auctions this year, up from 263 last year and about 220 a year from 2004 to 2007. 
 Mr. Zeck and his colleagues have a passion for precision. They keep track of federal debt to the penny.
 Debt held by the public stood at $3.4 trillion when President George W. Bush took office in 2001. When President Obama was inaugurated in January, the debt was $6.3 trillion. Since then, it has grown by $1 trillion, to $7.3 trillion.
 When Mr. Zeck tells people he works at the Bureau of the Public Debt, he said, they often quip, ''You will have work forever.''
 Even when the economy begins to expand, the bureau will still have plenty to do, as tax receipts typically lag in a recovery. Moreover, the government will need to borrow money to help finance entitlement programs for baby boomers.
 Mr. Obama's budget predicts that debt held by the public will soar, exceeding 60 percent of the gross domestic product in a few years. The share has never exceeded 50 percent in the last 50 years.
 ''Debt as a percentage of G.D.P. is rising and nearing a postwar high,'' the Treasury said this month.
 Treasury auctions are an arcane business, and Mr. Zeck runs them so smoothly that Treasury secretaries and Congress rarely interfere. Mr. Zeck said he had not been called to testify before Congress in about 15 years.
 Other agencies have lost track of large sums because their financial records were a mess. ''That's just not acceptable to us,'' Mr. Zeck said.
 Referring to the accountants who keep a daily tally of the federal debt, Mr. Zeck said: ''These are people who reconcile their checkbooks. The idea of missing a penny would drive them crazy.''
 Treasury auctions have become larger and more frequent. The auction calendar is extremely crowded. On almost every work day, the Treasury is announcing, conducting or settling auctions.
 ''Historically,'' Mr. Zeck said, ''we did not do auctions on Fridays. But now we are doing some.''
 In February, the Treasury announced it was bringing back the seven-year note, for the first time since 1993, and it doubled the number of 30-year bond auctions, to eight a year. Just three months later, it announced a further increase in the frequency of 30-year bond auctions, to 12 a year.
 On Aug. 5, the Treasury told investors they ''should expect auction sizes to continue to rise in a gradual manner over the medium term.''
 When Treasury officials plan these auctions, they try to keep the size and mix of securities predictable for investors and prevent any surprises that could disrupt the market and thereby increase borrowing costs.
 Mr. Zeck, who received the government's highest civil service award 10 years ago, borrows huge sums from big investors on Wall Street and around the world. But he is also mindful of small investors who entrust their retirement savings to the government.
 ''We have a fiduciary responsibility to individuals who have invested $1,000 or $5,000 or $10,000 in savings bonds and other Treasury securities,'' Mr. Zeck said. 
 The Treasury installed a completely automated electronic auction system in April 2008, just in time for the surge in borrowing.
 ''From an operational standpoint,'' Mr. Zeck said, ''it's just about as easy to sell $30 billion as $20 billion'' of government securities. 
 Federal officials have been pleasantly surprised to see the demand for Treasury securities keep pace with the growing supply. Invariably, they get ''coverage,'' meaning that the bids exceed the amount of securities being offered -- a great relief to federal money managers. When the government auctioned $32 billion of four-week Treasury bills last week, the bids totaled $114 billion.
 Foreign investors have generally shown a strong appetite for federal debt. China, the largest foreign holder of Treasury securities, sent a chill through credit markets in March when its prime minister said he was ''a little bit worried'' about China's investments in the United States. The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, quickly assured the Chinese that their assets were ''very safe'' here.
 The federal government enjoys economies of scale, and it is borrowing on a scale never seen before, so the cost per auction has gone down slightly. The cost of running a Treasury auction -- an average of $237,636 per auction -- is tiny compared with the amounts borrowed. The cost includes safety precautions to make sure auctions are not disrupted by power failures, terrorism, cyberattacks, natural disasters or pandemic illness.
 When Mr. Zeck began working for the Bureau of the Public Debt in 1971, he never expected to be there 38 years later.
 ''I love the organization,'' Mr. Zeck said. ''Somewhere along the way, I got captured by it, captured by the mission and the customer service we were able to provide, and I realized that I was an operations guy. That's what I really enjoyed.''
 Even when the government runs a surplus, as it did from 1998 to 2001, it still has to auction Treasury securities to replace maturing debt.
 Mr. Zeck's hobbies include computers. ''My favorite new toy,'' he said, ''is the AmazonKindle, which brings together my love of technology and my enjoyment of reading.'' He favors fiction, including mysteries, and books about organizational culture.
 The bureau has an annual budget of $187 million and nearly 2,000 employees. Only 65 work in Washington. The rest are at an operations center in Parkersburg, W.Va.
 Besides borrowing money from the public, Mr. Zeck manages more than $4 trillion of investments for more than 240 federal trust funds that finance Medicare, Social Security, highway construction and other programs. Assets of these trust funds are invested in special-issue government securities not available to the public.
 Outside his office, Mr. Zeck has a collection of government securities dating to the 1770s. Colonists borrowed money to fight the Revolution, and one of the first major decisions of the new national government was to assume debts incurred by the states.
 ''No pecuniary consideration is more urgent than the regular redemption and discharge of the public debt,'' George Washington told Congress in 1793. Mr. Zeck lives by that motto.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Van Zeck has been helping to manage the government's credit line since 1971. That has been a busy job in recent months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B2) CHART: A GROWING OBLIGATION: Debt held by the public. (Source: Office of Management and Budget
 U.S. Treasury) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); SPACE SHUTTLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); BONDS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); BANK FAILURES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



645 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 143 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index of home prices for June and the second quarter, the consumer confidence index for August and the Federal Housing Finance Agency's home price index for June (Tuesday); durable goods orders for July and new-home sales for July (Wednesday); gross domestic product for the second quarter (Thursday); and personal income and spending for July (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come fromBorders Group, Burger King Holdings, Medtronic and Staples (Tuesday); Toll Brothers (Thursday); and Tiffany & Company (Friday). 
 ET CETERA The Securities and Exchange Commission and Bank of America must file reports to Judge Jed S. Rakoff of United States District Court in Manhattan, with details about $3.6 billion in bonuses paid by Merrill Lynch before Bank of America took it over (Monday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (71%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (57%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (71%); BKW (NYSE) (57%); MDT (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (71%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (71%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (71%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



646 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Asking You to Buy a Couch, Now That You Can't Sell the House

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
BE it ever so humble, there's no place like home -- unless the owners were hoping to flip the joint and cash in.
 With such dreams of sudden wealth having gone the way of Dow 14,000, Americans may be getting used to the idea that they will be living in their current homes or apartments for a while longer. And if they are staying home more, because they cannot afford to take vacation trips or dine out as much as during the boom times, thoughts may be turning to refurnishing, refurbishing and generally sprucing up.
 Those are the underpinnings of an ambitious campaign, with a budget estimated at $20 million, that is scheduled to begin on Monday. The campaign, by agencies that are part of the North American operations of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, a division of WPP, seeks to persuade consumers to start shopping again for furniture and home furnishings. 
 Needless to say, such discretionary merchandise has been particularly hard hit by the buying strike that has affected marketers during the recession in almost every category except, perhaps, groceries and gasoline. Sales of home furnishings fell 0.9 percent in July from June, according to the Commerce Department, and declined 12.9 percent last month compared with July 2008.
 The campaign carries the upbeat theme ''Is it home yet?,'' which will be featured on a logo depicting the phrase embossed across a welcome mat. The theme evokes schmaltzy television commercials from decades ago for Lipton instant soup mix, in which hungry children asked their mothers, ''Is it soup yet?''
 The campaign will include print, outdoor and online advertising; search engine marketing; and promotions and materials in stores. There will also be a celebration of September as ''National Home Furnishings Month'' as well as a special Web site (homeyet.com). 
 ''For the last 10 or 15 years, you looked at your home as a financial investment, but the return on this investment is actually emotional,'' said Robert Maricich, president and chief executive at the World Market Center Las Vegas, a showroom, exhibition space and design center for the furniture industry that was opened in 2005.
 ''It's an investment in your family, or perhaps developing a sanctuary, a place to celebrate life events,'' he added. ''The idea of 'Let's enjoy today; let's enjoy home' isn't such a bad one in these incredible times.''
 The market center is sponsoring the campaign, which is, according to Mr. Maricich, its first ''consumer-facing'' effort -- that is, directed outside the furniture and home furnishings industries. Collaborators include trade organizations like the National Home Furnishings Association and the Western Home Furnishing Association. 
 The campaign is also being endorsed by groups like the American Society of Furniture Designers, along with marketers like Ethan Allen and Furniture Brands International.
 The campaign ''is telling a story we've wanted told a long time,'' said Doug Kays, chairman of the national association and owner of Premiere Home Furnishings in Pacific Palisades, Calif.
 ''For many years, home furnishings has been about discretionary dollars, but those of us in the industry do not feel it's discretionary,'' Mr. Kays said. ''Try sleeping on the floor, sitting on the floor, dining on the floor.''
 The campaign tries to convey those beliefs in a low-key fashion. For example, a family relaxes on a sofa in a print advertisement, appearing in Elle Decor and Metropolitan Home magazines. The lower half of the ad is devoted to a rewritten version of the contents tag attached to the sofa.
 According to the fanciful tag, the sofa is composed of ''22 percent cotton, 13 percent giggles, 15 percent group hugs, 11 percent afternoon naps'' and ''100 percent you wanting to bring it home.'' (The fact it adds up to 161 percent is meant to underline the whimsical nature of the pitch.)
 ''It's funny how new furniture has a way of restoring people,'' the text of the print ad begins. ''Add something special to your home and experience it firsthand.''
 An online version of the ad starts this way: ''The things that fill our home also fulfill us. They become a part of who we are. Giving us joy. Providing us with comfort.''
 The goal is to help the industry face its challenges related to the economy, said Doug Scott, president at Ogilvy Entertainment in New York, one of the Ogilvy North America agencies working on the campaign, by creating an umbrella campaign that would accomplish what ''The fabric of our lives'' has for cotton growers or ''Got milk?'' has for dairy farmers.
 ''We want to move people back to the belief that 'Home is where the heart is,' '' Mr. Scott said, and prove ''there's a lot more 'value' that can be developed in the home beyond economic value.''
 Mr. Scott said he was not underestimating how daunting that task could be.
 ''A dream all us New Yorkers have is real estate moguldom,'' he acknowledged, so images of the home as a would-be jackpot rather than a place to live might linger.
 But for women, the principal buyers of furniture and home furnishings, the role as ''the chief home officer, if you will'' is becoming more important as a family's house is perceived as more of a nest than a piggy bank.
 Mr. Maricich, for his part, also agreed the campaign is ''aggressive'' considering what an ''awful year'' it has been for the industry.
 ''But you just can't sit back and wait for it to come to you,'' he said of a potential recovery. ''By getting in front of consumers, we're at least playing to win.''
 The other agencies working on the campaign include Ogilvy Public Relations; Neo@Ogilvy, for digital tasks; and OgilvyOne, for direct marketing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A print ad encouraging consumers to buy new home furnishings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%)

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (83%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



647 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BETH COURT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2522 words

HEADLINE: With Dad Laid Off, Finding Ways to Hold On

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: MORENO VALLEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
Among the flotsam and jetsam that gather over the years in a home, there is now the random taillight behind the Winklers' living room couch. And a 1967 Buick Riviera dashboard under the desk. When jobs are short and the savings account dwindles, selling spare parts on the Internet can help put braces in mouths, and pay a credit card bill or two. 
 ''Check it out,'' Phil Winkler said, hoisting a chrome piece of trunk onto his lap. ''This one is next.''
 Unemployed for a year, Mr. Winkler, 41, who until last August had never lost a job, has sold his favorite car, canceled the cable and is now scavenging junkyards for auto parts that he resells on eBay. 
 It is a role that Mr. Winkler, a teddy-bearish, clean-cut guy -- the sort whose tattoo from the first gulf war is thoroughly unintimidating -- has stopped wearing with discomfort. It is boring, it is unpleasant, but it is also something he has learned to live with, as he has made the transition from the primary breadwinner for his family of four to its bus driver, disciplinarian, schedule organizer and head chef.
 It is a familiar story here on Beth Court, a cul-de-sac of eight houses about 60 miles east of Los Angeles that The New York Times has visited since January as the financial crisis shredded it bit by bit. Half of the eight houses have been in and out of foreclosure, and in July, for the first time since 2007, all eight homes were finally occupied. That did not last even into August.
 For some families, the strain on Beth Court has meant unraveled marriages. For others, a house taken by the bank. For Mr. Winkler, his wife, Eloisa Sanchez, 37, and their daughters, Kyra and Eva -- the cul-de-sac's longest residents -- it has had an odd side effect of bringing some stability to their family life and to life on the block, where people depend on Mr. Winkler to keep them in the loop and to be vigilant against the deterioration of a neighborhood in transition. 
 For the Winklers, more often than not, the experience has been a study in how spouses can change roles and survive; struggle as a family and still feel better off than a neighbor; and acknowledge unmet expectations while still dreaming of better times. 
 But within the Winkler family, there has also been an unmooring. The family's comfortable middle-class life can no longer be sustained on Ms. Sanchez's job as a dental office manager and checks from Mr. Winkler's unemployment benefits, which he has renewed twice and are set to run out in November. 
 Losing his job has wounded Mr. Winkler's self-esteem and strained his 14-year marriage. In the lexicon of the modern recession, he has found himself at the center of the ''man-cession,'' the downturn that has hit men much harder than women. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the gap in the male-to-female jobless rate is at a record high: 2.4 percent -- 10 percent for men and 7.6 percent for women. 
 While Ms. Sanchez says the hardship has brought the family closer together, Mr. Winkler conceded that sometimes too much time with a spouse can seem like a bad thing. They have found that fights about Ms. Sanchez's spending too much at the mall have been replaced with arguments about how best to discipline the kids.
 ''Being out of work for that long, you get kind of antsy,'' Mr. Winkler said. ''Our biggest fights before were credit cards. But I don't have it to spend anymore anyway.'' 
 And although the eBay sales have been an unexpected blessing, months go by with all job inquiries met with silence.
 ''I'm starting to sweat it,'' Mr. Winkler, clutching an unemployment check stub, said in one particularly disheartening moment in the spring. ''We have to start practicing acting poor.''
 The Winklers began their lives in Moreno Valley a dozen years ago, like so many people before them, learning the city's name only when they decided to move here. Priced out of Hacienda Heights, a working-class town closer to Los Angeles, expecting their first child and wanting desperately to own their own place, they began searching. 
 First they looked in Chino, closer to Los Angeles. Still, too expensive. Six months went by, looking, looking, looking. The real estate agent said to consider Moreno Valley in Riverside County. The quiet spot on Beth Court in the shadow of Box Springs Mountain beckoned, and they became the block's third residents in 1997, buying a three-bedroom stucco house with a two-car garage. 
 Becoming a Community
 It was not long before Beth Court grew into a community of families, tucked away from the adjoining street where renters filled smaller houses and trouble sometimes visited. Mr. Winkler compared the cul-de-sac to the United Nations, with Latinos, a few African-Americans and a family from the Philippines. 
 In a city like Moreno Valley, which sprang up from dust over the last two decades as Los Angeles reached eastward into the desert, one does not have to be old to be the block historian. The Winklers have filled the role with aplomb.
 Wonder who used to live in the house down the block, and who is about to lose theirs to the bank? Whose children are well behaved, and whose need to be watched because they sometimes wander into homes unbidden? 
 The Winklers can tell you. Their daughters will watch your cats while you are on vacation, and Mr. Winkler might just fix your broken sprinkler, too, before you get back. They remember who has come and gone, and the acts of kindness and malfeasance while here. 
 It is not uncommon to find a neighbor, troubled in marriage or finances, sipping coffee at the Winkler table while Ms. Sanchez folds another pile of ubiquitous laundry and gives counsel.
 ''I've been in every house on this block,'' Mr. Winkler said one day in the fading afternoon sun. ''We try to keep an eye on each other's kids; we have our own little neighborhood watch, that kind of thing.''
 Unlike some of their neighbors, who over the years have used their home equity to add a hot tub or buy a fancy new truck, the Winklers had been squirreling their savings away to trade up on a new home, borrowing only to buy a much needed car.
 Two years ago, with housing prices soaring and Eva and Kyra getting toward middle school, the Winklers started to wonder about something bigger. Rooms were closing in. Family belongings appeared to grow under the couch. The schools were better in nearby Orange Crest. 
 They paid $110,000 for the house in 1997, almost fully financed, and had taken out $15,000 in equity. As their neighbors' homes sold for or were valued at over $300,000, they knew they could get enough to put something down on a bigger and better place. 
 For almost two years, Mr. Winkler had worked on the production line at the Nestle Waters bottle factory in nearby Ontario, Calif., and before that for 14 years in another factory. If Nestle were to move, he figured, there were plenty of other jobs to be had. 
 What was more, Ms. Sanchez was doing well at the dental office. It was time to trade up, they decided. This is how homeownership was meant to work. They even started looking around.
 But then early last year, the foreclosure crisis that has swept California and much of the nation came to Beth Court. First the Winklers' next-door neighbor lost her home. Then another neighbor did, too. The next-door neighbor on the other side sold his house and now rents it back. 
 By last August, the problems had swooped toward the Winklers. Mr. Winkler was laid off, along with 30 other workers at the bottle company. Home values plummeted; dreams of trading up were dashed when the Winklers' home was revalued at around $150,000, half of its estimated peak.
 For the Winklers, two salaries had never meant extravagant spending or fancy vacations, but the means of keeping the girls ''out of trouble,'' as Ms. Sanchez likes to say. Though between their cat sitting, Wii bowling matches and flopping on the bed with a book from the Twilight series (Eva) or the Wolf Brothers (Kyra), the girls seem to do a pretty good job of behaving even without costly distractions.
 Still, changes were in order. 
 Choir practice is free. Catechism is cheap. Those became the rhythms of life during the winter months -- school, homework, church on Sunday, the occasional concert. 
 By spring, the Winkler home was filled with the joyful sensation of the winding down of school, but this year there were no swimming lessons to look forward to, ''no more shopping at random,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''We have to plan out what we will be spending the money on.''
 This spring, Kyra, who is 10, needed new eyeglasses, but she did not get the light-sensitive ones this time. Too expensive. Both girls are getting braces, which would normally cost a prohibitive $10,000 but were knocked down to a more affordable $6,100 because of Ms. Sanchez's employment in the dental office. That price still does not include the dental surgery that Kyra will eventually need. 
 Eva, 12, bit deeply into a tomato pulled from the vine in the backyard. Her mother is proud of those plants, which thrive under the relentless desert sun as long as they are properly watered and cared for. It is a small culinary pleasure, and a low-cost one at that, now that dinners at the little Italian place down the road are a memory, as are margaritas at the Mexican restaurant and pizza at the strip mall.
 ''We used to eat out Friday nights,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''No more. We don't buy anything big either.'' 
 On the block all day, Mr. Winkler sees people coming to look at the empty homes, but most leave quickly. One day, he heard the sounds of a fighter jet in the distance and pondered something he read in the local paper about the possible reopening of the nearby Air Force base, which ceased active-duty operations in the mid-1990s. 
 ''That would be great,'' he said, and made his way to the mailbox for a pile of bills. 
 Dreams on Hold
 Mr. Winkler had taken a test for a job at the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. It had gone well, but there was still no word. He wonders when he goes to job fairs why the Riverside County Sheriff's Department is always there. He had passed its test, but never heard from them. He took another test to work in the Kimberly-Clark factory nearby. Passed that one, too. 
 Dreams are not dashed, his wife insisted; they are placed on hold. ''We just have to see what's coming next,'' she said. 
 It was vintage Ms. Sanchez. As Mr. Winkler vacillates between dark humor and frustration over his protracted unemployment, his wife focuses on what could be worse.
 Many of the women of Beth Court have lived traditional lives, often standing in the shadow of their husbands. They would slip away when a reporter came calling, letting their husbands do the talking. But Ms. Sanchez has been different.
 Ms. Sanchez lets her thoughts be known, and when it comes to her troubled block, her central message has been that men should be held accountable for the undoing of their families' homes through financial folly.
 When one neighbor slipped quietly into the house for some girl chat one afternoon, Ms. Sanchez, carefully folding socks, lectured her on not letting her husband lose the house to the bank. That advice, she would say later, fell on deaf ears.
 ''It's frustrating,'' she said. ''But people have their own ways.''
 Her grip on her girls is loving and firm. Pull your shirt down, Eva. Stop asking for sweets, Kyra, when you know you gave it up for Lent. Her musings -- even those rendered most critically -- are rarely done without a smile. Lately, she has been reading ''The Secret,'' the New Age self-help book by Rhonda Byrne. 
 One day last winter, Ms. Sanchez stood in her doorway, still wearing her pink dental scrubs and clutching a sweater around her arms. February is cold in the desert, and the sun sets early. Parents whistle for their children when dinner is ready.
 Ms. Sanchez feels mad sometimes, she confessed, at her former next-door neighbor -- and best friend -- who lost her house to foreclosure. Their children were growing up together, but no more. 
 ''I was kind of angry when she moved,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''You can't make stupid choices,'' she added, referring to the large amounts of cash her former neighbor's husband drew on their home's equity.
 One of four children of Mexican immigrants, Ms. Sanchez has almost always worked to help the family. When summer arrived and Mr. Winkler found an ingenious way to pay for the girls' braces, Ms. Sanchez was at his side, combing the county junkyards, buying an old ashtray here, a chrome piece there. He studies other sellers on eBay, then posts and sells. The girls' braces are already almost paid for. 
 ''I think it helps the relationship when you are together a lot more -- it will remind us of why we are together,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''When you work all the time, you don't get to spend as much time as you would like together. But I guess it would just depend on the person, if they would want to be together all the time. I really enjoy it.'' 
 Mr. Winkler offered a more nuanced view.
 ''It's stressful,'' he said. ''I've got to be questioning everything Eloisa buys.''
 When asked together about unemployment and marriage, hardship and love, both looked away. Clearly the past year has not been easy for either of them, but sharing such intimacies is not their way.
 The girls have not been shaded from the harsh realities of economic stress -- their parents speak openly about the crushing cost of proper dental care and the dwindling unemployment checks -- but nor do they seem to carry its burdens. In numerous conversations with a reporter, neither girl mentioned their father's unemployment.
 A Smaller Gathering
 Memorial Day weekend came, and Mr. Winkler threw some burgers on the grill, and, as he does every year, opened the backyard to the neighbors. A couple who live around the corner on Parkland Avenue were still jetlagged from a trip to Europe, but they came to have a bite and see how Ms. Sanchez's tomato plants were holding up and whether the girls were studying their singing.
 It might have been a larger crowd in the past, but two new sets of neighbors were just moving in that weekend. 
 In July, after four months of no response from potential employers, Mr. Winkler found himself with three job interviews and one call back, from Ruskin Manufacturing for a possible production supervisor job. But as of this week, still no job. 
 The couple also recently decided to take assessment tests at the local junior college -- neither has a college degree -- to make themselves more desirable to potential employers.
 ''It's so hard to get a job anymore, we have realized, unless you want one that pays these little minimum wages,'' Ms. Sanchez said.
 Mr. Winkler passed his test with honors, but she is less confident about her coming exam. Still, she will do it. 
 ''It's to show the girls who is successful,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''Kids learn by example.''
 Articles in this series explore how a block of eight homes in Moreno Valley, Calif., about 60 miles from Los Angeles, has been reshaped by the housing bust and recession. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eloisa Sanchez helping her husband with a job application. (pg.A1)
 Eloisa Sanchez and her daughter Eva at their home on Beth Court, a cul-de-sac in Moreno Valley, Calif. The family has seen many neighbors leave. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); FAMILY (89%); MARRIAGE (87%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



648 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Asia's Recovery Highlights China's Ascendance

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Nadim Audi contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
In past global slowdowns, the United States invariably led the way out, followed by Europe and the rest of the world. But for the first time, the catalyst is coming from China and the rest of Asia, where resurgent economies are helping the still-shaky West recover from the deepest recession since World War II.
 Economists have long predicted that an increasingly powerful China would come to rival and eventually surpass the United States in economic influence. While the American economy is still more than three times the size of China's, the nascent global recovery suggests that this long-anticipated change could arrive sooner than had been expected. 
 Such a shift would have significant ramifications for the United States and the rest of the West, even after the global economic recovery takes hold. 
 ''The economic center of gravity has been shifting for some time, but this recession marks a turning point,'' said Neal Soss, chief economist for Credit Suisse in New York. ''It's Asia that's lifting the world, rather than the U.S., and that's never happened before.''
 China's government-dominated, top-down economy is surging after Chinese banks doled out more than $1 trillion in loans in the first half of the year, in addition to a nearly $600 billion government stimulus program. 
 Though the benefits are manifest, some economists wonder whether China is laying the groundwork for sustainable growth or just increasing its export capacity despite more frugal spending habits on the part of Western consumers.
 ''The big question is what happens next,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. ''If the consumer in the United States and Europe doesn't come back, I'm not sure Asia has a Plan B.''
 But robust demand among Chinese consumers and businesses is one reason oil prices have doubled to more than $70 a barrel since bottoming out early this year, and China is likely to keep buying American debt as Washington borrows heavily to finance its myriad stimulus and bailout plans.
 The United States is also being shoved aside as the make-or-break customer for export-driven nations like Germany and Japan. China overtook the United States as Japan's leading trading partner in the first half of 2009, while in Europe manufacturers are looking east instead of west. 
 ''What we're losing in the trans-Atlantic trade with the U.S., we are gaining in China,'' said Jens Nagel, head of the international department of the German Exporters Association.
 In the near term, however, the United States should benefit from a resurgent Asia, as the American economy finally begins growing again, as expected in the second half of 2009.
 ''Vigorous rebounds overseas, particularly in East Asia, suggest that U.S. imports and exports will soon improve,'' Mr. Soss said. 
 Last week, Hewlett-Packard pointed to double-digit revenue growth in China as a rare bright spot in an otherwise lackluster earnings report. Meanwhile, overall American exports to China have already been picking up, rising to $5.5 billion in June from $4.1 billion in January. 
 ''The numbers are volatile, but the trend is clear,'' said Robert Brusca of FAO Economics in New York. ''It's a big contrast with Japan, where U.S. exports are still dropping, but China is different.'' 
 Of course, other factors have played a significant role in helping the global economy begin to stabilize, including trillions of dollars in support from central banks for frozen credit markets, as well as bailouts and rescues of major financial institutions, insurers and automobile companies.
 But as the engine for future demand growth shifts from the government back to the private sector, and Americans remain wary of returning to their free-spending ways, Asian consumption is expected to pick up at least some of the slack. And if China does slow, as some experts fear it could in the second half of 2009, the United States' effort to climb out of recession could be that much harder.
 After the recession of 2001-2 and the slowdown in the early 1990s, the American economy served as the global locomotive, said Michael Saunders, head of European economics research for Citigroup.
 Back then, he said, China and other Asian countries lacked huge cash reserves that could buttress them in the event of recession. But in the last decade, China has enjoyed huge trade surpluses with the West, and it holds $2.13 trillion in foreign reserves, solidifying its position as a rapidly emerging economic power. 
 Citigroup recently increased its estimate for annual Chinese economic growth to 8.7 percent in 2009 from 8.2 percent, and to 9.8 percent next year from 8.8 percent.
 While economists like Mr. Soss expect that growth to spill over to the United States shortly, the effect is already visible in Europe. 
 Indeed, after the French and German economies shocked most economists this month by turning in positive performances for the second quarter, the normally conservative Deutsche Bank released a report titled, ''Eurozone Q2 GDP: Made in China?''
 For now, the answer seems to be yes. ''It's quite amazing, because usually Asia doesn't play such a big role in European exports or output,'' said Gilles Moec, senior European economist with Deutsche Bank in London.
 French exports to China and other East Asian economies rose 18.7 percent in the second quarter, according to customs data, a sharp turnaround from the 16.2 percent drop recorded in the previous quarter. Overall exports to the region from the 16 countries that use the euro currency increased 6.3 percent in the second quarter, reversing a 6.2 percent drop in the first quarter, Mr. Moec said.
 While Western European countries have been more timid about embarking on big spending programs because of their already mounting deficits, and European banks took huge hits on their holdings of subprime American debt, Beijing does not face either obstacle.
 In the first half of 2009, Chinese banks lent a record $1.1 trillion in new loans, setting off fears that the lending binge might create a bubble over the long term.
 China's moves have also helped its neighbors increase industrial production sharply from recession lows. Since hitting a trough in late 2008 and early 2009, industrial production has jumped 28 percent in Korea and 26 percent in Taiwan. In July, American industrial production rose for the first time since December 2007, but it remains just half a percentage point above the bottom in June.
 ''Asia is still relatively small in the world, but it reflects how the world is changing, and economic power does translate, of course, into political power,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund and now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''You can use it to win friends and influence people, as the Chinese are already doing in Africa and Latin America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction at an underground site in Eastern China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B1)
 A bridge being built in Zhengzhou, in Henan Province. China's economy is surging, helped by a nearly $600 billion stimulus plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONALD CHAN/REUTERS) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); BANKING IN CHINA (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HENAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (96%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



649 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BENDHEIM, ROBERT

 BODY:
BENDHEIM--Robert, former president and chairman of M. Lowenstein Corporation, died on Friday, August 21st in Greenwich, CT. He was 93. Mr. Bendheim lived in Greenwich, and had a home in Lyford Cay, Nassau. The Lowenstein Company was a major textile firm, which manufactured apparel and industrial fabrics, and Wamsutta and Pacific home furnishings. Mr. Bendheim started with the company as a trainee in 1946, and served as its chief executive officer from 1972 until 1985, when the company sold to Springs Industries. 
During this same period, Mr. Bendheim was also an officer and director of the Leon Lowenstein Foundation, Inc., serving as its president since 1976. The Foundation bears the name of Mr. Bendheim's uncle, Leon Lowenstein, who started the Foundation in 1941. The Foundation's principal grants are for medical research and education. Over the years, large grants have been given to Mt. Sinai, Columbia Presbyterian, and Sloan Kettering medical centers, and in education, to Princeton and Fordham universities, the Wharton School of Economics, and programs for improvement of the New York City public schools. Mr. Bendheim graduated from Princeton University in 1937 and attended the Harvard Business School. He served in the United States Navy as a lieutenant from 1942 to 1946, and he received an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Fordham University in 1966. He was on the Board of Trustees of Mt. Sinai Hospital, the Boards of Fordham University, and United Way of New York, and served on various committees of Princeton University. His clubs included the Round Hill and Stanwich in Greenwich, Lyford Cay in Nassau, the Princeton Club and the River Club in New York City. He is survived by his beloved wife, Jane, his two daughters by a previous marriage, Lynn Bendheim Thoman and Kim Bendheim, his step-daughter, Josephine Poole, his brother, John M. Bendheim of Scarsdale, New York, and four grandchildren. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street on Thursday, August 27th, at 11:30am. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Bendheim Finance Center at Princeton University, or Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TEXTILES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); FABRICS (72%); NAVIES (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (83%); US NAVY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



650 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: About Your 401(k)

 BODY:
Even before the financial crisis, most Americans were not saving enough for retirement. But the crisis has highlighted, and heightened, the risk of coming up short, as is clear to anyone who has dared to open his or her 401(k) statements in the past year. 
 Even with recent stock market upswings, account balances are roughly 25 percent lower than before the crash. Such losses are especially harmful to employees who are near retirement and will not have enough time to rebuild their accounts; they will either have to work longer, if they can, or make do with less. 
 Market losses aren't the only danger. Some employees will end up with smaller account balances because they reduced contributions when times got tough. Fidelity Investments, which manages 11.2 million 401(k) accounts, reported recently that from mid-2008 through the first quarter of 2009, more employees reduced their contributions than increased them. That trend reversed in the second quarter, but over all, employees are still contributing less of their pay than they did last year. 
 To make matters worse, some employers have cut their 401(k) matches as the economy has tanked. So both employees and employers pulled back, just as stocks were getting cheaper. 
 In good times and bad, account balances are wiped out when job-changers, including laid-off workers, decide to cash out when they leave an employer. And younger workers tend to borrow from their 401(k), slowing the account's growth and risking big losses -- plus taxes and penalty -- if they can't repay the loan in full.
 As a result of risks and mistakes, most American workers who are relying on 401(k)'s fail to amass anywhere near what they will need for a secure retirement.
 That is not to say that the 401(k) system must be dismantled. But reforms that once seemed far-reaching -- like automatically enrolling employees in 401(k)'s unless they opt out -- now seem quaint. A more thorough revamping is needed. 
 Tax incentives must be changed. Under current law, high-income employees receive the biggest tax subsidies, and low-income employees the smallest. Replacing the current tax deduction for contributions with a tax credit would still give everyone a tax break, but would shift the benefit down the income scale, presumably boosting the savings of low-income workers.
 The Obama administration should also push for comprehensive retirement coverage. Less than half of employees have a retirement plan at work. The so-called universal I.R.A. advocated by President Obama during the campaign would help make a retirement account available to all workers. Pre-retirement payouts from 401(k)'s and universal I.R.A.'s should be discouraged except in cases of real hardship, like disability. One way to do that would be to require employers to roll over a 401(k) to a new account when an employee changes jobs. 
 A thornier problem is that even someone who steadily contributes to a 401(k) and makes sensible investments can end up with too little -- depending on whether the markets are up or down as retirement nears. 
 A calculation by Gary Burtless of the Brookings Institution showed that a 401(k) participant who retired in 2008 after contributing 4 percent of pay over 40 years and investing in a conservative mix of stocks and bonds would be able to replace a fourth of his pre-retirement income. That is only half as much as a similar worker who retired during the bull market in 1999, but far better than retiring in 1974 when markets were in a swoon.
 The only way to avoid wide variations in outcomes would be to develop a savings plan in which the government shared the risk -- say, by providing a guarantee that returns would not fall below a certain level. The issue is complex and deserves further study and debate.
 The effect of these and other proposed retirement reforms would be to shift risk that is currently borne by individuals onto corporations and the government. That would be anathema to some entrenched corporate interests and their political supporters. But as the recent crisis has so amply demonstrated, having each and every American bear all of the risk is not the path to a secure retirement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



651 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Obama Team Lacking Most Of Top Players

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As President Obama tries to turn around a summer of setbacks, he finds himself still without most of his own team. Seven months into his presidency, fewer than half of his top appointees are in place advancing his agenda.
 Of more than 500 senior policymaking positions requiring Senate confirmation, just 43 percent have been filled -- a reflection of a White House that grew more cautious after several nominations blew up last spring, a Senate that is intensively investigating nominees and a legislative agenda that has consumed both.
 While career employees or holdovers fill many posts on a temporary basis, Mr. Obama does not have his own people enacting programs central to his mission. He is trying to fix the financial markets but does not have an assistant treasury secretary for financial markets. He is spending more money on transportation than anyone since Dwight D. Eisenhower but does not have his own inspector general watching how the dollars are used. He is fighting two wars but does not have an Army secretary.
 He sent Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to Africa to talk about international development but does not have anyone running the Agency for International Development. He has invited major powers to a summit on nuclear nonproliferation but does not have an assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation. 
 ''If you're running G.M. without half your senior executives in place, are you worried? I'd say your stockholders would be going nuts,'' said Terry Sullivan, a professor at the University of North Carolina and executive director of the White House Transition Project, a scholarly program that tracks appointments. ''The notion of the American will -- it's not being thwarted, but it's slow to come to fruition.''
 Mrs. Clinton expressed the exasperation of many in the administration last month when she was asked by A.I.D. employees why they did not have a chief. ''The clearance and vetting process is a nightmare,'' she told them. ''And it takes far longer than any of us would want to see. It is frustrating beyond words.''
 The process of assembling a new administration has frustrated presidents for years, a point brought home when George W. Bush received the now-famous memorandum titled ''Bin Ladin Determined to Strike U.S.'' eight years ago this month but still did not have most of his national security team in place when planes smashed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
 All parties vowed to fix the process, and Mr. Obama has a more intact national security team than his predecessor at this point. But even in this area, vital offices remain open. No Obama appointee is running the Transportation Security Administration, the Customs and Border Protection agency, the Drug Enforcement Administration or the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Mr. Obama still does not have an intelligence chief at the Department of Homeland Security, nor a top civilian in charge of military readiness at the Pentagon.
 Mr. Obama is far enough along in his presidency that some early appointees are already leaving even before the last of the first round have assumed their posts. Among those who have left already is the person charged with filling the empty offices, Donald H. Gips, who quit as presidential personnel director to go to South Africa as ambassador last month.
 The consequences can be felt in small ways and large -- from the extra work for appointees on the job to the slowdown of policy reviews and development. For example, Mr. Obama's promised cybersecurity initiative to improve coordination among government agencies and the private sector has stalled while he looks for someone to lead it.
 ''There's every reason to be concerned,'' said Jim Manley, spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader. ''The president deserves to have his full complement of staff in the different agencies.''
 But the White House expressed less concern because by its count it has matched or surpassed past presidents in putting together its government. ''Given that we're ahead of where previous administrations have been, we feel we're moving at a fairly quick clip to get everything done,'' said Bill Burton, a deputy White House press secretary.
 Measuring the progress in appointments depends on what positions are counted and who is doing the counting. The White House Transition Project counts 543 policymaking jobs requiring Senate confirmation in four top executive ranks. As of last week, Mr. Obama had announced his selections for 319 of those positions, and the Senate had confirmed 236, or 43 percent of the top echelon of government. Other scholars have slightly different but similar tallies.
 The White House prefers to include ambassadors, United States attorneys, marshals and judges, who are also subject to Senate votes but are not counted by the scholars. By that count, Mr. Obama has won confirmation of 304 nominees, compared with 301 for Mr. Bush, 253 for Bill Clinton and 212 for the first President George Bush at this point in their administrations.
 If lower-ranking senior executive service officials and political appointees who do not require Senate approval are counted, the White House said it had installed 1,830 people, at least 50 percent more than any of the last three presidents had at this stage.
 No matter how the counting is done, though, hundreds of senior positions remain empty with 15 percent of Mr. Obama's term over. While appointments linger, those jobs are generally filled with acting officials -- and the White House says that has not slowed its ability to effect change.
 But acting officials do not have the full latitude that confirmed appointees do. ''It's just not the same thing,'' said Paul Light, a professor at New York University who specializes in appointments. ''They don't have the same authority. They don't feel the same loyalties or freedom to exert control. And what you get is drift in the agencies.''
 Blame is being freely passed around. After several early nominees were discovered to have failed to pay some taxes, the White House tightened its vetting. The Senate Finance Committee has a former Internal Revenue Service official helping to go through many nominees' taxes. And Republican senators are holding up nominees like John McHugh for Army secretary to influence what happens to the detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 The Finance Committee argued that fault lay elsewhere. Scott Mulhauser, a spokesman for the panel, said it had approved 14 of 16 nominees whose paperwork was received before July. But officials said the process had become so intrusive that many candidates declined to be considered.
 ''Anyone who has gone through it or looked at this process will tell you that every administration it gets worse and it gets more cumbersome,'' Mrs. Clinton said last month. ''And some very good people, you know, just didn't want to be vetted.'' She added: ''You have to hire lawyers, you have to hire accountants. I mean, it is ridiculous.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: EMPTY POSITIONS: Of the more than 500 senior government positions that require Senate confirmation, fewer than half had been filled as of last week. The vacancies include many cabinet department positions. (Source: The White House Transition Project) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (83%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ARMIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); FIREARMS (60%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



652 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Defying an Industry Trend, Warner Is Easily the Top Producer of TV Shows

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Three years ago, J. J. Abrams had to decide whether to keep making television shows for the Walt Disney Company or move to a new home base. A bidding war had broken out for him.
 Mr. Abrams, credited with ''Alias'' and ''Lost,'' signed a rich television deal with Warner Brothers: up to $6 million a year in fees and overhead, and a big percentage of revenue from DVD and syndication sales. ''It was the overwhelming enthusiasm and sense of support that intoxicated me,'' Mr. Abrams said in an interview.
 The wooing of Mr. Abrams epitomizes one reason Warner's television unit is heading into the fall season with an astonishing 45 shows in production, easily making the company the No. 1 television supplier. As networks more blatantly favor internal suppliers, Warner, which is not aligned with a major network, has kept its batting average high by maintaining a deep bench of all-star producers.
 The track record of the television division, officially called the Warner Brothers Television Group, is coming under increased scrutiny as its corporate parent, Time Warner, retools itself in both form and function. By shedding AOL and its cable infrastructure businesses, Time Warner is placing added weight on operations that have been relatively invisible, like TV production. 
 Hollywood's attention, meanwhile, is starting to focus more intently on who will succeed Barry M. Meyer, who is expected to retire as chairman of the combined movie and television studio in 2011. Although there are several potential candidates, there is a precedent for plucking leaders from the lower-wattage arena of TV production: Mr. Meyer previously ran that side of the studio.
 Running it now is Bruce Rosenblum, an ardently affable executive who has worked at the company for more than 20 years. While friends and colleagues say Mr. Rosenblum, 51, has made it clear he wants the top job, he declined to comment. Speaking generally, he said, ''The success of the Warner Brothers Television Group isn't a story about me or any individual on our executive team.''
 Other significant players in the succession derby are considered to be Jeff Robinov, president of the Warner Brothers Pictures Group, and Kevin Tsujihara, president of the Warner Brothers Home Entertainment Group. A Time Warner spokesman, Edward I. Adler, said, ''Any such speculation about succession at Warner Brothers is premature.''
 Few people in Hollywood, much less the average television viewer, realize the scope of Warner's television studio. It starts with the talent deals.
 The division's prime-time stable includes producers like Jerry Bruckheimer (''Cold Case''), Chuck Lorre (''Two and a Half Men''), John Wells (''ER''), David E. Kelley (''Boston Legal''), Max Mutchnick (''Will & Grace''), Mike Fleiss (''The Bachelor'') and Josh Schwartz (''Gossip Girl''). Mr. Abrams is starting to deliver results with ''Fringe,'' which will return to Fox for a second season on Sept. 17.
 The division also runs Warner Brothers Animation, the home of Looney Tunes, and a daytime unit called Telepictures Productions, which produces ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show,'' ''The People's Court'' and ''Extra,'' among others. ''Our programming is relatable and upbeat -- an antidote to the times,'' said Hilary E. McLoughlin, president of Telepictures.
 Warner Brothers Television is also home to TMZ.com, one of the most successful digital ventures in Hollywood, and a spin-off series.
 The movie side gets the public spotlight -- it is hard to compete for attention with $250 million film releases like ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince'' -- but the television division has delivered 50 percent of Warner's overall profit for the last five years on about $3.5 billion in revenue. Annual profit at the whole studio is about $10 billion.
 The division has its share of problems.
 Succession is an issue even in this corner of the Time Warner empire, especially among the ranks of executives who focus directly on creative matters. The studio is a co-owner with CBS of the tiny CW network, which is still losing money three years after the companies promised investors that it would be profitable. (The recession has not eased that task.)
 The Big Four networks, meanwhile, complain that Warner, more than any of the other TV suppliers, overspends on pilots to secure orders and does not come through with the necessary weekly budgets to maintain that initial sizzle. It is one reason cited for the demise of Warner shows like ''Pushing Daisies,'' which ABC dumped after two seasons.
 Studios typically sell shows to networks at a loss; the studio makes money by selling reruns after a lot of episodes are in the can (usually four seasons' worth). International buyers are crucial.
 The television business over all is also going through a brutal retrenchment, and Warner as the largest studio is particularly exposed. Because most TV programs attract smaller live audiences today than in years past, they also sell for smaller syndication fees, putting pressure on Warner's hugely expensive talent deals. (The company said that Mr. Abrams's contract is not representative of others.)
 Hit situation comedies, for instance, have become more scarce. Warner has done better than most -- it has ''Two and a Half Men'' and ''The Big Bang Theory'' (also from Mr. Lorre) -- but more typical for the business now is ''The New Adventures of Old Christine,'' a critically acclaimed series starring Julia Louis-Dreyfus that has been only a middling ratings performer.
 Warner's ''Friends'' sold into syndication for more than $4 million an episode in 1998; all told, ''Old Christine,'' just recently sold into syndication, will fetch a little over $1 million an episode.
 ''There's an increased awareness that we have to be more proactive in managing costs,'' Mr. Rosenblum said.
 Still, analysts say the division's success is stunning, particularly against the backdrop of the industry as a whole and the closer alignment of networks with internal studios.
 Despite a desire at Disney for ABC to buy the bulk of its shows from the ABC Television Studio, for instance, Warner managed to sell six new programs to the network for the coming season, including a remake of the cult hit ''V'' from the 1980s. Mr. Rosenblum credited Warner's independent status -- creative giants like Mr. Abrams do not like being confined to one network buyer -- as the primary reason.
 ''We've turned that disadvantage into an advantage,'' he said.
 Network buyers describe Warner's selling style as brutal but open-minded. ''They've been receptive to making certain accommodations, but historically have been tougher than everybody else,'' said Nancy Tellem, president of the CBS Television Network Entertainment Group. 
 Mr. Rosenblum said, ''We try not to kill people. It's a small town, and we're going to be negotiating with these executives and agents again and again.''
 Warner has also expanded heavily into cheaper production for cable -- the studio produces ''The Closer'' for TNT and ''High School Reunion'' for TV Land -- and Mr. Rosenblum has been more aggressive than some rivals at embracing the digital arena.
 Not all digital efforts have been slam dunks. TheWB.com, home to Web originals and reruns of older teenage-focused shows like ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer,'' is an undercapitalized misstep to some industry watchers. Others see it as a cheap way to keep that brand alive. The division's MomLogic.com is struggling to catch up.
 But TMZ.com is a hit. Harvey Levin, the founder of the celebrity news site, credits Mr. Rosenblum as part of the reason -- because he left Mr. Levin alone. 
 ''I don't think TMZ would necessarily have happened in another part of the company,'' Mr. Levin said. ''We've been allowed to experiment and make mistakes, which is rare. Taking that leap of faith is incredibly hard for a lot of corporate managers.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the Warner Brothers Television Group misstated the financial performance of Warner Brothers. The studio's annual revenue -- not its profit -- is $10 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two of the many shows produced by Warner Brothers are ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show,'' a talk show, and ''The New Adventures of Old Christine,'' a comedy series starring Julia Louis-Dreyfus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL ROZMAN/WARNER BROTHERS TELEVISION ENTERTAINMENT
MICHAEL ANSELL/WARNER BROTHERS TELEVISION ENTERTAINMENT)
Barry M. Meyer, left, is the chairman of Warner Brothers Entertainment. Bruce Rosenblum is the president of the Warner Brothers Television Group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES FOR AFI
 ADAM TAYLOR/WARNER BROTHERS TELEVISION ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FILM (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (91%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%)

PERSON: J J ABRAMS (90%); JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



653 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Lieberman Suggests Health Care Reform May Have to Wait

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER and DERRICK HENRY

 BODY:
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut on Sunday urged the Obama administration to consider postponing overhauling the health care system and instead work on smaller chunks of the issue until the economy improves.
 ''I'm afraid we've got to think about putting a lot of that off until the economy's out of recession,'' Mr. Lieberman said on CNN's ''State of the Union.'' ''There's no reason we have to do it all now, but we do have to get started. And I think the place to start is cost health delivery reform and insurance market reforms.''
 Mr. Lieberman's comments could further complicate Democratic efforts to get a health care overhaul passed in Congress. They had been depending on the independent senator to support their efforts, even though he often aligns with Republicans.
 In the Senate, 60 votes would be needed to overcome any Republican filibuster, and the Democrats control 60 votes, including those of two independents. However, Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia have been ill. On top of that, moderate Democrats have signaled that they might not support every proposal. 
 Mr. Lieberman credited Mr. Obama for taking on the heath care issue, but noted that ''he took it on at a very difficult time that was not of his making.'' The senator said he believed health care reform debate has intensified partly because of the general nervousness over the economy.
 Also Sunday, Senator John McCain said that one way for Democrats and Republicans to reach a compromise would be for Mr. Obama to abandon a government-run insurance program for the nation's 49 million uninsured.
 Interviewed on ABC's ''This Week with George Stephanopoulos'' Mr. McCain, the Arizona Republican and 2008 presidential candidate, said that a public plan would cause many Americans to lose their private health insurance. Although he was not asked to explain, opponents of a government-run plan have previously warned that many employers would scuttle private insurance for their workers if such a program were enacted.
 ''Certainly if you have it, you shouldn't have to lose it,'' Mr. McCain said of private insurance. ''But under the president's plan, you would have to lose it in my view because of the government option. I believe that one of the fundamentals for any agreement would be that the president abandon the government option.''
 Last week, Kathleen Sebelius, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, said that a government-run plan was not essential to an overhaul, a concession to United States senators who say such a plan could not win the backing of a majority of the crucial Senate Finance Committee. The focus shifted to discussion of nonprofit medical co-operatives, which are popular in some Midwestern states and more palatable to conservatives. But outrage by liberals supporting a government plan has made the fate of that provision unclear.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat and a member of the Finance committee, said on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' that President Obama ''believes strongly in a public option.''
 He argued that a government plan was imperative because it would introduce competition in the industry. In 40 of the 50 states, he said, as few as two companies rule the private health insurance market. A government program, he said, ''doesn't have to make a profit or merchandise as much, so its costs are probably 20 percent lower.''
 But on the same show, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican and a member of the same finance panel, predicted that ''tens of millions of people will go into the government plan'' against their will. And, he added, the problem with government plans like Medicare is they are not sufficiently financed. Medicare, he said, will go bankrupt within 10 years.
 ''The costs of the government plan will be astronomical,'' he said. ''Keep in mind, in Medicare they pay doctors 20 percent less, they pay hospitals 30 percent less. Guess where those costs are transferred? They're transferred to the people who have private health insurance, and the average private health insurance policy goes up about $1,800 a year just to pay for what the government fails to pay for in their current government plan.''
 But on CBS's ''Face the Nation,'' Howard B. Dean, former governor of Vermont and former chair of the Democratic National Committee, said a government program would be far cheaper than any private alternatives. Mr. Dean said that only 80 percent of the revenue of private insurance companies goes to medical care while the rest becomes profits for investors in the insurance company and for costs like administration. With Medicare, he said, 96 percent of revenue ends up being spent on actual health care. 
 Senator McCain said President Obama is as much to blame as Republicans for the paralysis on health care legislation because ''the president has not come forward with a plan of his own.'' He lamented the absence of Senator Kennedy, who is ailing with brain cancer, from the Congressional debate. Senator Kennedy, he said, has had ''a unique way'' of getting Senators ''sitting down at the table and making the right concessions.''
 While Mr. McCain rejected the term ''death panels'' -- deployed by his running mate, Sarah Palin -- but he said that the language in some bills would have created boards to decide what procedures would be allowed for the terminally sick and dying.
 ''Doesn't that open the door to the possibility of rationing?'' he asked.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, explained on ''Face the Nation'' why language about paying for end-of-life counseling had to be taken out of a health care bill the committee was reviewing in March.
 ''We were not going to have any of this end-of-life stuff because it scares people,'' he said.
 On Fox News Sunday, Jim Towey, director of faith-based initiatives during the administration of George W. Bush, said end-of-life counseling is already taking place for soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. He criticized the Veterans Administration for using a booklet called ''Your Life, Your Choices'' to help injured veterans decide which medical treatments they would choose. On one page, he said, veterans are asked ''What makes your life worth living?'' and some of the choices include confinement to a wheelchair, placement in a nursing home and severely burdening a family's finances Such questions, he said, were ''kind of pushing people toward a predetermined conclusion.''
 The booklet, he charged, was written by a proponent of assisted suicide during the Bush administration but he said he managed to block its use in 2007. Last month, he said, the Veterans Administration reinstated it.
 Responding on the same show, Tammy Duckworth, an assistant secretary of veteran affairs, insisted the booklet was indeed pulled off the shelves in 2007 and that the Obama administration has been revising it and telling medical practitioners not to use it. But she described the booklet as ''a tool'' and pointed out that Mr. Towey has a competing book on end-of-life discussions that veterans can purchase for $5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); FILIBUSTER (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); INSURANCE (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); TED KENNEDY (59%); ROBERT BYRD (59%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



654 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: As South Korea Mourns, North Pays Respects and Sends a Message

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
As South Korea held a state funeral on Sunday for former President Kim Dae-jung, North Korean delegates wrapped up their visit to the South. 
 In the first such high-level political meeting between the two Koreas in nearly two years, President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea met with officials from the North who came to Seoul to pay respects to Mr. Kim. Through the delegation, the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, said he wanted to improve ties with South Korea, officials said. 
 During a 30-minute meeting with Mr. Lee, the North Korean delegation relayed Mr. Kim's ''verbal message regarding making progress in South-North cooperation,'' Lee Dong-kwan, Mr. Lee's chief spokesman, told reporters. ''To this, President Lee explained our government's consistent and firm policy toward North Korea and asked the delegates to relay his position to Chairman Kim.'' 
 Relations between the North and the South have cooled -- and the legacy of Kim Dae-jung's ''Sunshine Policy'' of reconciliation with North Korea has crumbled -- since Mr. Lee took office in February 2008.
 Mr. Lee vowed not to provide aid to the North unless it made concrete progress in dismantling its nuclear weapons program. The North lashed out by cutting off dialogue with the Lee government. Relations deteriorated, and tensions grew, when North Korea conducted nuclear and missile tests earlier this year.
 For Mr. Lee, the delegates' visit represented a sharp change in mood; only a year ago, North Korea had called him a traitor.
 North Korea, however, has changed its tone in recent weeks. North Korean officials met with former President Bill Clinton in Pyongyang, the North's capital, on Aug. 4, and then released two American journalists and a South Korean worker, all of whom had been held for months on charges of committing hostile acts against the North.
 Kim Dae-jung's death on Tuesday provided the North Korean leader with an opportunity to reach out to Mr. Lee. The North quickly lifted restrictions on cross-border traffic with South Korea, and dispatched a delegation to Seoul on Friday, in a move that several South Korean analysts portrayed as an attempt by the North to get badly needed aid flowing again.
 The delegation was led by Kim Ki-nam, a secretary of the North's ruling Workers' Party, and Kim Yang-gon, the North's intelligence chief, who also handles relations with South Korea. 
 Unification Minister Hyun In-taek of South Korea, who met with Kim Yang-gon for 80 minutes on Saturday, said earlier that he hoped the North Korean delegates' meeting with President Lee would ''become a turning point in South-North Korean relations.''
 In a separate meeting on Saturday with South Korean politicians and scholars, Kim Yang-gon suggested more economic ties between the two Koreas, according to Yonhap, the South Korean news agency, quoting people who attended the meeting. 
 Some 30,000 politicians, foreign dignitaries and citizens attended the state funeral of former President Kim, held Sunday on a National Assembly lawn under a blazing sun and televised nationally.
 Citizens lined the streets as a motorcade carrying Mr. Kim's body traveled slowly through downtown Seoul on its way to the national cemetery. Mr. Kim's transition from a dissident and death-row inmate under past military rule to a president and then a Nobel laureate symbolized his own country's evolution, from a war-torn, staunchly anti-Communist dictatorship into a prosperous Asian democracy confident enough to embrace Communist North Korea.
 Many say that Mr. Kim's best moment came when he traveled to Pyongyang and met with Kim Jong-il in 2000 in the first summit meeting between the Koreas, leading to an unprecedented easing of tensions. South Koreans grew disappointed in recent years when North Korea conducted nuclear tests despite billions of dollars South Korea had provided in aid and trade under the Sunshine Policy. They voted against that policy when they elected Mr. Lee in December 2007.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The widow of Kim Dae-jung, Lee Hee-ho, with head bowed at his funeral Sunday in Seoul.(POOL PHOTO BY LEE YOUNG-HO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WRITERS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%); KIM JONG IL (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



655 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Filled With New Optimism, New Jersey Democrats Pounce After Christie's Misstep

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
Democratic BlackBerrys up and down the East Coast started buzzing at 12:18 a.m. on Tuesday with news out of New Jersey: The Republican candidate for governor, Christopher J. Christie, had lent $46,000 to a subordinate and failed to disclose it as required by law.
 For Democrats, who have watched, despairingly, as he galloped ahead of the incumbent, Gov. Jon S. Corzine, in the polls, it was a rare stumble by Mr. Christie, a former federal prosecutor running on a platform of ethics reform.
They were gleeful, and determined to strike. Into the wee hours and over the next few days, Mr. Corzine's aides strategized with White House aides and other Democratic operatives about how to make it a national story, suggested loaded questions for bloggers and reporters to ask Mr. Christie, enlisted the state party to file a complaint with elections officials, and sent young staff members out to dog Mr. Christie's events with signs spelling ''$46,000.''
 It is unclear what the misstep will mean for Mr. Christie, who quickly and profusely apologized. But the gaffe marked a pivotal moment, with both sides battling not only over the issue, but also about what this expensive, marquee governor's race will be fought over. 
 Republicans, who cheered in July when a federal investigation resulted in corruption charges against dozens of local officials, believing they underscored Mr. Christie's strengths, are now calling for him to focus on more conventional issues like property taxes, jobs and education.
 Democrats, seeing a chance to turn a referendum on an unpopular incumbent into a referendum on a challenger with some holes in his armor, want to talk about nothing else.
 ''There's a lot more optimism around Jon Corzine's candidacy now,'' said David Plouffe, President Obama's campaign manager, who cut his political teeth in New Jersey. ''When the real economic questions are put in front of voters, and now you've got questions about Christie's character and ethics, there's a pathway that's a little wider. It's still a tough fight and a little uphill, but there's a pathway.''
 New Jersey is enjoying outsize attention the year after a presidential election because it is one of only two statewide contests in the nation; the other is in Virginia. And New Jersey is still considered far more friendly to Democrats than Virginia is; the party holds a 650,000-vote registration edge, and a Republican has not won statewide in 12 years. 
 Still, what were once considered Mr. Corzine's political assets now look a lot like baggage. He is a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs precisely at the high-water mark of revulsion against Wall Street. He is a proponent of expensive health care and prekindergarten programs at a time of growing nervousness about soaring deficits and ambitious spending plans. 
 Those who have lived through past New Jersey campaigns believe the contest will ultimately be decided on pocketbook issues. Mr. Christie, who spent seven years as a United States attorney, has compiled a withering indictment of the governor: higher taxes, unemployment higher than in New York or Pennsylvania, a business climate rated among the nation's worst, an exodus of college students and corporations. Mr. Corzine said things would have gotten far worse had he not been in charge. But that is harder to prove, polls show that most voters do not buy it, and Republicans believe many people have run out of patience with the governor.
 ''There is such Democrat fatigue in this state,'' said Kevin O'Toole, the Republican chairman in Essex County, which includes Newark. ''Obama's right, it's time for a change.''
 Worse still, for Democrats, Mr. Corzine has struggled mightily to excite the party's base. Blacks and Hispanics have openly flirted with Mr. Christie over issues like school vouchers. Environmental advocates have already deserted Mr. Corzine. The Corzine campaign is aggressively lobbying gay men and lesbians to stick with the governor.
 Mr. Corzine's aides had been saying for months that they only needed to fight Mr. Christie to a draw on the subject of corruption, because they believe if the campaign is about the issues, they will win, given the Democrats' registration advantage. But despite the campaign's costly barrage of television commercials accusing Mr. Christie of cronyism, his disapproval rating is still only about half the governor's.
 That is why they began to grow excited this month, with the news that Karl Rove had spoken with Mr. Christie, as early as 2006 or 2007, about Mr. Christie's interest in the New Jersey governor's office. The Hatch Act bars federal prosecutors from even testing the waters for a candidacy, and by Saturday, Mr. Corzine, speaking to liberal bloggers in Pittsburgh, was calling Mr. Christie a ''lawbreaker.''
 Some Democrats felt it was a stretch. But then, last Tuesday, another break: Mr. Christie came forward to acknowledge he had given a top aide in the prosecutor's office a second mortgage to help her out of a financial jam, but failed to report it on his ethics filings and tax returns. 
 Full of outrage when announcing indictments, Mr. Christie was subdued but frank in owning and apologizing for his mistake. But he had to contend with questions about why his lapse -- he had failed to report $420 in interest income on his taxes -- would not have been worth prosecuting.
 From Washington to Trenton to the governor's adopted hometown, Hoboken, Mr. Corzine's allies grabbed hold of the story as if it were a defibrillator.
 Aides to Senator Robert Menendez put calls in to reporters pressing the attack. Representative Frank Pallone Jr. accused the United States attorney's office -- where the woman who received the loan from Mr. Christie is now second in command -- of playing politics. The Corzine campaign filed a lawsuit seeking records of Mr. Christie's communications with his old office.
 Mr. Christie's allies watched, agape. Mr. Corzine had once lent more than 10 times as much money to a companion who headed a state workers' union he later negotiated with. ''Corzine could not be more hypocritical than he's being right now,'' said Jennifer Beck, a Republican state senator from Monmouth County.
 While some Republicans expressed concern about what they called the sloppiness of Mr. Christie's mistake, his campaign was confident the matter would blow over. ''This is a distraction for this week,'' said Russ Schriefer, his media consultant.
 ''It's just evidence of how weak their case is, because it's a nonstory,'' said Jay Webber, Mr. Christie's appointee as state Republican chairman. ''All the Democrats have done is played a game of gotcha, and Chris said, 'Oh, you pointed out a mistake, and I've corrected it and moved on.' That's what leaders do.''
 Mr. Corzine's aides are hoping otherwise. ''The problem for Christie is the New Jersey electorate knows a hypocrite when they see one,'' said Maggie Moran, the Corzine campaign manager. ''What bona fides does he have to run on now?''
 On Friday morning, a select group of county Democratic chairmen gathered in Mr. Corzine's Hoboken high-rise apartment for breakfast. A week ago, Ms. Moran said, she expected to have to put out fires of discontent. Instead, it was all smiles.
 ''There's been a sea change,'' said Rich McClellan, the Mercer County chairman, a few hours after the gathering, adding, ''There's a sense that we're just looking at the start of the unraveling of the Christie mystique.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher J. Christie, the Republican candidate for New Jersey governor, leaving a speaking engagement last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (71%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



656 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Volkswagen of America, Herndon, Va., part of the German automaker Volkswagen, placed in review the creative account for the Volkswagen brand after four years of working with Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami and Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners. The agency declined an invitation to take part in the review for the assignment, with spending estimated at more than $200 million.
 Anheuser-Busch InBev named two Publicis Groupe agencies -- Publicis New York and Publicis Modem East -- to handle the worldwide creative assignment for Beck's beer. Those duties had been handled by Lowe Worldwide, London, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Last month, Publicis New York resigned the creative account for a Crown Imports beer brand, Corona Light -- after handling it for only a month -- and cited a conflict that the agency did not identify. The global spending for Beck's was not disclosed; the budget in the United States last year was estimated at $3.5 million. 
 Mattress Firm, Houston, which has more than 525 stores in 21 states, selected FKM, Houston, as its agency of record, handling creative and broadcast media duties. Spending last year was estimated at $20 million. The assignment had been handled by Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group. 
 HTC Corporation, a Taiwan company that makes mobile phones, named Deutsch L.A. to handle a new assignment, as the creative and media agency for its North American operations, based in Bellevue, Wash. HTC plans to introduce phones under its own brand after making cellphones like the G1 smartphone with the Google brand sold by T-Mobile. Deutsch L.A. is the Marina del Rey, Calif., office of Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. AdAge.com estimated that HTC planned to spend as much as $50 million on a campaign to enter the cellphone market with its own brand.
 The New York State Department of Health chose Ground Zero, Los Angeles, as the creative and media agency for its tobacco control program with a contract estimated at $35 million a year in spending for five years. The agency, which until recently created antismoking campaigns for the California Department of Public Health, will open an office in Albany to serve the account. 
 People
 Lori Senecal joined Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as president, chief executive and partner. She succeeds Aaron Reitkopf, who is leaving, said the agency, which is being renamed Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners. Ms. Senecal had been president at the flagship New York office of McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. C. Thomas Gruhler, executive vice president and worldwide account director at McCann Erickson New York, will succeed Ms. Senecal as president. 
 Michael McLaren, chief executive at the EXP unit of the McCann Worldgroup, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was named regional director for Asia-Pacific and president and chief executive of Japanese operations, based in Tokyo. The appointment is effective on Nov. 15. Mr. McLaren will succeed Kevin Ramsey, who is leaving, the agency said, and would announce his plans ''at a later date.'' Matt Ross, president for the San Francisco operations of the McCann Worldgroup, will succeed Mr. McLaren at EXP, also on Nov. 15.
 Wenda Harris Millard, president at Media Link, New York, will serve temporarily as the top sales executive at MySpace, part of the News Corporation, as she assumes the duties of Jeff Berman, who is leaving, MySpace said. Media Link, which is consulting for MySpace, will help search for a permanent successor to Mr. Berman.
 Miscellany
 GroupM, part of WPP, is consolidating the print planning and buying operations of four media agencies in the United States: Maxus, MediaCom, Mediaedge:cia and Mindshare. The operations will be combined into a unit named GroupM Print, to be headed by two team leaders: George Janson, who had led print communications for Mediaedge:cia, and Scott Kruse, who had been director for print investments at MediaCom.
 Danoo, San Francisco, which specializes in digital media outside the home, was renamed the Reach Media Group. The change came after the expansion of Danoo through the acquisition of IdeaCast. Reach Media will be composed of three networks: business traveler; health and fitness; and urban mobile. Investors in Reach Media are National CineMedia, which had owned all the senior secured debt of IdeaCast, and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, an investor in Danoo.
 Advertising revenue for radio fell 22 percent in the second quarter from the same period a year ago, according to a report from the Radio Advertising Bureau, New York. For the first half, ad revenue was down 23 percent from the first half of 2008, the bureau reported. The sole gains came in digital ad revenue, which rose 9 percent for the second quarter and 10 percent for the first half.
 Correction: The name of an agency that is merging with Reynardus & Moya, New York, was misspelled in a Miscellany item last week. It is Mgscomm, not Msgcomm; the merged agency will operate under the Mgscomm name.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (84%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); SMARTPHONES (70%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); MATTRESSES (52%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (97%); VOLKSWAGEN AG (93%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); HTC CORP (83%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (72%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (72%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (62%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); PUBLICIS MODEM INC (57%); PUBLICIS USA (57%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (57%); ZIMMERMAN ADVERTISING LLC (55%); GOOGLE INC (54%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (54%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (51%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (97%); VOW3 (FRA) (93%); VKW (LSE) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); 2498 (TAIEX) (83%); BUD (NYSE) (72%); ABI (BRU) (72%); PUB (PAR) (72%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (72%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%); ALBANY, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



657 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats Consider Tactic to Push Through Government Health Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats said Sunday that they were fleshing out plans to pass health legislation, particularly the option of a new government-run insurance program, with a simple majority, instead of the 60 votes that would ordinarily be needed to overcome a filibuster.
 After consulting experts in Senate rules and procedure, the Democrats said they were increasingly confident that they could legislate creation of a public plan in a way that would withstand challenges expected from Republicans. 
 Appearing Sunday on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate, said a public insurance plan was ''essential to getting the costs down, which is our No. 1 problem.''
 Proponents of a public plan say it would drive down costs because it would not have a profit motive and would have lower overhead costs and lower executive salaries than private insurance companies.
 In Colorado on Aug. 15, President Obama said people had become ''fixated'' on the public plan option, which he described as ''just one sliver'' of efforts to overhaul the health care system.
 Mr. Schumer said it was ''looking less and less likely'' that Republicans would support Democratic proposals to subsidize coverage for tens of millions of the uninsured. And Senate Democratic leaders said they had little hope that the chairman of the Finance Committee, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, would be able to forge a bipartisan compromise.
 In the last week, Democrats have begun to talk openly of using a procedure known as budget reconciliation to pass a health bill in the Senate with a simple majority, assuming no Republican support. To do that, under Senate rules, they would probably need to show that the public plan changed federal spending or revenues and that the effects were not ''merely incidental'' to the changes in health policy.
 Democrats believe they could clear this hurdle by demonstrating that the public plan would save money or cost money.
 ''If a public plan is shown to have a cost to the government that affects outlays or revenues, it could be included in a health care bill using reconciliation procedures,'' said Martin P. Paone, a former Senate aide who has been consulted by Senate Democrats.
 Republicans object to both the idea of a new government plan and the use of expedited procedures to push it through the Senate on a simple majority vote.
 Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said that using the budget reconciliation procedure to pass a health bill would be ''an abuse of the process,'' which was meant to focus on spending and tax policy. Moreover, Mr. Hatch said, ''every Republican says that they will not be for a public option.''
 Mr. Hatch said a new public insurance program could ''bankrupt the country.'' He said it made no sense to ''throw out a system that works for 85 percent'' of the population so Congress could take care of the 15 percent who were uninsured.
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said Mr. Obama should take a more gradual approach. ''We morally, every one of us, would like to cover every American with health insurance,'' Mr. Lieberman said on ''State of the Union'' on CNN. But, he noted, ''that's where you spend most of the $1 trillion'' in expected costs over 10 years.
 ''We've got to think about putting a lot of that off until the economy's out of recession,'' he added. ''There's no reason we have to do it all now, but we do have to get started. And I think the place to start is cost, health delivery reform and insurance market reforms.''
 The administration continued on Sunday to wrestle with questions about planning for medical care at the end of life.
 Senator Arlen Specter, Democrat of Pennsylvania, called for hearings to investigate a guide used by the government to counsel veterans with critical or terminal illnesses.
 On ''Fox News Sunday,'' H. James Towey, the director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives under President George W. Bush, said the guide seemed to encourage people to ''hurry up and die.'' 
 The booklet, ''Your Life, Your Choices,'' asks people to consider whether life would be worth living if, for example, they were in severe pain, relied on a feeding tube or a breathing machine, lived in a nursing home or imposed ''a severe financial burden'' on family members.
 In addition, the booklet asks, ''Have you ever heard anyone say, 'If I'm a vegetable, pull the plug'?'' It then explains that people have different ideas of what it means to be a vegetable or to ''pull the plug.''
 In a bulletin last month, the Department of Veterans Affairs recommended the booklet as a tool to help veterans with ''advance care planning.''
 Tammy Duckworth, an assistant secretary of veterans affairs, said it was being revised.
 But Mr. Towey said, ''The document is so fundamentally flawed that the V.A. ought to throw it out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Charles E. Schumer, left, a Democrat, and Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Republican, offered opposing views about health care legislation on ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday morning.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM B. PLOWMAN/NBC NEWSWIRE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (87%); POLITICS (79%); FILIBUSTER (79%); INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); RANKINGS (77%); HEALTH CARE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); WAGES & SALARIES (53%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); ORRIN HATCH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



658 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; GOAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Nike Selling League; M.L.S. Isn't Buying

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
Nike is ready to depart the soccer business. Not the seemingly recession-proof and lucrative global market for jerseys, shoes and other gear. Instead, Nike has put up for sale its 100 percent ownership of United Soccer Leagues.
 U.S.L., the conglomeration of six leagues (with teams in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico), was founded in 1986 and was owned by Umbro, the British sporting goods company, until Nike bought Umbro in 2007 for $582 million. In addition to inheriting Umbro's role as the uniform supplier for national teams like England and Sweden, and a handful of clubs in the English Premier League, Nike also became the sole owner of U.S.L.
 But Nike has decided that being the owner of the league does not fit with its core business. 
 It just needs to find a buyer. U.S.L. has had a love-hate relationship with Major League Soccer, dating to the formation of M.L.S. in 1996. And although U.S.L. 1 (the league's first division) was once seen as a perfect fit for M.L.S., whether as a reserve league or as part of a promotion/relegation setup like the ones used in leagues around the world, M.L.S. officials said the league was no longer interested.
 ''We recently evaluated the opportunity to purchase the U.S.L., but elected to not submit a bid for the league,'' Dan Courtemanche, a senior vice president for marketing and communications at M.L.S., said in an e-mail message.
 The decision by M.L.S. not to bid for U.S.L. was the result of several factors, including: M.L.S. has a long-term deal with Adidas; acquiring the league could raise potential antitrust issues; any agreement to absorb U.S.L. 1 may rekindle FIFA's desire for promotion/relegation in M.L.S.; and M.L.S. has already poached U.S.L. teams from attractive markets in Toronto, Vancouver, Portland and Seattle.
 So who could be interested? The U.S.L. team in Miami is owned by Traffic, the Brazil-based soccer behemoth that owns clubs and the rights to players throughout the Western Hemisphere. Traffic is believed to be working with the owners of several other U.S.L. 1 teams to try to buy the league from Nike. Those owners have long been disappointed at the league's inability to promote U.S.L.: for example, Miami last year had the Brazilian veteran Romario on its roster, but garnered little publicity.
 Several league officials said that negotiations had reached a delicate stage, but that a sale could be completed in several weeks.
 Major League Soccer
 Richie Williams joined an exclusive fraternity on Sunday -- Red Bulls/MetroStars coaches with winning records. 
 When Juan Carlos Osorio resigned late last week, Williams enlisted for his second spell as the club's interim coach (he went 3-3-2 after replacing Mo Johnston in 2006). On Sunday, Williams presided over the first victory for the Red Bulls (3-16-4) since May.
 ''Obviously, it's a very good feeling to finally get a win,'' Williams said after the game. ''We've had a very difficult season and we are all at fault for that.''
 Williams will coach the Red Bulls in their final seven games, and the club's managing director, Erik Stover, said Williams would be among the candidates considered for the job. 
 In its 14 seasons, the club has had 11 coaches. Among the list is one World Cup winner (Carlos Alberto Parreira), one veteran of the North American Soccer League (Eddie Firmani) and four other current or former national team coaches (Carlos Queiroz, Bora Milutinovic, Bob Bradley and Bruce Arena). Of the 11 coaches, only Williams, Bradley, Johnston and Octavio Zambrano posted winning records. 
 Notes
 The United States women's national team will play a friendly against Germany in Augsburg on Oct. 29. The match will be played at the new 31,000-seat Impuls Arena, which is one of the nine stadiums that will be used when Germany hosts the 2011 Women's World Cup.
 Houston of M.L.S. has signed its first designated player, striker Luis Angel Landin, on loan from the Mexican club Cruz Azul. The loan is scheduled to run through the end of the 2010 season, and the deal provides the Dynamo with an option to purchase Landin's rights. At 24, Landin is by far the youngest of the designated players in M.L.S. He has played five times for Mexico's national team after coming up through Pachuca's youth system.
 ESPN, which won the rights to broadcast 46 Premier League games in England when Setanta's British operation collapsed, has hired Kevin Keegan, the former manager of England and Newcastle, and Guus Hiddink, the former manager at Chelsea and the current coach of Russia's national team, as analysts.
 Fox Sports International has started a Web site, ChampionsOnFox.com, dedicated to the UEFA Champions League. The site provides preview videos, schedules, live scores and statistics, and links to live match streaming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

COMPANY: NIKE INC (95%); UMBRO PLC (92%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (95%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (95%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (95%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (95%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315280 OTHER CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (77%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (72%) OREGON, USA (78%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



659 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Israel Raises a Lending Rate

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Bank of Israel raised the benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point, the first central bank to lift rates since signs of an easing in the global recession started in the second quarter. 
 The bank's governor, Stanley Fischer, increased the lending rate to 0.75 percent, the central bank said Monday in a statement.
 The decision ''strikes a balance between the need to moderate inflation and the need to continue to support the recent recovery in economic activity,'' the bank said. 
 Mr. Fischer has been backing away from economic stimulus measures since July 27, after the inflation rate fell. 
 The Israeli, French, German and Japanese economies all returned to growth in the second quarter, prompting Mr. Fischer to say on Friday at a meeting of bank governors in Jackson Hole, Wyo., that ''the first signs of global growth have appeared.''
 Israel posted inflation rates of 3.5 percent in July and 3.6 percent in June, above the desired 1 percent to 3 percent target range.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ISRAEL (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



660 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: It Seemingly Can't Get Worse, But the Mets Find a Way

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Mets fans thought they had hit humiliating rock bottom Sunday when the Philadelphia Phillies turned a game-ending triple play to secure a 9-7 win.
 It has gotten worse. 
 On Monday, near the end of a news conference after a 6-2 loss to the Phillies, the Mets announced that Johan Santana, the only consistent strong point in a dismal season, would miss his start Tuesday because of pain in his left elbow. What was especially troubling is that the rugged Santana asked out of the start. Manager Jerry Manuel said he was ''terribly concerned.''
 Last September, Santana heroically demanded the ball on short rest for the next-to-last day of the season and turned in a performance that kept the Mets' slender playoff hopes alive. Santana pitched a shutout, but the Mets were bounced from the postseason for the second consecutive year. 
 The announcement of Santana's injury Monday trumped the news earlier in the day that outfielder Jeff Francoeur had torn ligaments in his left thumb while making a diving catch of a ball hit by Eric Bruntlett in the ninth inning Sunday.
 Few Mets seemed surprised by the news about Santana. In some ways, it was merely confirmation that their season was dead. 
 ''I think we've all known for two months now that he wasn't feeling that great,'' Francoeur said. ''He doesn't go up there and give up 10 hits, usually he doesn't go out there and he can't get it over 90 miles per hour. The Santana we all know, that I've faced so many times, is out there pumping 93, 94.''
 The Mets' injuries have reached the point at which fans can reasonably wonder if the franchise has been cursed. Was it the clumsy firing of Willie Randolph last season? Was it building an opulent stadium in the midst of an economic meltdown? Has it been a poor medical staff and training regimen? 
 Or has it been simply bad luck? 
 Francoeur. Jose Reyes. Carlos Beltran. Carlos Delgado. David Wright. And now Santana. 
 Francoeur, who joined the Mets from Atlanta last month, put his twist on the spate of injuries.
 ''That's part of the game,'' he said. ''Sometimes, you just have a bad run, and this has been one.
 ''My only guess is that next year is going to be unbelievably good. That's the way I look at it. The thing that is going to be nice is from a lot of guys who have been hurt, you've got to imagine that they'll come to spring training next year chomping at the bit to get out on the field and get playing. If the whole team comes down with that mentality, it can be a special year next year. You've got to believe that something good's going to come out of this.''
 News of Santana's injury spread quickly to the Phillies' clubhouse. Pedro Martinez, who spent four seasons with the Mets, said he thought something was wrong last season. Jimmy Rollins, the Phillies' fiery shortstop, seemed caught off guard. ''Johan? Really. That's surprising,'' he said.
 Rollins has found particular joy in torturing the Mets. Two seasons ago, he brazenly predicted that his Phillies -- not the Mets, who nearly reached the 2006 World Series -- were ''the team to beat.''
 ''The Mets had a chance to win the World Series last year,'' he said before the 2007 season. ''Last year is over. I think we are the team to beat in the N.L. East, finally.'' Sure enough, the injury-ravaged Phillies overcame a seven-game deficit and won the National League East. 
 Last year, Rollins's Phillies made up three and a half games on the Mets in the season's final 17 days. Even after the Phillies won the World Series, Rollins couldn't resist zinging the Mets. 
 ''They brought in that great pitcher, Johan Santana, but they forgot that it takes more than one player to bring home a championship,'' he said.
 On Monday, Rollins said he didn't really want to talk about the Mets anymore -- ''I'm concerned with what goes on in this clubhouse'' -- but he couldn't resist. 
 Rollins was in the Phillies' lineup Sunday when Bruntlett, the second baseman, turned the game-ending triple play. He said his first thought when he saw the play unfolding was: ''That was so stupid.'' His second thought was: ''Thank you.''
 Another gift from the Mets.
 But the news of Santana's injury seemed to soften Rollins's attitude -- a bit. The 2007 and 2008 seasons were demoralizing for the Mets, but this season has been devastating and could take the sting out of an intense rivalry. 
 ''I want them to be good,'' Rollins said. ''You love to play good teams. Probably because of where we've both been the last couple years, the rivalry is still there, smoldering just underneath. Even if we're both bad, we want to at least be able to say we're better than them. But you want them to be good.''
 And so with a month left to play, the Mets' nightmare continues. 
 One caution to Mets fans: don't ask what else can go wrong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



661 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: 'Peak Oil' Is a Waste of Energy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LYNCH. 
Michael Lynch, the former director for Asian energy and security at the Center for International Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is an energy consultant.

DATELINE: Amherst, Mass. 

 BODY:
 REMEMBER ''peak oil''? It's the theory that geological scarcity will at some point make it impossible for global petroleum production to avoid falling, heralding the end of the oil age and, potentially, economic catastrophe. Well, just when we thought that the collapse in oil prices since last summer had put an end to such talk, along comes Fatih Birol, the top economist at the International Energy Agency, to insist that we'll reach the peak moment in 10 years, a decade sooner than most previous predictions (although a few ardent pessimists believe the moment of no return has already come and gone). 
 Like many Malthusian beliefs, peak oil theory has been promoted by a motivated group of scientists and laymen who base their conclusions on poor analyses of data and misinterpretations of technical material. But because the news media and prominent figures like James Schlesinger, a former secretary of energy, and the oilman T. Boone Pickens have taken peak oil seriously, the public is understandably alarmed. 
 A careful examination of the facts shows that most arguments about peak oil are based on anecdotal information, vague references and ignorance of how the oil industry goes about finding fields and extracting petroleum. And this has been demonstrated over and over again: the founder of the Association for the Study of Peak Oil first claimed in 1989 that the peak had already been reached, and Mr. Schlesinger argued a decade earlier that production was unlikely to ever go much higher. 
 Mr. Birol isn't the only one still worrying. One leading proponent of peak oil, the writer Paul Roberts, recently expressed shock to discover that the liquid coming out of the Ghawar Field in Saudi Arabia, the world's largest known deposit, is around 35 percent water and rising. But this is hardly a concern -- the buildup is caused by the Saudis pumping seawater into the field to keep pressure up and make extraction easier. The global average for water in oil field yields is estimated to be as high as 75 percent.
 Another critic, a prominent consultant and investor named Matthew Simmons, has raised concerns over oil engineers using ''fuzzy logic'' to estimate reservoir holdings. But fuzzy logic is a programming method that has been used since I was in graduate school in situations where the factors are hazy and variable -- everything from physical science to international relations -- and its track record in oil geology has been quite good. 
 But those are just the latest arguments -- for the most part the peak-oil crowd rests its case on three major claims: that the world is discovering only one barrel for every three or four produced; that political instability in oil-producing countries puts us at an unprecedented risk of having the spigots turned off; and that we have already used half of the two trillion barrels of oil that the earth contained. 
 Let's take the rate-of-discovery argument first: it is a statement that reflects ignorance of industry terminology. When a new field is found, it is given a size estimate that indicates how much is thought to be recoverable at that point in time. But as years pass, the estimate is almost always revised upward, either because more pockets of oil are found in the field or because new technology makes it possible to extract oil that was previously unreachable. Yet because petroleum geologists don't report that additional recoverable oil as ''newly discovered,'' the peak oil advocates tend to ignore it. In truth, the combination of new discoveries and revisions to size estimates of older fields has been keeping pace with production for many years.
 A related argument -- that the ''easy oil'' is gone and that extraction can only become more difficult and cost-ineffective -- should be recognized as vague and irrelevant. Drillers in Persia a century ago certainly didn't consider their work easy, and the mechanized, computerized industry of today is a far sight from 19th-century mule-drawn rigs. Hundreds of fields that produce ''easy oil'' today were once thought technologically unreachable. 
 The latest acorn in the discovery debate is a recent increase in the overall estimated rate at which production is declining in large oil fields. This is assumed to be the result of the ''superstraw'' technologies that have become dominant over the past decade, which can drain fields faster than ever. True, because quicker extraction causes the fluid pressure in the field to drop rapidly, the wells become less and less productive over time. But this declining return on individual wells doesn't necessarily mean that whole fields are being cleaned out. As the Saudis have proved in recent years at Ghawar, additional investment -- to find new deposits and drill new wells -- can keep a field's overall production from falling.
 When their shaky claims on geology are exposed, the peak-oil advocates tend to argue that today's geopolitical instability needs to be taken into consideration. But political risk is hardly new: a leading Communist labor organizer in the Baku oil industry in the early 1900s would later be known to the world as Josef Stalin. 
 When the large supply disruptions of 1973 and 1979 led to skyrocketing prices, nearly all oil experts said the underlying cause was resource scarcity and that prices would go ever higher in the future. The oil companies diversified their investments -- Mobil even started buying up department stores! -- and President Jimmy Carter pushed for the development of synthetic fuels like shale oil, arguing that markets were too myopic to realize the imminent need for substitutes. All sorts of policy wonks, energy consultants and Nobel-prize-winning economists jumped on the bandwagon to explain that prices would only go up -- even though they had never done so historically. Prices instead proceeded to slide for two decades, rather as the tide ignored King Canute.
 Just as, in the 1970s, it was the Arab oil embargo and the Iranian Revolution, today it is the invasion of Iraq and instability in Venezuela and Nigeria. But the solution, as ever, is for the industry to shift investment into new regions, and that's what it is doing. Yet peak-oil advocates take advantage of the inevitable delay in bringing this new production on line to claim that global production is on an irreversible decline. 
 In the end, perhaps the most misleading claim of the peak-oil advocates is that the earth was endowed with only 2 trillion barrels of ''recoverable'' oil. Actually, the consensus among geologists is that there are some 10 trillion barrels out there. A century ago, only 10 percent of it was considered recoverable, but improvements in technology should allow us to recover some 35 percent -- another 2.5 trillion barrels -- in an economically viable way. And this doesn't even include such potential sources as tar sands, which in time we may be able to efficiently tap. 
 Oil remains abundant, and the price will likely come down closer to the historical level of $30 a barrel as new supplies come forward in the deep waters off West Africa and Latin America, in East Africa, and perhaps in the Bakken oil shale fields of Montana and North Dakota. But that may not keep the Chicken Littles from convincing policymakers in Washington and elsewhere that oil, being finite, must increase in price. (That's the logic that led the Carter administration to createthe Synthetic Fuels Corporation, a $3 billion boondoggle that never produced a gallon of useable fuel.)
 This is not to say that we shouldn't keep looking for other cost-effective, low-pollution energy sources -- why not broaden our options? But we can't let the false threat of disappearing oil lead the government to throw money away on harebrained renewable energy schemes or impose unnecessary and expensive conservation measures on a public already struggling through tough economic times. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TED MCGRATH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



662 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: The Ultimate Burden

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
If you want to get a little bit of a sense of what the wars are like in Afghanistan and Iraq -- a small, distant sense of the on-the-ground horror -- pick up a book of color photos called, ''2nd Tour, Hope I Don't Die.'' It's chilling.
 Most Americans have conveniently put these two absurd, obscene conflicts out of their minds. There's an economy to worry about and snappy little messages to tweet. Nobody wants to think about young people getting their faces or their limbs blown off. Or the parents, loaded with antidepressants, giving their children and spouses a final hug before heading off in a haze of anxiety to their third or fourth tour in the war zones. 
 The book is the work of the photographer Peter van Agtmael, who has spent a great deal of time following American combat troops in both countries. One of the photos in the book shows an Army captain standing exhausted and seemingly forlorn on the blood-slicked floor of a combat support hospital in Baghdad. Mr. van Agtmael was sensitive to the heavy psychological load borne by the medical personnel, writing in the caption:
 ''Their humor was dark and their expressions often flat and distant when they treated patients. The worst casualties were given nicknames. One soldier melted by the fire caused by an I.E.D. blast was called 'goo man.' But certain casualties would hit home, especially injured children. Some staff resorted to painkillers and other drugs.''
 The war in Afghanistan made sense once but it doesn't any longer. The war in Iraq never did. And yet, with most of the country tuned out entirely, we're still suiting up the soldiers and the Marines, putting them on planes and sending them off with a high stakes (life or death) roll of the dice.
 ''2nd Tour, Hope I Don't Die.''
 Or maybe it's the third tour, or fourth, or fifth. The book's title came from graffiti scrawled on a wall at an Air Force base in Kuwait that was one of the transit points for troops heading to Iraq. America's young fighting men and women have to make these multiple tours because the overwhelming majority of the American people want no part of the nation's wars. They don't want to serve, they don't want to make any sacrifices here on the home front -- they don't even want to pay the taxes that would be needed to raise the money to pay for the wars. We just add the trillions to deficits that stretch as far as the eye can see.
 To the extent that we think about the wars at all, it's just long enough to point our fingers at the volunteers and say: ''Oh yeah, great. You go. And if you come back maimed or dead we'll salute you as a hero.''
 And what are we sending them off to? There's a photo of Nick Sprovtsoff, a sergeant from Flint, Mich., lying awake in his bunk at a patrol outpost in Afghanistan. He looks like a tough guy in the picture, but he also looks worried. The caption says:
 ''On his third tour, he was there to advise a local platoon of the Afghan army. The Afghan soldiers rarely wanted to patrol, preferring to watch DVDs and smoke hash. Their favorite movie was 'Titanic.' ''
 (A Page 1 headline in Sunday's New York Times read, ''Marines Fight With Little Aid From Afghans.'')
 A clear idea of the pathetic unwillingness of the American people to share in the sacrifices of these wars can be gleaned from a comment that President Obama made in his address last week to the Veterans of Foreign Wars. ''We are a country of more than 300 million Americans,'' he said. ''Less than 1 percent wears the uniform.''
 The president was not chiding those who are not serving, he was only intending to praise those who are. But the idea that so few are willing to serve at a time when the nation is fighting two long wars is a profound indictment on the society. 
 If we had a draft -- or merely the threat of a draft -- we would not be in Iraq or Afghanistan. But we don't have a draft so it's safe for most of the nation to be mindless about waging war. Other people's children are going to the slaughter. 
 Instead of winding down our involvement in Afghanistan, we're ratcheting it up. President Obama told the V.F.W. that fighting the war there is absolutely essential. ''This is fundamental to the defense of our people,'' he said.
 Well, if this war, now approaching its ninth year, is so fundamental, we should all be pitching in. We shouldn't be leaving the entire monumental burden to a tiny portion of the population, sending them into combat again, and again, and again, and again ... 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (69%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



663 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Sweet-Talking Top Fliers Again

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
After years of shrinking benefits and increasing fees, frequent-flier programs are courting their most loyal customers again.
 In recent weeks, American Airlines introduced new awards for one-way flights; United dropped its $75 to $100 fees for booking an award within three weeks of travel; and Delta Air Lines made it easier for elite frequent fliers to retain their V.I.P. status.
 Carriers have also been dangling mileage offers, including double-mile promotions, and have even resurrected bonuses for booking online. 
 Those who follow the programs describe the changes as a slight shift in a more consumer-friendly direction, giving customers more ways to earn and redeem miles.
 ''What we're seeing is a bit of a resurgence on the airlines' part in focusing on their frequent-flier programs,'' said Tim Winship, who tracks loyalty programs for SmarterTravel.com. But he added that the issue members care about most -- being able to use their miles for free tickets -- remains a challenge, especially with planes flying nearly full.
 ''I think award availability remains the elephant in the room,'' he said. ''The travel slump has not resulted in any increase in award availability, and in fact, if anything my sense is that people are having a more difficult time now.''
 That assessment, while hotly debated on travel Web sites, is difficult to confirm.
 Randy Petersen, founder of the frequent-flier hubs InsideFlyer.com and FlyerTalk.com, said 2008 was a record year for award redemption, which he attributed to travelers using miles for more mundane trips, like visits to relatives in less exotic locales. 
 ''In a good economy, everyone wants to use their miles to go to Hawaii, London or San Francisco,'' he said. ''But when the recession hit, award redemption really started to spread out because people were using their miles not as much for vacation as necessary travel.''
 Another factor spurring award redemption, Mr. Petersen said, has been the shift to ''dynamic pricing.'' If a seat that requires 25,000 miles is available for the outbound leg of a trip, but there is only a 50,000-mile seat on the return, many airlines now offer the itinerary for an amount in between -- say, 37,500 miles -- rather than charging the higher price for the entire trip.
 In a similar vein, the new one-way award from American Airlines lets members book a flight after as little as 12,500 miles, a good option for students returning to college or snowbirds heading south for the winter. 
 There have also been changes in financial regulations that require airlines to account for unused frequent-flier miles as a liability, which has motivated carriers to make awards easier to redeem.
 ''There really is an incentive now for the airlines to get all of their miles redeemed because it's expensive for them to carry them as a liability,'' Mr. Petersen said.
 Even so, he acknowledged that as travelers prioritize low-priced tickets over flying with a preferred airline, carriers need to work harder to earn loyalty, especially among their elite fliers.
 Delta Airlines, for example, recently announced new benefits for its elite SkyMiles members, which take effect in 2010.
 Among the more significant changes, Delta added a ''diamond'' tier to its existing levels of Medallion membership (silver, gold and platinum) -- all referred to as having elite status, which comes with benefits like free upgrades and fee waivers.
 Paul R. Skrbec, a Delta spokesman, said adding a fourth tier encouraged Medallion members to stay with Delta, rather than switch to another carrier after obtaining platinum status. The higher the tier, the better the benefits. For example, a diamond member will get a 125 percent mileage bonus versus a 100 percent bonus for platinum elites.
 Seth Miller, a freelance technology consultant in Manhattan, is one of the elite frequent fliers airlines have been courting, having maintained top-tier platinum status in Continental's OnePass program for 10 years.
 ''The legacy airlines especially are doing as much as they can to generate loyalty, and these days that means crazy bonuses -- double miles for this, triple miles for that, miles are being given out like candy on Halloween,'' Mr. Miller said.
 ''It's great now,'' he added, but he worries that the airlines' largess could have a downside. ''The question is, what happens when everyone tries to take advantage of all these benefits that are being handed out now? I've got elite status, but am I going to be able to get upgrades or will everybody else have status, too?''
 Another question is whether nonelite frequent fliers have dropped off the radar as airlines focus on their biggest spenders -- a message that average consumers may be responding to by shifting their loyalty to other rewards programs, like those offered on credit cards.
 A research company that tracks loyalty programs found that membership in credit card reward programs surpassed membership in frequent-flier programs for the first time in 2009.
 According to Colloquy, the company that conducted the research, the average household in the United States is signed up for 14 loyalty programs, ranging from grocery stores and gas stations to airlines and hotels, but actively participates in only six. 
 The recession has diminished participation in multiple travel programs, said Kelly Hlavinka, a partner at Colloquy. She said this could bring about a return to the original premise of loyalty rewards: to cement a relationship with just one airline or hotel.
 ''Savvy travelers may be saying, 'I may not be able to spread my business out to two or three airlines, but I can consolidate my travel with one company,' '' Ms. Hlavinka said. ''The real opportunity for airlines is to try to keep that business with their airline.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seth Miller has maintained top-tier platinum status with Continental's OnePass program for a decade.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); LOYALTY MARKETING (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (84%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



664 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Count Them Among the Uninsured

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Uninsured'' (editorial, Aug. 23):
 I was disappointed that your itemization of who the uninsured are did not mention the large number of Americans whom the private, for-profit insurance industry deems ''uninsurable.''
 If you have a pre-existing condition, you often can't get private insurance for that condition at an affordable price, or sometimes at any price. This is one of the gravest failures of our free-market system: sick people are deliberately and legally excluded from the insurance system. The only way they can get coverage is through an employer group policy or by being poor enough to qualify for public programs.
 This pool of people continues to grow as people are laid off, as jobs with group health become more scarce generally and as the population grows older and gets ''uninsurable'' chronic diseases. 
 David Tallman Atlanta, Aug. 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial pondered who, exactly, are the uninsured. Where I live in rural Northern California, it seems that at least half of the working people I know have no insurance. 
 These are average folks of all ages and backgrounds who work for local small businesses. Their employers can't afford to insure them, and they can't afford to buy insurance on the open market.
 These uninsured small-business employees include the very people who work at my doctor's office. My internist isn't able to offer reasonably priced insurance to his own staff. When the nurses who are taking my blood pressure and the nice front-office people who are booking my medical appointments can't themselves have affordable access to medical care, something is disastrously wrong with the system. 
 Ellen Golla Bayside, Calif., Aug. 24, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Inequalities in access to health care do not have a negative effect only on the health and well-being of the uninsured. There is a serious body of evidence to suggest that middle-income groups in less equal societies have worse health than comparable population groups in more equal societies.
 These findings, reported by Norman Daniels, Bruce Kennedy and Ichiro Kawachi in their essay ''Justice Is Good for Our Health,'' deserve scrutiny.
 If they can be substantiated, then it is in the interests of the already insured middle classes to promote universal coverage and to work toward reducing other social inequalities. Simply put, making sure that everyone has equal access to high-quality medical care could make us all healthier.
 Darian Meacham Brussels, Aug. 23, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Many Americans get health insurance through their employer. So if they become chronically ill to the extent that they can't work, they lose both income and access to health care. That fact alone ought to be enough to scrap our current system and come up with a universal plan for everyone.
 The rich probably can't even imagine the plight of being seriously ill and having no help available. But how dare anyone condemn plans that would assure coverage for everyone. Who among us believes that we ourselves don't deserve access to health care when needed? We don't know in advance what will befall us, what care we'll need or when. It's not a choice.
 To allow human suffering and death because of lack of health insurance is beyond a moral outrage. It is primitive, uncivilized, barbaric and unforgivable in a country as rich as the United States.
 Nancy Bennett O'Hagan Swatragh, Northern Ireland Aug. 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I suggest that if Congress does not adopt the ''public option'' provision as part of health care reform, all members of Congress be required to obtain their health care insurance through private carriers exclusively.
 Paul G. Bursiek Boulder, Colo., Aug. 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''The Uninsured'' speaks to the concerns that every thinking American should have about the backlash against health insurance reform. Except for the very rich, everyone in this country is one illness or one layoff away from having no health insurance.
 More and more companies are offering insurance only to the employee and not to his or her family. Many are no longer offering health insurance. With the economic downturn and lower-paying jobs replacing those that have been lost, this is likely to continue. 
 As things stand now, the uninsured cost all of us money when they go to the emergency room. If they can't afford to pay their bills, either the government pays for them with taxpayer dollars or those of us with insurance pay for them with higher premiums.
 How would the millions without any or adequate insurance affect our society during an epidemic? I hope we don't have to find out if an even more extensive swine flu outbreak occurs, as is being predicted.
 I've heard it said that a nation's greatness is measured by how it treats its weakest members. If we are truly as great a nation as we believe, let's prove it by passing health insurance reform now.
 Jacqueline Parrish Philadelphia, Aug. 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Public Option That Works,'' by William H. Dow, Arindrajit Dube and Carrie Hoverman Colla (Op-Ed, Aug. 22):
 It is gratifying to see San Francisco's universal health plan, Healthy San Francisco, receive glowing marks from economists. But a few salient points might limit this program's applicability elsewhere.
 San Francisco has long preserved a relatively extensive safety net of public health clinics and other services, including a large public hospital -- a sadly endangered species. We also have one of the highest ratios of physicians per resident anywhere. 
 Nationally, a broader ''public option'' is probably necessary for true reform. Locally, San Francisco has been called ''49 square miles surrounded by reality,'' and this program is one reason many of us here are proud of that.
 Steve Heilig San Francisco, Aug. 22, 2009
 The writer was a member of the Universal Health Council, which designed Healthy San Francisco, and is co-editor of Cambridge Quarterly of Healthcare Ethics.
 To the Editor:
 San Francisco boasts that it gives its citizens health benefits under the Healthy San Francisco program, but in reality local employers do not bear the ultimate cost -- the workers do.
 Studies show that corporate profits have soared during the last 30 years while hourly workers' earnings have been stagnant. To say that San Francisco provides health benefits paid for by employers under the notion of ''shared responsibility'' is misleading and leads to nowhere regarding health care reform.
 Spyros Andreopoulos Stanford, Calif., Aug. 22, 2009
 The writer is director emeritus, Office of Communication and Public Affairs, Stanford University School of Medicine. 
 To the Editor:
 How encouraging to learn that a problem as challenging as health care reform can be resolved when people behave in a responsible manner that builds community and defines our humanity.
 Bill Lavine West Hartford, Conn., Aug. 22, 2009
 The writer is a periodontist.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); CHRONIC DISEASES (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); INSURANCE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (52%); RESEARCH REPORTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



665 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: A High-Tech Home for Multimillion-Dollar Works of Art

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Over the decades, Red Hook, Brooklyn, has been home to many things: a brawny, corrupt waterfront; free-range prostitution; a sprawling housing project once pocked by drugs and gunfire; artists seeking space and the hunters of cool who inevitably follow them. 
 Now the neighborhood is about to land one of its odder residents -- an enormous, high-tech warehouse with security worthy of James Bond, all to protect the multimillion-dollar artworks, manuscripts, furniture and even rare cars that Christie's, the upscale auction house, plans to store on the docks. 
 The pearl-gray colossus, one of two former New York Dock Company loft buildings, is not much to look at now, housing piles of dust and detritus as it looms over the weeds and gritty businesses of Imlay Street. But come January, Christie's executives say, the building will boast infrared video cameras, biometric readers and motion-activated monitors, as well as smoke-, heat- and water-detection systems.
 Inside, the warehouse will hold the likes of van Gogh, Monet, Picasso and Brancusi, with each collection potentially worth more than the building itself.
 ''It's not residential, it's industrial, it's quiet, it can be very secure and we liked the location very near the city,'' Joe Stasko, the international managing director for Christie's Fine Art Storage Services, said of the property, for which the company has signed a lease for 30 years. ''We're looking at this as a long-term investment and as a long-term service that we provide to our clients.''
 Christie's has operated a fine-art storage business in London for 25 years, but is expanding its facilities to Singapore and New York as demand for holding space has grown among collectors and dealers around the globe. The company is looking to expand further, Mr. Stasko said, and is scouting additional properties in the United States, Europe and Asia.
 The Red Hook warehouse, with its concrete-and-steel structure and 250,000 square feet spread over six stories, is ideal for creating customized, air-purified, climate- and humidity-controlled storage units and private viewing galleries, Mr. Stasko said, adding that its location near a cruise ship port makes it a convenient and known taxi destination for clients.
 But for all the high-toned gloss of, say, a $140 million Pollock drip painting or a $100 million diamond-studded platinum skull coming to an area that once funneled grain, sugar, coffee and cotton to points near and far, the Christie's move to the mangy waterfront does not represent another nail in the coffin of urban industry.
 Instead, it comes as an arts-based manufacturing center is emerging just three miles away.
 At the Brooklyn Navy Yard, a company called Surroundart is adding a new building, and will ultimately have almost 20 times the space of its original 8,000-square-foot operation. The company, which works with museums, galleries and private collectors, not only stores art but also makes specialized shipping crates for it and offers transportation and consulting services. 
 ''This is 21st-century manufacturing,'' said Andrew H. Kimball, president of the Navy Yard, where other creative businesses have clustered, drawing workers from the surrounding areas in an artier replay of last century's blue-collar pattern. ''It's smart industry that's growing,'' he added, as developers figure out ''how we adaptively reuse big multistory industrial buildings.'' 
 In the case of the big multistory industrial buildings at 160 and 62 Imlay Street, the developer Bruce B. Federman originally bought them in 2000 and 2002 for about $22 million altogether.
 One of the largest commercial and industrial landlords in the city, Mr. Federman planned to capitalize on the proximity to Lower Manhattan and spectacular views across New York Harbor by converting the industrial lofts to high-end apartments. He moved first on 160 Imlay, winning a variance in 2003 from the Board of Standards and Appeals to change the use from manufacturing to residential.
 Construction, however, was delayed by a lawsuit from the Red Hook-Gowanus Chamber of Commerce, which sought to preserve the site's industrial use.
 By the time Mr. Federman won the right to proceed in 2007, he said, the residential market was already questionable, so he postponed the project and turned his attention to 62 Imlay, deciding a long-term commercial tenant would make more sense. Now that he has signed the lease with Christie's, he said, he would consider a similar arrangement for 160, which had already been gutted and shrouded in black netting in anticipation of expensive residences to come.
 Instead, the site will play host to whatever expensive objects the well-heeled clients of Christie's decide to store there, along with what Mr. Federman lures to its sibling building. That could be a charter school, back offices and record storage for a law firm or some sort of industrial distribution center, he said.
 ''I still think it will be a fantastic residential conversion, but with the economic climate being what it is today,'' Mr. Federman said, ''it may make sense to do a Christie's-like commercial deal and treat it as a bond -- you, know, put it away for 30 years, let my children see what's happening 30 years from now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christie's, the auction house, is renovating a warehouse in Red Hook, Brooklyn, to store valuables for collectors and dealers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PROSTITUTION (78%); MOTION DETECTORS (76%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (73%); BIOMETRICS (71%); NAVIES (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); CRUISES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (77%); SINGAPORE (74%); EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



666 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BENDHEIM, ROBERT

 BODY:
BENDHEIM--Robert, former president and chairman of M. Lowenstein Corporation, died on Friday, August 21st in Greenwich, CT. He was 93. Mr. Bendheim lived in Greenwich, and had a home in Lyford Cay, Nassau. The Lowenstein Company was a major textile firm, which manufactured apparel and industrial fabrics, and Wamsutta and Pacific home furnishings. Mr. Bendheim started with the company as a trainee in 1946, and served as its chief executive officer from 1972 until 1985, when the company sold to Springs Industries. 
During this same period, Mr. Bendheim was also an officer and director of the Leon Lowenstein Foundation, Inc., serving as its president since 1976. The Foundation bears the name of Mr. Bendheim's uncle, Leon Lowenstein, who started the Foundation in 1941. The Foundation's principal grants are for medical research and education. Over the years, large grants have been given to Mt. Sinai, Columbia Presbyterian, and Sloan Kettering medical centers, and in education, to Princeton and Fordham universities, the Wharton School of Economics, and programs for improvement of the New York City public schools. Mr. Bendheim graduated from Princeton University in 1937 and attended the Harvard Business School. He served in the United States Navy as a lieutenant from 1942 to 1946, and he received an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Fordham University in 1966. He was on the Board of Trustees of Mt. Sinai Hospital, the Boards of Fordham University, and United Way of New York, and served on various committees of Princeton University. His clubs included the Round Hill and Stanwich in Greenwich, Lyford Cay in Nassau, the Princeton Club and the River Club in New York City. He is survived by his beloved wife, Jane, his two daughters by a previous marriage, Lynn Bendheim Thoman and Kim Bendheim, his step-daughter, Josephine Poole, his brother, John M. Bendheim of Scarsdale, New York, and four grandchildren. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street on Thursday, August 27th, at 11:30am. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Bendheim Finance Center at Princeton University, or Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TEXTILES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); FABRICS (72%); NAVIES (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (83%); US NAVY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



667 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Reader's Digest Requests Bankruptcy Protection

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: PLEASANTVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The Reader's Digest Association filed for prearranged Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday as it faced falling print circulation in the Internet age and looming debt payments.
 Known for its heartwarming stories about American life as other publications printed edgier fare, the company's flagship, Reader's Digest magazine, has lost circulation in the United States. That circulation fell to just over eight million last year, from a peak of more than 17 million in the 1970s. 
 Reader's Digest said the prearranged bankruptcy filing, which affects only United States operations, would give lenders a 92.5 percent ownership stake in exchange for lowering its indebtedness to $550 million, from $2.2 billion. The company has obtained the approval of more than 80 percent of its senior secured lenders, critical for a quicker departure from bankruptcy protection.
 ''We look forward to emerging with a restructured balance sheet and as a financially stronger organization that is positioned to pursue growth and transformational initiatives,'' the chief executive, Mary G. Berner, said in a statement.
 Ms. Berner cited problems with two underperforming properties the company agreed to sell last year: Books Are Fun Ltd., which sells books at book fairs and other events, and QSP, which helps schools and youth groups raise money.
 Ms. Berner has said that ad pages for the company's American magazines are down less than 6 percent through the September issues. The publications' homier feel, instead of a high reliance on luxury and high-income tastes, has an added attraction to advertisers in a recession that has hurt much of print media.
 The filing had been expected after the company said last week it had reached an agreement with a majority of its lenders.
 The publisher has struggled with a heavy debt load since Ripplewood Holdings, a New York private equity firm, led a consortium of investors in a $1.6 billion buyout of the company in 2007.
 The company's senior secured lenders have committed $150 million in new debtor-in-possession financing that can be converted into exit financing once Reader's Digest leaves bankruptcy protection. The publisher said the financing should give it ample liquidity for its restructuring and the future. Its international operations are expected to run on existing money from continuing operations and proceeds from the debtor-in-possession financing.
 Reader's Digest went public in 1990 and was controlled by a charitable foundation set up by the company's founders, DeWitt and Lila Wallace. The company bought out the foundation's shares in 2002. Ripplewood and other investors stepped in five years later.
 All of the company's board members who have served since Ripplewood's acquisition have resigned, except Ms. Berner. Two members who recently joined will continue to serve.
 The publisher expects to emerge from bankruptcy protection 45 to 90 days after the filing, which was made at the United States Bankruptcy Court in New York. Reader's Digest publishes 94 magazines and sells about 40 million books, music and video products each year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); APPROVALS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (62%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (93%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (90%); BOOKS ARE FUN LTD (68%); RIPPLEWOOD HOLDINGS LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: MARY G BERNER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



668 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Nominate Bernanke to Continue Role as Fed Chief

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama on Tuesday will nominate Ben S. Bernanke to a second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve, administration officials said.
 The announcement is a major victory for Mr. Bernanke, a Republican who was appointed by President George W. Bush almost four years ago and who had briefly served as chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers.
 A top White House official said Mr. Obama had decided to keep Mr. Bernanke at the helm of the Fed because he had been bold and brilliant in his attempts to combat the financial crisis and the deep recession. 
 ''The president thinks that Ben's done a great job as Fed chairman, that he has helped the economy through one of the worst experiences since the Great Depression and that he has essentially been pulling the economy back from the brink of what would have been the second Great Depression,'' the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, said Monday night.
 Mr. Obama will announce his decision, with Mr. Bernanke at his side, at 9 a.m. at an appearance at Oak Bluffs School on Martha's Vineyard, where the Obama family is vacationing this week.
 White House officials said that Mr. Obama had effectively decided four or five weeks ago that he wanted Mr. Bernanke to continue, and that he formally discussed the job with him last week at a meeting with the Fed chairman in the White House.
 The senior official said Mr. Obama did not offer the job to anyone else, even though a number of high-powered Democratic economists were considered potentially strong candidates to replace him.
 Mr. Bernanke, who spent most of his career as a professor of economics, most recently at Princeton, took over the Fed in February 2006. His current four-year term as chairman will expire on Jan. 31. 
 When Mr. Obama was elected, many Democrats considered one of the most likely contenders for Fed chairman to be Lawrence H. Summers, a former Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton and currently director of the National Economic Council in Mr. Obama's White House.
 Other rumored candidates included Alan S. Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton and a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve under Alan Greenspan; Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco; and Roger Ferguson, another former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve who is currently president of TIAA-CREF, the giant pension fund company.
 Mr. Bernanke was a clear favorite among economists, especially those specializing in central banking and monetary policy.
 A quiet and often unprepossessing person, Mr. Bernanke was a leading scholar of the Depression who had broken important ground on the links between financial crises and the real economy. In his work on what he called the ''financial accelerator,'' Mr. Bernanke argued that a run on banks or other disruptions in financial markets could turn a relatively mild downturn into a severe one.
 Supporters of Mr. Bernanke, including many current and former Fed officials, said his academic background provided almost perfect preparation for the financial crisis that began when panic over mortgage-backed securities began spreading through the broader credit markets in late July 2007.
 Unless the economy suffers another big shock, Mr. Bernanke is all but certain to win Senate confirmation for another term.
 The financial system, which nearly collapsed last September after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, is now in far better shape and credit markets have been operating much closer to normal for the last several months.
 Nonetheless, some analysts caution that the economy is still so fragile that financial markets would react badly if President Obama decided to install new leadership at the Fed anytime soon.
 ''He's the best person for the job,'' John Makin, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, said of Mr. Bernanke. ''Why would anyone want to change the Fed chairman now?''
 Most economists now predict that the United States recession either has already ended or is about to end very soon. Although unemployment is 9.4 percent, higher than at any time since the early 1980s, a wide array of indicators suggest that the economy has hit bottom and is about to begin a slow if painful recovery.
 The Dow Jones industrial average has soared since hitting bottom in March, and the stock index hit a new high for the year last Friday after new data indicated that sales of existing homes jumped much more sharply last month than most analysts had expected. On the same day, Mr. Bernanke cautiously delivered his most optimistic assessment in the last year, saying that prospects for a resumption of economic growth were good for both the United States and the global economy.
 But Mr. Bernanke will not have an entirely easy time in winning Senate confirmation. Many lawmakers in both parties have been highly critical of the Federal Reserve's efforts to bail out major financial institutions over the last year.
 Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, a Democrat and the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, has repeatedly chastised the Fed for failing to recognize the dangers in reckless mortgage lending and inflated housing prices that set off the financial crisis.
 Mr. Dodd has been skeptical if not flatly opposed to giving the Federal Reserve more authority to regulate ''systemic risk'' and to supervise giant institutions deemed too big to fail. Yet, he said he supported the decision to reappoint Mr. Bernanke.
 Mr. Dodd also told Mr. Bernanke, in a Senate hearing last month, that his complaints about the Fed were primarily institutional rather than aimed personally at the chairman himself.
 Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, a Democrat and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has also praised Mr. Bernanke.
 ''I think Bernanke has done a very good job,'' he said last week, praising his decisiveness in introducing emergency credit programs and in cutting interest rates to fend off the crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke appeared before a House committee on June 3.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RECESSION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); PENSION FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (63%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); BILL CLINTON (74%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



669 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: In Health Care Debate, Bioethicist Becomes a Lightning Rod for Criticism

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Few people hold a more uncomfortable place at the health care debate's intersection between nuanced policy and cable-ready political rhetoric than President Obama's special health care adviser, Dr. Ezekiel J. Emanuel.
 Largely quoting his past writings out of context this summer, Betsy McCaughey, a former lieutenant governor of New York, labeled Dr. Emanuel a ''deadly doctor'' who believes health care should be ''reserved for the nondisabled'' -- a false assertion that Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, repeated on the House floor.
 Former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska has asserted that Dr. Emanuel's ''Orwellian'' approach to health care would ''refuse to allocate medical resources to the elderly, the infirm and the disabled who have less economic potential,'' accusations similarly made by the political provocateur Lyndon H. LaRouche Jr. 
 In fact, Dr. Emanuel has written more than a million words on health care, some of which form the philosophical underpinnings of the Obama administration plan and some of which have enough free-market elements to win grudging respect from some conservative opponents. 
 The debate over Dr. Emanuel shows how subtle philosophical arguments that have long bedeviled bioethicists are being condensed, oversimplified and distorted in the griddle-hot health care debate. His writings grapple with some of the most complex issues of medical ethics, like who should get the kidney transplant, the younger patient or the one who is older and sicker? 
 Perhaps it should come as no surprise that Dr. Emanuel, an oncologist, has come to personify the most intense attacks on the president's plan. 
 He is the older brother of the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, and the Hollywood superagent Ari Emanuel. As a leading bioethicist at Harvard and at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Emanuel had a reputation for pushing limits while exploring uncomfortable life-and-death issues in starkly academic terms.
 The level of vitriol against him has led even some conservative opponents to defend Dr. Emanuel while expressing concern that it is overtaking what they say are more vital real-world critiques.
 ''He is a serious oncologist and bioethicist, so the kinds of charges that have been raised against him are particularly inappropriate,'' said Gail R. Wilensky, a Republican and senior White House health care adviser under the first President George Bush who criticizes Mr. Obama's plan as being too reliant on the federal government. 
 Given Dr. Emanuel's well-publicized repudiations of doctor-assisted suicide and voluntary euthanasia, and his calls for a national health insurance voucher system that would eventually eliminate Medicare, Medicaid and employer-provided insurance -- nonstarters at the White House -- Dr. Emanuel says he is perplexed by depictions of him as a socialist euthanasia proponent.
 ''You can only call me someone who's interested in euthanizing patients and denying care to patients by willful distortion of my record,'' he said in an interview.
 Dr. Emanuel rose to prominence in the late 1980s with a popular standardized medical directive that made it easier for terminally ill patients to share their wishes with doctors before becoming too sick to speak for themselves. 
 Concerned with the hard questions that arise without such directives, Dr. Emanuel included in his 1991 book, ''The Ends of Human Life'' (Harvard University Press), a critique of a court ruling upholding a family's request to end treatment for a dying, mentally incapacitated daughter. He argued that the ruling, in the case of Karen Ann Quinlan, did not provide an adequate ethical framework for such a weighty decision in the absence of a patient's stated wishes.
 In a 1997 article in The Atlantic, he argued against doctor-assisted suicide and euthanasia, warning it would ''become the rule in the context of demographic and budgetary pressures,'' and ''would make us want to extend the option to others who, in society's view, are suffering and leading purposeless lives'' -- concerns reflecting the exact opposite of the views his critics now ascribe to him. 
 Peter R. Orszag, the president's budget director, said in an interview that he had hired Dr. Emanuel on his own merits, as opposed to his brother's advice, after he offered to help with health care policy. Mr. Orszag said he was not surprised that Dr. Emanuel's writings had drawn scrutiny.
 ''You can look at anyone who has written tons of stuff and play the same game,'' he said. 
 Ms. McCaughey seemed to have evidence for her conclusion that ''he explicitly defends discrimination against older patients'' in a recent New York Post opinion article. She quoted from a paper he co-wrote for Lancet in January: ''Even if 25-year-olds receive priority over 65-year-olds, everyone who is 65 years now was previously 25.''
 But she did not report that the paper was addressing the allocation of ''very scarce resources'' like kidneys or vaccines, not the system in general.
 Dr. Emanuel's argument -- that young adults should take priority in vying for limited health resources because they will get more years of life from them -- is a fairly mainstream if unpleasant approach to a problem with only bad choices, ethicists and doctors of varying persuasions say.
 ''These kinds of dilemmas go on every day in clinical practice,'' said Dr. Scott Gottlieb, a physician and scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group. ''There's a very big leap to say his contemplations about how doctors contend with these issues extends to saying he believes government should take on these issues.'' 
 Dr. Gottlieb opposes the administration's proposals, calling them too prescriptive, too expensive, and too open to eventual increased rationing.
 In a brief interview, Ms. McCaughey said that either way, because of its Medicare cost cuts, ''the president's proposal will force hospitals to operate with scarce resources.'' 
 The administration disputes that assertion. 
 Ms. McCaughey, Ms. Palin and others have based accusations that Dr. Emanuel would direct treatment away from the disabled on a 1996 paper he wrote for the Hastings Center bioethics institute.
 In it, Dr. Emanuel did not assert that ''medical care should be reserved for the nondisabled, '' as the critics have said.
 The paper laid out what he called a growing consensus among competing political philosophies about how a society should allocate health care services. In clinical terms, he said that consensus held that those who ''are irreversibly prevented from being or becoming participating citizens'' should not be guaranteed the same level of treatment as others.
 He cited as an example, ''not guaranteeing health services to patients with dementia.''
 Dr. Emanuel said he was simply describing a consensus held by others, not himself. 
 But even some colleagues said in interviews that the paper did not go far enough in repudiating the view.
 ''He doesn't ever endorse it, nor does he explicitly distance himself from it,'' said Thomas H. Murray, president of the Hastings Center. But, Mr. Murray added, ''anyone who would attribute this isolated sentence to his convictions, it's just unfair.''
 Dr. Emanuel said he understood some of the criticisms.
 ''Maybe if I had been a smarter, more careful thinker about how people could interpret it, I would have qualified it and condemned it more robustly,'' he said. ''In my 1.2, 1.3 million written words, you can't find another sentence that even comes close to advocating that in my voice. When I advocate, I'm not shy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Ezekiel J. Emanuel, a bioethicist, oncologist and White House adviser on health care, has come to personify the most intense attacks on the Obama plan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); BIOETHICS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICARE (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); MEDICAL ETHICS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); ONCOLOGY (69%); DEATH & DYING (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (67%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (67%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); SUICIDE (60%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (79%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



670 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Central Bankers Seen as Heroes

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS and LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke's job as chairman of the Federal Reserve looks secure. But he already seems to be drafting his own version of economic history.
 In remarks to central bankers from around the world who were gathered this weekend at the Federal Reserve's annual retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyo., Mr. Bernanke, the leading member of the profession, blamed investors for the crisis and praised -- would you believe it? -- central bankers for their response. 
 The Bernanke narrative starts by glossing over a big mistake. The retreat last year took place weeks before the fall of Lehman Brothers, which precipitated the biggest financial collapse since the Great Depression. Mr. Bernanke casually excused this blindness, saying ''we could not fully appreciate'' what was coming a few weeks later. 
 As far as he is concerned, the reason things got so bad so fast was that investors freaked out. The crisis showed ''some features of a classic panic,'' he said. This characterization of the crisis conveniently gives forecasters a free pass. Mood swings, after all, are unpredictable. 
 For Mr. Bernanke, central bankers were the heroes. In the face of irrational hordes, they offered liquidity and a host of innovative policies, ensuring that financial panic did not lead to a new Great Depression. His assessment isn't exactly wrong, but as a historical record it is incomplete and far too generous to central bankers. 
 One reason the Fed and its peers did not anticipate the financial crisis was that they misunderstood the system's chemistry. Their own boom-time policies were an incendiary cocktail. A full account of the crisis would lay blame on interest rates kept too low for too long, poor supervision of lending and an indulgent attitude toward financial innovation. 
 The past errors suggest Mr. Bernanke is premature in praising the central bankers' decisive response. With ultralow policy rates and extensive market support, central banks have entered unknown territory. Bad results -- high inflation, a feeble recovery or even another financial crisis -- could yet lead to another of Mr. Bernanke's ''panics.''
 Comforted by Fees
 JPMorgan Chase stopped doing big leveraged buyouts on its own five years ago, after its takeover of Warner Chilcott, a pharmaceutical company, annoyed big clients like TPG, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and the Blackstone Group. 
 Now, with Warner Chilcott's $3.1 billion deal to buy Procter & Gamble's drug business, the bank's former private equity arm is minting cash. So it would be understandable if JPMorgan shareholders felt a twinge of seller's remorse. Luckily, they have a bonanza of fees to salve the pain.
 The bank parted ways with JPMorgan Partners in 2005 after the private equity subsidiary outperformed rival firms including TPG in an auction for Warner Chilcott, which was then listed in London. In response, TPG threatened to pull business from JPMorgan. Shortly after, JPMorgan spun off the buyout arm, though it retained a smaller one connected with Bank One, a Chicago bank it acquired. 
 That move certainly appeased clients. Over the next three years, JPMorgan's investment bank collected an estimated $4.5 billion in fees from buyout firms and was the largest private equity fee-earner globally, according to Dealogic. 
 But the opportunity cost is now becoming apparent. Warner Chilcott went public again in 2006. Today, its equity is worth nearly $4 billion more than the private equity team put into the original buyout, though that didn't all accrue to JPMorgan Partners. 
 Warner Chilcott's takeover of Procter & Gamble's drug division brings JPMorgan Partners and other shareholders another windfall. In a leveraged buyout flashback, Warner Chilcott will take on more than $3 billion of debt, but the Procter & Gamble operations should generate enough cash to pay down the loans within five years. 
 Moreover, the reluctance of other bidders to pay up has allowed Warner Chilcott to pick up the business cheaply, at around half its own price-to-earnings multiple. As a result, shares of Warner Chilcott jumped more than 30 percent, making JPMorgan's former buyout arm $190 million richer. 
 But don't cry for JPMorgan, which is benefiting from its stepchild's success. 
 It was a chief adviser to Warner Chilcott and is a big lender to the deal. Of course, having emerged stronger from the recent financial crisis, JPMorgan probably would have obtained that business anyway. Pity it doesn't also get to fully feast on Warner Chilcott's profits. 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warner Chilcott, maker of drugs like the acne treatment Doryx, is getting bigger.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JB REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (84%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (84%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); HISTORY (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); KKR & CO LP (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); WARNER CHILCOTT PLC (52%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); KKR (NYSE) (62%); BX (NYSE) (57%); WCRX (NASDAQ) (52%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) WYOMING, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



671 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Shares Pause After Recent Gains, While Oil Rises

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Worries about the consumer restrained Wall Street's momentum on Monday, reflecting investors' concerns that the economy might limp along if Americans did not start spending again.
 Stock markets ended mixed, sapping some of the momentum from last week's buying spree. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.32 points, just 0.03 percent, to end at 9,509.28. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell less than a point to end at 1,025.57, and the Nasdaq fell 2.92 points to 2,017.98. 
 Commodity prices rose as investors placed additional bets on a global turnaround. The price of oil rose to its highest point of the year. Copper also gained.
 Investors edged away from consumer-focused companies like clothing retailers, food companies and furniture makers. Shares of Home Depot and Coca-Cola fell the most among blue-chip stocks.
 Shares of major auto dealers and retailers like AutoNation and Penske Automotive sagged as the government's cash-for-clunkers rebate program was set to end. Dealers have until noon on Tuesday to file applications for the government's $3 billion program, which offered rebates for car owners to exchange their gas guzzlers for more fuel-efficient models.
 The program drew people back to dealerships, but analysts said the wave of car buyers might recede without hefty government subsidies.
 But investors continued to warm to energy producers like Chevron and ConocoPhillips. Shares swung higher as crude oil prices rose 48 cents, to $74.37 a barrel.
 Last week, indexes moved nearly 2 percent higher on an unexpected rise in home sales and an optimistic outlook for growth from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Speaking to central bankers and economists, Mr. Bernanke said, ''the prospects for a return to growth in the near term appear good.'' 
 But one concern, analysts said, is whether the economy can sustain long-term growth after businesses restock their depleted inventories and increase their production from record low levels. Many forecasters expect the economy to grow in the third and fourth quarters as the recession fades, but some warn the rebound could be long and difficult.
 ''This recovery is going to have a lot of fits and starts because the consumer is still under major stress,'' said Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak. 
 This week, investors will get more insight into consumer behavior. The government is set to release the latest numbers on personal income and spending on Friday, and it will release revised estimates of the gross domestic product on Thursday. 
 The government's advance report on G.D.P. found that the economy shrank at a rate of 1 percent in the second quarter. While categories like trade and government spending helped to lift domestic output, consumer spending fell at an annual rate of 1.2 percent.
 And investors who trade government bonds -- a safe purchase in tumultuous times -- were not banking on any springboard to recovery on Monday.
 The 10-year-Treasury note rose 23/32 to 101 7/32. The yield fell to 3.48 percent, from 3.56 percent late Friday.
 ''The stock market is sending this message of optimism while the U.S. Treasury market is sending another message,'' Mr. Boockvar said. ''Both can't be right.''
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, when shares of consumer-related companies fell and oil stocks advanced.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAILERS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (72%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); FURNITURE MFG (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); AUTONATION INC (56%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (56%); AN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (56%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



672 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Fury in Britain Grows Over Release of Lockerbie Convict

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The uproar in Britain over the release of the only person convicted in the Lockerbie bombing gathered momentum on Monday, with critics saying at an emergency session of the Scottish Parliament that the Scottish justice secretary, Kenny MacAskill, had brought shame on Scotland and jeopardized its relations with the United States. 
 The fury in Edinburgh, the Scottish capital, echoed indignation in the United States from President Obama; the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III; prominent senators; and relatives of those who died on Pan Am Flight 103 when it exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, on Dec. 21, 1988, killing 270 people, including 189 Americans. The release has developed into the most abrasive issue between Britain and the United States in years, and, opposition critics said in Edinburgh, one that could damage Scotland's tourism and investment from the United States. 
 Annabel Goldie, of the opposition Conservatives, said the minority government of Alex Salmond, Scotland's first minister, could have spared the country the opprobrium by transferring the prisoner, Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, to a safe house or a hospice in Scotland, where he could have received care for the terminal cancer that Mr. MacAskill cited in freeing him. Mr. Megrahi, 57, a former Libyan intelligence agent, was flown to Libya from a Scottish prison on Thursday. The compassion cited by Mr. MacAskill in justifying his decision could have been better served by keeping him in Scotland, Ms. Goldie said, than by having ''a convicted terrorist being feted as a hero in Libya to a backdrop of waving Saltires,'' Scotland's blue-and-white flag.
 Mr. MacAskill sought to fend off the attacks, saying Mr. Megrahi's release was approved solely because of his illness and not because of ''economic considerations'' relating to Libyan oil deals, as opposition politicians and newspaper editorials in Britain have suggested. The government of Prime Minister Gordon Brown ducked for cover, declining to say whether it supported the decision to return Mr. Megrahi home.
 With Mr. Brown on vacation and the British Parliament in summer recess, the government seemed intent on trying to keep at a distance from the turmoil in the hope that the issue would lose its potency by the time Parliament returns in the fall. A prominent Conservative lawmaker, Liam Fox, described Mr. Brown's role since the bomber's release as that of ''the invisible man.''
 With his silence, Mr. Brown has appeared eager to draw a veil over negotiations with Libya in the past five years in which, it was previously acknowledged, oil deals and Mr. Megrahi's release were central to the agenda. Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, a son of the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, said in a television interview on the plane carrying Mr. Megrahi home that his release was ''always on the negotiating table'' when oil and gas deals were discussed with Britain. Colonel Qaddafi promised when he met Mr. Megrahi that Britain would be rewarded for his release.
 Peter Mandelson, Britain's business minister and a close aide to Mr. Brown, said over the weekend that he had discussed Mr. Megrahi twice this year in meetings with the younger Mr. Qaddafi. But Mr. Mandelson said there was no quid pro quo linking oil deals to the release.
 But his assertions came into doubt after The Sunday Times of London reported details of a letter that it said Ivan Lewis, a junior Foreign Office minister, had written to Mr. MacAskill two weeks before the release saying there was no legal impediment to sending Mr. Megrahi to Libya under a prisoner transfer agreement that Britain and Libya ratified in April. 
 ''I hope on this basis you will now feel able to consider the Libyan application in accordance with the provisions of the prisoner transfer agreement,'' Mr. Lewis wrote, according to the newspaper.
 In his remarks to the Scottish Parliament, Mr. MacAskill hinted at something that many critics of the Brown government had suggested -- that it hid behind a veil of ambiguity and evasion in its dealings with the Scottish authorities, so as to encourage Edinburgh to approve the bomber's return home under the prisoner transfer agreement without Mr. Brown and his ministers having to take responsibility for the decision themselves. 
 Mr. MacAskill said he had received a perfunctory answer this summer when he wrote to Jack Straw, justice minister in the Brown government, asking the government to ''make representations or provide information'' regarding the proposed release. ''They declined to do so,'' he said. ''They simply informed me that they saw no legal barrier to transfer and that they gave no assurances to the U.S. government at the time. They declined to offer a full explanation. I found that highly regrettable.'' 
 He contrasted the British reply with what he had been told weeks before his decision when he met with American officials, including Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who as deputy attorney general oversaw issues relating to the Megrahi trial before it began in 2001. He said Mr. Holder had been ''adamant'' that Britain had given Washington assurances that any sentence imposed at the trial would be served in Scotland, and that he had been told the same by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Mr. MacAskill said that the conflicting responses in London and Washington left him uncertain as to what had been agreed to by the two governments, but that he was convinced that ''the American families and government had an expectation, or were led to believe, that there would be no prisoner transfer and the sentence would be served in Scotland.'' He said ''many of the American families'' had spoken of ''the comfort they placed on these assurances'' when he talked with them in a video conference before his decision. 
 Accordingly, he said, he had decided to deny Mr. Megrahi's application for a prisoner transfer and to approve his return to Libya under compassionate grounds, which he described as an act of ''mercy'' for a dying man.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a handout photo, Libyans greeted Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi in Tripoli late on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OYA NEWSPAPER, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HOSPICE (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); TERRORISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PRISONS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); CANCER (67%); TOURISM (54%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (79%); LIAM FOX (58%); ALEX SALMOND (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (94%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SCOTLAND (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



673 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: China Racing Ahead of U.S. in Drive to Go Solar

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: WUXI, China 

 BODY:
 President Obama wants to make the United States ''the world's leading exporter of renewable energy,'' but in his seven months in office, it is China that has stepped on the gas in an effort to become the dominant player in green energy -- especially in solar power, and even in the United States.
 Chinese companies have already played a leading role in pushing down the price of solar panels by almost half over the last year. Shi Zhengrong, the chief executive and founder of China's biggest solar panel manufacturer, Suntech Power Holdings, said in an interview here that Suntech, to build market share, is selling solar panels on the American market for less than the cost of the materials, assembly and shipping. 
 Backed by lavish government support, the Chinese are preparing to build plants to assemble their products in the United States to bypass protectionist legislation. As Japanese automakers did decades ago, Chinese solar companies are encouraging their United States executives to join industry trade groups to tamp down anti-Chinese sentiment before it takes root.
 The Obama administration is determined to help the American industry. The energy and Treasury departments announced this month that they would give $2.3 billion in tax credits to clean energy equipment manufacturers. But even in the solar industry, many worry that Western companies may have fragile prospects when competing with Chinese companies that have cheap loans, electricity and labor, paying recent college graduates in engineering $7,000 a year.
 ''I don't see Europe or the United States becoming major producers of solar products -- they'll be consumers,'' said Thomas M. Zarrella, the chief executive of GT Solar International, a company in Merrimack, N.H., that sells specialized factory equipment to solar panel makers around the world. 
 Since March, Chinese governments at the national, provincial and even local level have been competing with one another to offer solar companies ever more generous subsidies, including free land, and cash for research and development. State-owned banks are flooding the industry with loans at considerably lower interest rates than available in Europe or the United States.
 Suntech, based here in Wuxi, is on track this year to pass Q-Cells of Germany, to become the world's second-largest supplier of photovoltaic cells, which would put it behind only First Solar in Tempe, Ariz. 
 Hot on Suntech's heels is a growing list of Chinese corporations backed by entrepreneurs, local governments and even the Chinese military, all seeking to capitalize on an industry deemed crucial by China's top leadership.
 Dr. Shi pointed out that other governments, including in the United States, also assist clean energy industries, including with factory construction incentives.
 China's commitment to solar energy is unlikely to make a difference soon to global warming. China's energy consumption is growing faster than any other country's, though the United States consumes more today. Beijing's aim is to generate 20,000 megawatts of solar energy by 2020 -- or less than half the capacity of coal-fired power plants that are built in China each year.
 Solar energy remains far more expensive to generate than energy from coal, oil, natural gas or even wind. But in addition to heavy Chinese investment and low Chinese costs, the global economic downturn and a decline in European subsidies to buy panels have lowered prices.
 The American economic stimulus plan requires any project receiving money to use steel and other construction materials, including solar panels, from countries that have signed the World Trade Organization's agreement on free trade in government procurement. China has not. 
 In response to this, and to reduce shipping costs, Suntech plans to announce in the next month or two that it will build a solar panel assembly plant in the United States, said Steven Chan, its president for global sales and marketing.
 ''It'll be to facilitate sales -- 'buy American' and things like that,'' Mr. Chan said, adding that the factory would have 75 to 150 workers and be located in Phoenix, or somewhere in Texas.
 But 90 percent of the workers at the $30 million factory will be blue-collar laborers, welding together panels from solar wafers made in China, Dr. Shi said. 
 Yingli Solar, another large Chinese manufacturer, said on Thursday that it also had a ''preliminary plan'' to assemble panels in the United States.
 Western rivals, meanwhile, are struggling. Q-Cells of Germany announced last week that it would lay off 500 of its 2,600 employees because of declining sales. It and two other German companies, Conergy and SolarWorld, are particularly indignant that German subsidies were the main source of demand for solar panels until recently.
 ''Politicians might ask whether this is still the right way to do this, German taxpayers paying for Asian products,'' said Markus Wieser, a Q-Cells spokesman.
 But organizing resistance to Chinese exports could be difficult, particularly as Chinese discounting makes green energy more affordable. 
 Even with Suntech acknowledging that it sells below the marginal cost of producing each additional solar panel -- that is, the cost after administrative and development costs are subtracted -- any antidumping case, in the United States, for example, would have to show that American companies were losing money as a result. 
 First Solar -- the solar leader, in Tempe -- using a different technology from many solar panel manufacturers, is actually profitable, while the new tax credits now becoming available may help other companies.
 Even organizing a united American response to Chinese exports could be difficult. Suntech has encouraged executives at its United States operations to take the top posts at the two main American industry groups, partly to make sure that these groups do not rally opposition to imports, Dr. Shi said. 
 The efforts of Detroit automakers to win protection from Japanese competition in the 1980s were weakened by the presence of Honda in their main trade group; they expelled Honda in 1992.
 Some analysts are less pessimistic about the prospects for solar panel manufacturers in the West. Joonki Song, a partner at Photon Consulting in Boston, said that while large Chinese solar panel manufacturers are gaining market share, smaller ones have been struggling.
 Mr. Zarrella of GT Solar said that Western providers of factory equipment for solar panel manufacturers would remain competitive, and Dr. Shi said that German equipment providers ''have made a lot of money, tons of money.'' 
 The Chinese government is requiring that 80 percent of the equipment for China's first municipal power plant to use solar energy, to be built in Dunhuang in northwestern China next year, be made in China.
 Dr. Shi said his company would try to prevent similar rules in any future projects.
 The reason is clear: almost 98 percent of Suntech's production goes overseas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suntech, China's biggest solar panel maker, has reduced the price of panels sold in America to build market share. (pg.A1)
 Chinese companies like Suntech, above, plan to build assembly plants in the United States to meet ''Buy American'' rules. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) GRAPHIC: CHINA'S SOLAR SHARE: Chinese companies play a rapidly growing role in the global solar industry, and have been gaining market share at the expense of American and European companies. (Source: Stefan de Haan, iSuppli Corporation) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); CONSUMPTION (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MARKET SHARE (69%); CLIMATOLOGY (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: SUNTECH POWER HOLDINGS CO LTD (57%); GT ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES INC (53%)

TICKER: STP (NYSE) (57%); K3ND (SGX) (57%); GTAT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



674 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Rhode Island: Government Shutdown Planned

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Rhode Island will shut down its state government for 12 days and trim millions of dollars in financing for local governments under a plan Gov. Donald L. Carcieri proposed to balance a budget hard-hit by surging unemployment and plummeting tax revenue. The shutdown would force 81 percent of the roughly 13,550-member state work force, excluding its college system, to stay home a dozen days without pay before the start of the new fiscal year in July. The closings come as the worst recession in decades has eliminated hundreds of millions of dollars in tax collections and pushed unemployment to 12.7 percent, the second-highest jobless rate in the nation behind Michigan. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LABOR FORCE (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (85%)

PERSON: DONALD CARCIERI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



675 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Diving Into a Troubled Commercial Real Estate Market as Others Wait on Shore

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: CANTON, Mass. 

 BODY:
This year, United States commercial property sales are down by about 90 percent from their peak in 2007, but a handful of cash-rich investors see this troubled market as a prime buying opportunity.
 A few years ago, the market was characterized by inflated appraisals, heavy reliance on debt and almost instant resale of buildings. Today's buyers pick properties more carefully, pay low prices in cash and plan to hold the buildings for years.
 But high-quality properties aren't very easy to find, since many owners are hoping for prices to rebound before they are willing to sell. In this environment, even a relatively mundane structure like the red brick building at 250 Royall Street here was in demand. In June, the fully leased 182,000-square-foot four-story suburban office building sold for $62 million. A few years ago, the same building sold for $68.8 million. 
 The buyer was G. Joseph Cosenza, president of Inland Real Estate Acquisitions of Oak Brook, Ill. His company is the largest buyer of United States commercial real estate so far this year, according to the research firm Real Capital Analytics. 
 The Canton site is among dozens of offices, shopping centers, apartment buildings and industrial structures that Mr. Cosenza has purchased across the country since the beginning of last year. After paying out $3 billion in 2008, he has spent $1 billion this year. 
 He is happy to be swimming against the tide -- buying while others watch from the sidelines. ''I say to them, thank goodness and just get out of my way,'' Mr. Cosenza said. ''We're not looking for trophies; we're buying solid income-producing real estate that is not in default.''
 Some observers say that Mr. Cosenza and other intrepid investors stand to profit handsomely. ''For the opportunity fund with the resources, it's time to make a killing,'' said David L. Funk, director of the Cornell University Program in Real Estate, a master's degree curriculum. ''In 10 years, people will look back at 2009 as the year fortunes were made.''
 Other professionals are not so sure. ''There's always a risk being first on the frontier,'' said Raymond G. Torto, global chief economist for CB Richard Ellis Group. 
 Indeed, investors may face losses because they jumped the gun, some say. ''It's too early to buy, except from really distressed sellers,'' said William F. McCall Jr., president of McCall & Almy, a Boston-based real estate adviser. ''The market has a significant way to fall.''
 Values may decline further as owners who need capital to improve buildings or refinance debt are pressured to sell or take partners. But if they are unable to raise funds in a tight credit market, ''banks may take back some properties and sell at bargain-basement prices,'' said Arthur I. Segel, a professor of management at Harvard Business School.
 Meanwhile, the weak economy continues to exert more downward pressure on values, said Karl E. Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College and co-creator of the Case-Shiller home price index. ''Every office job lost knocks off demand for 180 square feet. With 6.7 million jobs gone -- many in the service sector -- a lot of demand has evaporated.''
 While clearly a contrarian these days, Mr. Cosenza is not alone in thinking that this is the time to act. With trillions in mortgages coming due, said Neil Bluhm, a partner at Walton Street Capital L.L.C., a private equity real estate investment firm, ''there's potential to buy or joint venture at attractive prices, and unlike last summer it doesn't look like we'll have a financial crisis.'' After a year without a deal, he plans to spend $1.5 billion in the next few years on buildings or debt in Boston, New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, and he is aiming for annual returns of 20 percent.
 In Boston in July, Dietmar Georg, chairman of United States operations for Munich-based GLL Real Estate Partners, an institutional real estate investment management firm with a $5 billion fund under management, bought his third downtown office building there. He has spent $224 million in the city since last fall. 
 Battered by the recession, Boston area commercial property values are down 30 to 70 percent, depending on location, according to Robert E. Griffin Jr., New England regional president for Cushman & Wakefield; 15.8 percent of the offices are available for lease or sublease, up from 11 percent a year ago and average annual asking rents have sunk to $31 a square foot, from $39.54. But he added that the downtown Boston market, the region's hub, was still among the strongest in the nation.
 Mr. Cosenza says he thinks he knows a good deal when he sees it.
 In the real estate recession of the early 1990s, he bought 11,000 acres of vacant farmland for Inland. It was subdivided with little or no improvement and sold to residential developers. Some parcels purchased for $3,870 an acre sold for $69,000 an acre, he recalled.
 Soon Inland started private REITs, which are sold through brokers and financial advisers but are not listed on public exchanges. In 2000, it formed the Inland Retail Real Estate Trust Inc. with $4.4 billion in assets, and sold it in 2007 for $6.2 billion to the Developers Diversified Realty Corporation. 
 In 2009, he's often buying at 2000 prices, Mr. Cosenza said. ''We pay cash, keep them on the books and when the credit market changes, we'll finance,'' he said.
 Recently, he has bought 2,000 rental apartments near Houston; the United States office of the European drug maker Sanofi-Aventis in Bridgewater, N.J.; and several shopping centers anchored by supermarkets in Georgia, Florida and South Carolina.
 As for his purchase in Canton, it is a five-year-old building near Route 128, a major regional beltway, and its sole tenant -- the financial services firm Computershare Ltd. -- has 10 years to go on its lease.
 He knows the property because he bought it in 2005 for the seller: Inland Western Real Estate Trust Inc., another member of the Inland conglomerate. 
 Of the $4 billion in recent purchases, no others were within the Inland family, Mr. Cosenza noted.
 He says he intends to keep buying. ''I have another six to eight months when people will be frozen in their tracks,'' he said, ''and I'll have a clear field.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: G. Joseph Cosenza of Inland Real Estate isn't waiting for trophies -- he's buying now.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); RETAILERS (73%); CURRICULA (71%); SUBURBS (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (67%)

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (84%); INLAND REAL ESTATE CORP (56%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (84%); IRC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



676 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: JAPAN IS BRACING FOR POWER SHIFT

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japanese voters finally seem willing to oust the long-governing Liberal Democratic Party. But after decades of a virtual one-party state, the Japanese now are confronting what a change of power would actually mean.
 Opinion polls show the main opposition Democratic Party heading into national elections on Sunday with a widening lead over the Liberal Democrats, who have governed Japan almost continuously since 1955. Voters are turning to the opposition out of disgust with what they see as the unresponsive Liberal Democrats and their bungled handling of Japan's economy -- which has led to nearly 20 years of stagnation and the loss of Japan's once proud status as an economic superpower.
 The opposition is now scrambling to prove it deserves this long-awaited chance, and can take the country in a new direction -- strengthening the social safety net to ease growing inequalities, and perhaps keeping slightly more distance from the United States. 
 But the Democratic Party's biggest appeal may be its promise to transform Japanese politics by making them more transparent and responsive. It vows to do so by ending the Liberal Democrats' backroom style of rule and their over-reliance on Tokyo's powerful central bureaucracy, which sets policy on the governing party's behalf. 
 ''More than the policies, we want to change the very dynamism of Japanese politics,'' Katsuya Okada, the Democratic Party's secretary general, said in an interview. ''Just having a transition of power will by itself make a huge difference.'' 
 The possibility of such a transition, after more than a half-century of nearly unbroken rule by the Liberal Democrats, has gripped the nation's attention. A poll released Monday by the national broadcaster NHK showed that 90 percent of voters intended to cast their ballot, far above the 68 percent turnout in the last lower house election four years ago.
 Voters' expectations seem limited about what the Democrats would achieve, given their inexperience and often lackluster leadership. After years of struggle to build a coherent party from a broad spectrum of conservative splinter groups and former leftists founded in 1998, the Democrats' platform is not very different from the Liberal Democrats. 
 Neither the opposition nor the incumbents have fully addressed longstanding problems facing Japan, such as paying for a rapidly aging population despite soaring deficits.
 Rather, the hope here is if voters do hand the Democrats a victory, that could infuse new blood into a political system that has grown increasingly sclerotic under Liberal Democratic rule. That brings a bigger question: Is Japan ready for a more contentious brand of politics, in which voters decide between political parties, and parties in turn wield real power?
 Ever since Japan's emergence as a modern state more than a century ago, political parties have tended to be a sideshow to the real business of running the country, which has been left to bureaucrats. It has not helped that Japan, despite being East Asia's oldest representative political system, never seized democracy through a popular uprising, as in neighboring South Korea. 
 Instead, its modern constitutions and parliamentary systems were bestowed from above, first by samurai reformers in the name of the emperor in the late 19th century, and then by American occupiers after defeat in World War II.
 The result has been a politically apathetic public. Now, political analysts say the biggest significance of a Democratic Party victory would be demonstrating to Japanese voters that they can actually shape the direction of their nation. 
 ''Just having choice will bring a huge, huge change in the political culture of Japan,'' said Gerald Curtis, a professor of Japanese politics at Columbia University. ''This is a country that has great potential. What it has lacked is leadership, and politicians who can paint a picture of what a bright future looks like.''
 The Democrats claim they can paint just such a picture. But they face an uphill battle. 
 Reining in the bureaucracy means taking on an elite group of top achievers in Japan that actually writes laws and has served as a permanent government -- even though it has come under fire for failing to combat the long downturn. Politicians' past efforts to wrest control from bureaucrats have usually failed, in part because they have traditionally been looked down upon as self-interested and corrupt.
 A result is a shortage of strong, charismatic political leaders who could make a case for change, in either party. 
 Only about a half-dozen Democratic lawmakers have ever held top government posts, and most of those defected from the Liberal Democrats. That includes the party leader, Yukio Hatoyama, 62, a Stanford-trained engineer who served as deputy cabinet secretary in the only other non-Liberal Democratic government, which fell apart in 1994 after 11 months in office. 
 Mr. Hatoyama, who is likely to become prime minister if his party wins, is seen as a consensus builder who will work to maintain party unity and avoid a strong personal imprint on its policies. Mr. Okada, a popular 56-year-old former Trade Ministry bureaucrat known for his no-nonsense style, represents a younger generation of Democratic lawmakers less tainted by association with the governing party. 
 ''They're going to send hundreds of inexperienced lawmakers to try to lord it over these entrenched bureaucrats,'' said Atsuo Ito, an independent political analyst who wrote a book on the Democratic Party. ''The bureaucracy survived World War II, and it survived the postwar American occupation. It will survive Mr. Hatoyama.''
 Still, the Democrats have been trying to seize the moment by tapping Japan's simmering discontent. The party has tried to position itself as the choice for voters fed up with rising social inequalities, stagnating wages and other changes for which many blame economic globalization. It recently issued a manifesto pledging new spending of $177 billion a year. While economists have characterized the Democrats as slightly left of center, and the incumbents as slightly to the right, both parties are promising new social spending to win key blocs like farmers, who were alienated by the small-government reforms of former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.
 Another criticism leveled at the Democrats is their lack of experience, particularly in national security and diplomacy. That has drawn the attention of the United States -- last month, an American assistant secretary of state met party officials to learn more about the Democrats' foreign policy stance, which calls for a greater focus on Asia while building an ''equal partnership'' with Washington, Japan's traditional protector. 
 Mr. Okada said in his interview that a Democratic government would consider ending the Japanese Navy's refueling of American and allied warships in the Indian Ocean, which has been unpopular here. He said it would also seek to revise the agreement governing the legal status of the some 50,000 United States service members in Japan to reduce friction with Japanese communities near American bases. 
 He stressed that the American presence would remain largely unchanged, as would the overall relationship with Washington. 
 ''There is no need to worry about Japan-American relations,'' Mr. Okada said.
 Indeed, the party seems to be going to great pains to stress that it would be realistic if given a chance to rule. But it has not helped its cause by seeming to flip-flop on central issues, such as a promise in the manifesto to sign a free-trade deal with the United States that the party later watered down after criticism by farmers.
 The Democrats say that they have practiced for rule by setting up their own ''shadow cabinets'' and using their shared control of Parliament's upper house with other opposition parties to write and submit their own legislation. 
 Some predict that the Democrats' biggest challenge will be simply trying to hold together despite its deep ideological cleavages. This is what doomed the last non-Liberal Democratic government. At the time, too, Japan had suffered through only a few years of economic stagnation, not the decade of decline that is helping drive voters away from the governing party. 
 ''The opposition wasn't ready then, mentally or in organization,'' said Masayoshi Takemura, chief cabinet secretary in that government. ''They've had 15 years to get their act together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yukio Hatoyama is the leader of the opposition Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIRO KOMAE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 Katsuya Okada, the Democrat Party's secretary general, has helped tap into voters' discontent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YULI WEEKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSERVATISM (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); AGING TRENDS (62%); AGING (50%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



677 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Real Choice? It's Off Limits In Health Bills

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Consider the following health insurance plan.
 It refuses to pay for certain medical care and then doesn't offer a clear explanation. It does pay for unhelpful care that ends up raising premiums. Its customer service can be hard to reach or unhelpful. And the people who are covered by this insurer have no choice but to remain with it -- or, at best, to choose from one or two other insurers that are about as bad.
 In all likelihood, I have just described your insurance plan. 
 Health insurers often act like monopolies -- like a cable company or the Department of Motor Vehicles -- because they resemble monopolies. Consumers, instead of being able to choose freely among insurers, are restricted to the plans their employer offers. So insurers are spared the rigors of true competition, and they end up with high costs and spotty service. 
 Americans give lower marks to their health insurer than they do to their life insurer, their auto insurer or their bank, according to the American Customer Satisfaction Index. Even the Postal Service gets better marks. (Cable companies, however, get worse ones.) No wonder President Obama's favorite villain is health insurers.
 You might think, then, that a central goal of health reform would be to offer people more choice. But it isn't. 
 Real choice is not part of the bills moving through the Democratic-led Congress; even if the much-debated government-run insurance plan was created, it would not be available to most people who already have coverage. Republicans, meanwhile, have shown no interest in making insurance choice part of a compromise they could accept. Both parties are protecting the insurers. 
 That's a reflection of the thorny politics of health care. On one hand, big interest groups are lobbying hard to keep some form of the status quo. Insurers don't want people to have more choice. Neither do employers and labor unions, which now control huge piles of money spent on health care. Nor do hospitals and drug makers, which benefit from all the waste now in the system. 
 On the other hand, the people who stand to benefit most from having more choice -- all of us -- are not agitating for change, because the costs of the system are hidden from us. A typical household spends $15,000 each year on health care. But most of it comes in the form of taxes or employer deductions from paychecks, which means insurance can seem practically free. 
 As a result, people may not like their insurer, but they don't hate it, either. If anything, they are more anxious about losing their insurance than they are eager to be given more choice. And that anxiety has driven the White House's decision to pursue a fairly conservative form of health reform.
 To be clear, the versions of reform now floating around Congress would do a lot of good. They would make it far easier for people without an employer plan to get health insurance and would make some modest attempts to nudge the health system away from its perverse fee-for-service model.
 Yet they would not improve most people's health care anytime soon. Giving people more control over their own care would. White House advisers, however, decided against that option long ago. They worried that opening up the insurance market would destabilize employer-provided insurance and make Mr. Obama's plan vulnerable to the same criticism that undid Bill Clinton's: that it was too radical.
 They may well have been right. Then again, given all the flak they have been taking anyway, they may have been wrong. 
 The best-known proposal for giving people more choice is the Wyden-Bennett bill, named for Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, and Robert Bennett, a Utah Republican, who introduced it in the Senate in 2007. There are other broadly similar versions of the idea, too. One comes from Victor Fuchs, a Stanford professor sometimes called the dean of health economists, and Ezekiel Emanuel, an oncologist and an Obama health-policy adviser.
 In the simplest version, families would receive a voucher worth as much as their employer spends on their health insurance. They would then buy an insurance plan on an ''exchange'' where insurers would compete for their business. The government would regulate this exchange. Insurers would be required to offer basic benefits, and insurers that attracted a sicker group of patients would be subsidized by those that attracted a healthier group.
 The immediate advantage would be that people could choose a plan that fit their own preferences, rather than having to accept a plan chosen by human resources. You would be able to carry your plan from one job to the next -- or hold onto it if you found yourself unemployed. You would never have to switch doctors because your employer switched insurance plans. 
 The longer-term advantage would be that health insurance would become fully subject to the brutal and wonderful forces of the market. Insurers that offered better plans -- plans that drew on places like the Mayo Clinic to offer good, lower-cost care -- would win more customers. 
 ''That's the way the rest of the economy works,'' says William Lewis, former director of the McKinsey Global Institute. 
 Politically, though, the full voucher plan is still too radical, which is why the Wyden-Bennett bill has attracted support from only 13 other senators -- four Republicans, eight Democrats and Joe Lieberman. So Mr. Wyden has come up with a narrower version. 
 It expands the exchange that Democratic leaders are already planning to create for the uninsured so that many more people would be allowed to use it. (If the exchange were limited to the uninsured, any government-run insurance plan, a crucial part of reform for many liberals, would not be available to most people.) But Mr. Wyden isn't having much luck with this idea, either. The support for the employer-based system is simply too strong.
 And the defenders of the employer system have some legitimate arguments. An insurance exchange may end up having some of the same pitfalls as 401(k) plans, in which some workers make poor choices. Having employers navigate the complex landscape of insurance, the defenders say, may be better for employees.
 Here's what I would ask those defenders, however: Given all the problems with health care -- the high costs and decidedly mixed results -- how comfortable are you defending the status quo? Why force people into a system you think is better for them? 
 If people were instead allowed to choose, all but a small percentage might indeed stick with their employer plan. In that case, a Wyden-like proposal wouldn't amount to much. It certainly would not destabilize the employer-provided insurance system.
 Then again, if lots of families did switch to a plan on the exchange, the impact would be quite different. With fewer employees signing up for on-the-job insurance, companies might shrink their benefits departments. The number of companies offering insurance would keep dropping. The employer insurance system could begin to crumble. 
 But wouldn't that be precisely the fate that the system deserved?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In 2007, Senators Ron Wyden, left, and Robert F. Bennett introduced a bill that would have created an open marketplace for health care insurance. The effort was backed by only 13 other senators. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (72%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); POSTAL SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: ROBERT BENNETT (54%); RON WYDEN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



678 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Lower Costs Help Profit At Burger King

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Burger King Holdingsreported a higher quarterly profit Tuesday, helped by lower costs for food and paper.
 Burger King, the world's second-largest hamburger chain after McDonald's, said it expected softer sales at existing restaurants in the first half, with a better second half if consumer sentiment improves. 
 Executives said the dollar-menu's double cheeseburger, which competes with McDonald's Dollar Menu double burger with one cheese slice, has helped improve restaurant traffic in the United States.
 The company declined to forecast earnings for the current fiscal year, citing continuing economic uncertainty.
 The company's net income was $58.9 million, or 43 cents a share, in the fourth quarter that ended on June 30, compared with $50.6 million, or 37 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Analysts on average had forecast earnings of 33 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates. Earnings were helped by 7 cents a share as the dissolution of some foreign entities helped lower the company's tax rate.
 Revenue slid 2.4 percent to $629.9 million, from $645.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
 Worldwide, sales at Burger King restaurants open at least one year fell 2.4 percent.
 Fast-food chains generally have outperformed rivals during the downturn. Burger King has been extending business hours, replacing computerized registers, sprucing up older outlets and introducing premium sandwiches. This month, McDonald's reported a second-quarter profit that matched analyst estimates.
 For McDonald's, June sales at established restaurants in the United States disappointed investors, but its shares rose after it reported that global July same-store sales were aided by improvements in Britain, France and the United States.
 Burger King's shares rose $1.09 to $18.75.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (95%); MCDONALD'S CORP (92%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (95%); MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (95%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



679 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Movie Fund Set to Close Housing Unit For the Aged

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
In a favorite movie plotline, victimized small fry strike back against the operators of a corrupt and heartless system. As in ''Erin Brockovich.''
 Usually, though, Hollywood isn't cast as the villain.
 On Tuesday some 78 residents of a long-term-care unit and associated hospital in the San Fernando Valley -- an operation that has tended generations of elderly movie stars, character actors, directors, crew members and others, along with their dependents -- received word from the site's operator, the Motion Picture and Television Fund, that it would go ahead with plans to close the two by year's end. The residents can now expect what amounts to an eviction notice in coming weeks if they do not accept the fund's help in finding a new home or otherwise relocate.
 The notification, which comes after months of turmoil over the proposed closing, is expected to result in a lawsuit by residents and others against both the fund and the Hollywood producers, executives and union leaders on one or more of its governing boards. 
 Mediation between the sides failed in July. In good cinematic style, the fight pits big guys against some very fragile little ones. 
 ''When they're put out, they die,'' said Patricia Alexander, whose husband, Hal, an 86-year-old former actor and television director, is a resident. 
 Asked where her husband, whose credits include ''The Flip Wilson Show,'' would go if the unit were closed, Ms. Alexander said: ''We're not closing. I haven't looked. Don't ask me that.''
 But the dispute also points to deep and perplexing changes in care for the old.
 ''We're on the precipice of a transformational era around aging services,'' said Larry Minnix, president of the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging. Mr. Minnix said rising costs, diminishing support and a growing tendency among the elderly to remain at home as long as possible were eliminating relatively small hospital-residential facilities like that operated by the fund.
 Apparently, the courts may now have to decide whether a charity whose various boards include the likes of Jeffrey Katzenberg of DreamWorks Animation, Jim Gianopulos of 20th Century Fox, Jay D. Roth of the Directors Guild of America, the filmmaker Nora Ephron, the investor David Geffen and Warren Beatty is stepping on Hollywood's needy or simply dealing with health care's new reality. 
 The letters and anticipated lawsuit were the most serious crisis to date in a melodrama that has been playing out on Web sites and in news reports here since the fund -- long regarded as Hollywood's favorite charity -- first said it could not afford to operate the 150-bed hospital and care center without endangering its other assisted-living and health care operations. Those serve about 60,000 people.
 According to Dr. David Tillman, the fund's chief executive, more than 20 residents have accepted help in finding beds elsewhere, including at the nearby Los Angeles Jewish Home and a center in Portland, Ore., to which the fund moved a resident at its own expense.
 More drama lies ahead: Among the lawyers who have been working with the residents and their families is Thomas V. Girardi, a litigator on whom a character played by Peter Coyote in ''Erin Brockovich,'' about a small town's fight against pollution by the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, was loosely modeled. The Girardi & Keese firm, which has its own weekly radio show here, ''Champions of Justice,'' bills itself as a specialist in ''passionate litigation with corporate giants.''
 Legal action may help sort through claims that have turned the dispute into a crucible for debate about the sustainability of premium care for an aging population and about whether Hollywood's wealthiest power brokers are turning their backs on their own during hard economic times.
 The fund's initial decision to close the unit -- once a refuge for aging stars like Hattie McDaniel, who had an Oscar from ''Gone With the Wind'' -- followed a report by the Camden Group, a consulting concern that in January said the residential unit and hospital were dragging the fund toward bankruptcy.
 According to Camden, high labor costs, stagnant or declining reimbursements from state and federal health care programs, sharply reduced investment income and declining philanthropic support resulted in a $24 million deficit in 2008. A projected shortfall averaging about $16 million over the next five years, the group said, threatens to exhaust the fund's net investment reserves of about $68 million by 2013.
 About half of a projected operating deficit of $23 million annually -- only some of which is expected to be made up by donations and investments -- was attributed to the long-term-care unit, making it a prime target for a cutback.
 But public financial statements through 2007 actually showed growth in net assets, leading to furious criticism from residents and commentators. Those objecting were particularly galled by the disclosure that Dr. Tillman received a pay increase of about 40 percent from 2005 to 2007, raising his compensation to about $600,000 at a time when the fund's finances were supposedly deteriorating.
 Marty Katz, a partner with Mercer Consulting, which advised the fund regarding Dr. Tillman's pay, said the compensation figure -- which combined salary with performance-linked bonus payments -- was slightly below the median for comparable executives when the bonuses were excluded and slightly above the median when they were counted.
 By last year, however, the pain was visible in the fund's audited financial statement: in 2008 net assets, hurt by investment losses, declined by 26 percent, to about $168.8 million.
 Reviewing various proposals under consideration in the national health care reform debate, the fund's advisers concluded that hospital reimbursements were likely to shrink. ''Health care reform does not come and save the day for us,'' said Steve Valentine, the Camden's Group's president.
 ''New management'' is the cure recommended by Nancy Biederman, whose mother-in-law, Jane Biederman, has been a resident for nine years, and whose mother, the television writer Irma Kalish, served on two of the fund's boards before resigning this year. Ms. Biederman said she believed the fund's reported financial crunch was a ''created crisis,'' intended to help Dr. Tillman, who formerly ran the organization's clinics, toward an expansion of clinical care. 
 But, said Bertram Fields, a well-known Hollywood lawyer who has been representing the board members pro bono, some of the more volatile claims in the debate are rapidly damaging the fund's ability to help anyone at all. ''They're defaming the staff,'' he said.
 An inevitable argument has held that Hollywood's rich and famous could simply give a little more. 
 The actress Diane Ladd, quoted on an anti-closing Web site, savingthelivesofourown.org, as reprimanding the industry's wealthy for permitting the shutdown, said on Monday that she and a handful of allies were scratching for a solution on their own.
 ''I'm crying over those people in that nursing home,'' said Ms. Ladd, who is joining Ed Asner, Elliott Gould and others to host a fund-raiser this weekend. Proceeds are intended both for the Membership First faction of the Screen Writers Guild and for assistance to the soon-to-be-displaced residents -- but not for the once-golden fund.
 ''This is a tragedy in our time,'' Ms. Ladd said. ''My God, it's been there since Mary Pickford.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Residents of the Motion Picture and Television Fund's long-term-care unit, part of the hospital above and below, have been notified that they need to find new homes.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); EVICTION (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); CHARITIES (75%); ANIMATION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); LITIGATION (72%); AGING (71%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (71%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND (83%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (58%); DAVID GEFFEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



680 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Food Prices Likely To Start Ticking Up

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Prices for beef, milk, eggs and some other grocery items have been dropping for several months, providing relief for consumers who suffered through the steep increases of a year ago. But prices are likely to start edging upward again as the economy recovers, according to a new federal report and economic analysts. 
 ''The impact from lower energy prices on grocery store prices has largely been played out, and so we're now looking at grocery store prices to rise modestly through the end of the year,'' said Mark Vitner, a managing director and senior economist at Wells Fargo. 
 The government report, by the Economic Research Service of the Department of Agriculture, said that grocery prices decreased 0.5 percent in July, compared with June. Compared with July 2008, when overall food costs were surging, grocery prices in July were down 0.9 percent. 
 In several food categories, prices dropped sharply. Beef fell 2.3 percent in July, compared with June, the eighth decrease in the last nine months, according to the report. Egg prices were down 2.7 percent from June to July and were 21.3 percent below their level in July a year ago. Milk prices declined 0.4 percent in the month, the 10th decline in the last 11 months, and were 18.4 percent below July 2008.
 The national average price for a gallon of fresh whole milk in July was $2.99, compared with $3.96 in the same month a year earlier, a 25 percent drop, according to federal data.
 Prices for fresh fruit and vegetables were also down markedly compared with their levels a year ago. 
 In contrast, some food prices rose compared with last year, including breakfast cereals, sugar and carbonated drinks. 
 Over all, the Agriculture Department forecast that prices for what it calls ''food at home,'' a category that includes purchases at grocery stores, convenience stores and farmers' markets, will rise 2 to 3 percent this year. Last year, the department said, prices for food at home rose 6.4 percent, the highest jump in nearly two decades.
 ''We do expect some price increases with the recovering economy,'' said Ephraim Leibtag, a senior economist at the Agriculture Department. ''Our numbers here imply there has to be some additional inflation in the next six months to get out of the negatives we're in right now.''
 Bill Lapp, president of Advanced Economic Solutions, a consulting firm that specializes in analysis of food commodity costs, said that even with only a modest gain this year, food inflation was expected to outpace the overall rise in the Consumer Price Index, which he said could be close to zero for the year. 
 Mr. Lapp said that one reason food prices would continue to rise was that commodities like corn continued to trade above historical averages, even though they had come down from the unusually high levels they reached last year. 
 And some of the food categories that have recorded price declines, like beef, pork, poultry and dairy products, will begin to go back up as farmers cull herds and flocks, causing supplies of those products to decline. 
 ''I think that the food inflation wake-up call won't begin, in large measure, until late this year and in 2010,'' Mr. Lapp said. He said, however, that there were already signs of rising prices for chicken and milk. 
 Faith Weiner, senior director of public affairs for Stop & Shop, the supermarket chain, said that shoppers had been snapping up large packages of meat or poultry when they were on sale. 
 ''We think folks are stocking up,'' Ms. Weiner said. ''You might have a special on chicken breasts, a Big Buy packet at a reduced price. People are buying more than they normally would and freezing them because it's a good value.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The dairy aisle at a supermarket in Manhattan. The category could soon reverse price declines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (94%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); BEEF (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MILK (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); AGRICULTURE (88%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (79%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (76%); HOME PRICES (74%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); SOFT DRINKS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (71%); ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



681 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: In Athens, Loft-Style Living

BYLINE: By NIKI KITSANTONIS

 BODY:
ATHENS 
 The blinding white building where Christopher Gongolas and his family have lived for the last three years is only steps from Athens' busy historic center. 
 But a visitor climbing the stairs to the airy, loft-style living room might easily think he has landed in Manhattan. 
 ''We wanted to create a space where we could stretch out, display art and not feel cramped in a city apartment,'' Mr. Gongolas said. 
 The 350-square-meter (3,767-square-foot) apartment sprawls across the first and second floors of the building, which has commercial tenants on the ground floor. But when Mr. Gongolas, 52, and his partner Tatiana Violari stumbled across the place in 2005, it looked much different. 
 ''We saw a 'for rent' sign on the house, walked into a mess of construction and just loved the space,'' Mr. Gongolas said. 
 At the time Mr. Gongolas, a Pittsburgh native of Greek parentage, was renting a large home in a coastal suburb; Ms. Violari, now 47, lived in a small apartment in the upscale Athens district of Kolonaki. But, with a child on the way, they were looking for a roomy place where the whole family could live. They also spend time in Houston, where Mr. Gongolas is an investor in a geothermal technology company, and in Nicosia, Cyprus, where Ms. Violari has a house.
 At the time, the owner was repairing the exterior of the stucco-covered stone-and-concrete structure, which is in the neoclassic style, the architecture based on ancient Greek design that was developed in the 19th and 20th centuries.
 When that work was done, Mr. Gongolas and Ms. Violari sat down with him to discuss transforming the interior into a residential space, which they now rent on a long-term lease. The couple hired their own architect to oversee the installation of a kitchen and bathrooms, and to ensure the owner's architect and workers completed the work properly.
 ''We liked its size but also its location,'' Mr. Gongolas said, standing on the apartment's main terrace, which has a postcard view of the Acropolis from its prime location in Thiseio, a lively district filled with a mix of bohemian cafes and antique shops. 
 ''The layout was ideal because I have big art, big furniture, basically lots of stuff,'' said Mr. Gongolas, who owns an apartment in Houston where he keeps the rest of his acquisitions. The ''stuff'' includes original works by Andy Warhol, the Spanish sculptor Eduardo Chillida and the German artist Rebecca Horn. These share space in the Athens apartment with Mr. Gongolas's own creations -- chiefly abstract paintings and sculptures -- and paintings by his mother, whose contemporary style inspires him.
 Ms. Violari, formerly an appraiser for Sotheby's who now focuses on interior design, is more classically inclined. For example, one of her acquisitions is a Roman-era marble statue of Diana the Huntress, a standout feature in the apartment's living room. 
 Another striking, and recurring, motif are drums; a modern set sits next to a piano but there are dozens more from Africa and Oceania, some hundreds of years old. ''I bought my first drum in the mid-1980s and have since scoured the world looking for the best example of each tribe,'' Mr. Gongolas said. 
 The couple says they were happy with the way the apartment turned out.
 On the first floor is the long, rectangular living space, with a sleek contemporary kitchen and self-contained apartment for the family's nanny.
 The second floor is the master suite, which includes their bedroom, a study and a smaller bedroom for their son Lex, now three. 
 Overall, the large wood-frame windows and four-meter-high (13-foot-high) ceilings increase the sense of space and light in the apartment, something that distinguishes it from the average Athens residence. In Mr. Gongolas' words, it is ''a suburban-size space in a city location.''
 When the renovations were complete in 2006, the couple signed a four-year lease with two, three-year options to renew. The rent was set a 4,000 euros (now $5,645) a month. ''Our portion of the renovation was around 100,000 euros ($141,125),'' Mr. Gongolas said. ''But most of this was amortized into the rent.'' 
 According to Dimitris Voyiatzis of Re/max Prestige, a local real estate agency, the economic crisis has not dampened foreigners' interest in neoclassical properties, but most want renovated properties. ''There is a lot of bureaucracy,' Mr. Voyiatzis said. ''Dealings with local- and town-planning authorities. So people usually want key-in-hand homes.'' 
 Sale prices for a renovated turn-of-the-century neoclassical building in Athens averages 6,000 euros per square meter ($791 per square foot), two or three times as much as an apartment in newer buildings in the area, most of which were built between 1930 and 1960. 
 Monthly rents range from 5,000 euros per square meter for renovated neoclassicals to 2,000 euros per square meter in newer buildings ($660 to $263 per square foot). 
 A long-term lease on the apartment, which has been valued at around 2 million euros ($2.8 million), was ideal, Mr. Gongolas said. Buying the apartment was not an option, he explained, because it would have required them to buy out the commercial tenants and ''the leases are too long.'' 
 ''We have guarantees and we have freedom,'' he said. ''We're quite happy.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); PAINTING (89%); RESTAURANTS (85%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CLASSICS (74%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (50%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); CYPRUS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



682 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: The Dairy Quandary

 BODY:
Milk looks simple enough coming out of the carton. But behind the scenes is a complex system of federal contracts and programs that is now doing a terrible job for dairy farmers in New York and New England. 
 In the past year, the price farmers get paid has dropped some 40 percent, to about $1 a gallon, which can be as much as 40 cents a gallon less than it costs to produce milk. Prices have dropped for consumers too, to a little over $3 for a gallon. 
 Recently, the Department of Agriculture announced that it would raise price support levels to help farmers through this crisis, a short-term plan that has been applauded by the New York Congressional delegation. 
 We do not like agricultural subsidies or price supports, and we have opposed dairy subsidy programs. They tend to push farmers in the wrong directions, and they blunt the impact of market forces on farms. But there is a special argument to be made in this case.
 Nearly 2.5 million acres in New York state are directly tied to dairy farming. The milk crisis is severe enough to put many farms at risk, raising the potential of abandoned farmland susceptible to development. 
 In the Northeast, with farms different from the huge factory dairies found in much of the West, the cost of milk is a land-use question. Farmers here still run relatively small herds, and they raise their own feed crops. This kind of dairy is a relatively benign use of the land, a means of protecting open space, a form of stewardship that is more acceptable than most others. We think it is right to keep the state's dairy farmers on their farms, even if we are not happy with this way of going about it. 
 Feed costs, the recession, a change in consumers' milk consumption have all played a part in the dairy crisis, which affects organic farms as well as conventional ones. Like most commodity farmers, dairy farmers are essentially locked into the one product they have invested in producing, making it very hard to change quickly. 
 The best rationale for these price supports is not to ensure the status quo. It is to prevent swift, catastrophic change. Change will have to come -- including a revamping, if not a dismantling, of the maze of dairy price supports. But when it does, it will need to protect consumers, farmers and rural communities, and, ultimately, the welfare of farmland itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); DAIRY FARMING (91%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); MILK (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (79%); LIVESTOCK FEED (79%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



683 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Congress's Health Care Numbers Don't Add Up

BYLINE: By JON R. GABEL. 
Jon R. Gabel is a senior fellow at the National Opinion Research Center of the University of Chicago.

DATELINE: Bethesda, Md. 

 BODY:
 FOR competence and integrity, few organizations command more respect in Washington than the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. As health care reform makes its way through Congress, the budget office's assessment of how much various elements might cost may determine the details of legislation, and whether it ultimately passes. But when it comes to forecasting the costs of reform, the budget office's record is suspect. In each of the past three decades, when assessing major changes in Medicare, it has substantially underestimated the savings the changes would bring. 
 In the early 1980s, Congress changed the way Medicare paid hospitals so that payments would no longer be based on costs incurred. Instead, hospitals would receive a predetermined amount per admission, based on the patient's primary medical problem. This encouraged shorter stays, led to fewer diagnostic services and reduced administrative costs. The Congressional Budget Office predicted that, from 1983 to 1986, this change would slow Medicare hospital spending (which had been rising much faster than the rate of inflation) by $10 billion, and that by 1986 total spending would be $60 billion. Actual spending in 1986 was $49 billion. The savings in 1986 alone were as much as three years of estimated savings. 
 Why was the budget office so far off? It had projected that the new payment strategy would increase hospital admissions, because hospitals would maximize their payments by admitting patients who were less severely ill and discharging them quickly. In short, they would make up money with faster turnover. But in the first year of the new payment system, admissions, which had been increasing, actually declined by 3.5 percent. By the third year, they had declined by 15.9 percent. It may be that the declining admissions resulted from a new and stronger program for reviewing admissions. 
 But the Congressional Budget Office was correct in assuming that hospital stays would grow shorter. In the first three years of the payment system, the length of Medicare patients' hospital stays, which had been decreasing by 1 percent to 2 percent a year, fell by 17 percent. The new system also led hospitals, for the first time in decades, to cut their work forces -- by 2.3 percent in the first year alone. 
 In the 1990s, the biggest change in Medicare came with the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, a compromise between a Republican-controlled Congress and a Democratic administration. At the time, the Congressional Budget Office forecast that, from 1998 to 2002, the act would reduce Medicare spending by $112 billion -- a 9.1 percent reduction. Part of that -- $36 billion worth -- would come from paying skilled nursing facilities and home health care services a set fee per patient. But only a tiny fraction of the savings, about $100 million, would come from better monitoring of fraud and abuse on the part of health care providers, according to budget office projections.
 The actual savings turned out to be 50 percent greater in 1998 and 113 percent greater in 1999 than the budget office forecast. Overall spending increased just 1.2 percent from 1998 to 2000, rather than 5.6 percent, as was projected. With increased monitoring for fraud and abuse, hospitals billed less aggressively. Spending for skilled nursing facilities, which had increased by 38 percent per year from 1988 to 1997, did not increase at all in 1998 and 1999. At the same time, spending for home health care services, which had been rising at the rate of 25 percent a year, fell by 52 percent. In fact, Medicare spending fell so much that Congress increased payment levels to hospitals and other providers in 1999 and 2000. 
 In the current decade, the major legislative change to the system was the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003, which added a prescription drug benefit. In assessing how much this new program would cost, the Congressional Budget Office assumed that prices would rise as patients demanded more drugs, and estimated that spending on the drug benefit would be $206 billion.
 Actual spending was nearly 40 percent less than that. Spending on drugs declined from fiscal year 2007 to 2008. Seniors proved more willing to buy lower-cost generic drugs than expected, fewer people participated in the program than expected, and competition held premiums down. Few new blockbuster drugs came on the market, so overall drug prices remained relatively constant, rather than accelerating as predicted. 
 The Congressional Budget Office's consistent forecasting errors arose not from any partisan bias, but from its methods of projection. In analyzing initiatives meant to save money, it helps to be able to refer to similar initiatives in the past that saved money. When there aren't enough good historical examples to go by, the estimated savings based on past experience is essentially considered to be unknown. Too often, ''unknown'' becomes zero -- even though zero is not a logical estimate. 
 The budget office has particular difficulty estimating savings when it considers more than one change at once. For example, last December the office reported that it found no consistent evidence that changes in medical malpractice laws would have a measurable effect on health care spending. It also reported that increased spending on studies comparing the effectiveness of different drugs and medical treatments would yield no net savings for 10 years. Yet if both malpractice reform and comparative effectiveness studies were instituted simultaneously, they might work together to yield substantial savings; doctors would gain more confidence in the effectiveness of less aggressive treatments and, at the same time, could use those treatments with less to fear from lawsuits. 
 The budget office's cautious methods may have unintended consequences in the current health care reform effort. By underestimating the savings that can come from improved Medicare payment procedures and other cost-control initiatives, the budget office leads Congress to think that politically unpopular cost-cutting initiatives will have, at best, only modest effects. This, in turn, forces Congress to believe it can pay for reform only by raising taxes, which then makes reform legislation more difficult to pass. 
 The Congressional Budget Office's integrity is beyond questioning. But the record shows that it has substantially overestimated the cost of health care reform three times out of three. As Congress now works on its greatest push for reform in generations, the budget office needs to revise the methods it uses to make predictions about costs.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MORGAN ELLIOT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOME HEALTH CARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



684 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Dims Prospects Even at Top Law Schools

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH

 BODY:
This fall, law students are competing for half as many openings at big firms as they were last year in what is shaping up to be the most wrenching job search season in over 50 years.
 For students now, the promise of the big law firm career -- and its paychecks -- is slipping through their fingers, forcing them to look at lesser firms in smaller markets as well as opportunities in government or with public interest groups, law school faculty and students say.
 The frenzy has even pushed the nation's top firms, a tradition-bound coterie, into discussing how to reform the recruitment process with an earnestness that would have been unthinkable just years ago.
 Even if the economy is beginning to pick up, the legal profession has been pummeled over the last year, with some firms closing and survivors often asking associates to take leaves of absence. 
 How bad is it? Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, the juggernaut of New York, has slashed its hiring by more than half. For the first time in 136 years, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, a respected Philadelphia firm, has canceled its recruiting entirely. Global firms like DLA Piper and Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe have postponed recruiting for several months to see if the market improves.
 At Yale, students accustomed to being wooed by Big Law's glittering names -- like Baker & McKenzie; Milbank, Tweed, Hadley, & McCloy; and White & Case -- were stunned when those firms canceled interviews in New Haven this month.
 New York University, Georgetown, Northwestern and other top universities confirm that interviews are down by a third to a half compared with a year ago, while lower-ranked schools are suffering more. What is more, when interviews finish in a few weeks, even fewer offers will be extended, said Howard L. Ellin, the chairman of global hiring at Skadden, Arps,because many firms are interviewing students for slots they may not fill.
 After he lost his job as a television reporter two years ago, Derek Fanciullo considered law school, thinking it was a historically sure bet. He took out ''a ferocious amount of debt,'' he said -- $210,000, to be exact -- and enrolled last September in the School of Law at New York University.
 ''It was thought to be this green pasture of stability, a more comfortable life,'' said Mr. Fanciullo, who had heard that 90 percent of N.Y.U. law graduates land jobs at firms, and counted on that to repay his loans. ''It was almost written in stone that you'll end up in a law firm, almost like a birthright.''
 With the cost of law school skyrocketing over the years, the implicit arrangement between students and the most expensive and prestigious schools has only strengthened: the student takes on hefty debt to pay tuition, and the school issues the golden ticket to a job at a high-paying firm -- if that's what the student wants.
 ''Students came in with a certain sense of what the compact was going to be,'' said Irene Dorzback, the assistant dean for career services at the New York University School of Law. But with the system crumbling in recent months, Ms. Dorzback said, ''people are now accepting this notion of a lost year.''
 The timing is worst for the class of 2011, the second-years now looking to get into firms, because of a unique logjam created last year. After the September financial crisis, firms chose to defer their new hires at the price of steeply cutting recruiting this year.
 But students who miss the brief window of opportunity to land an offer this fall may struggle to break into firms once next year's class rises. When Julia Figurelli, a second-year student at the University of Pennsylvania, decided to enter law school a year ago, she expected to find a lucrative law firm job in three years -- if not collecting the $160,000-a-year associate salaries at one of the uppermost partnerships. By the time she obtains her J.D., she says, she will have around $200,000 in debt.
 ''Had I seen where the market was going, I would've gone to a lower-ranked but less expensive public school,'' she said. ''I'm questioning whether law school was the right choice at all.''
 Once aiming to work in Philadelphia, Ms. Figurelli is now hunting for jobs in lower-paying markets, like Pittsburgh and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. ''I'm looking anywhere my competition isn't looking,'' she added.
 School officials are pushing students to look beyond the white-shoe firms, to delve deep into alumni networks and to start mass letter-writing campaigns to potential employers. Like Ms. Figurelli, many students say that for the first time, they are considering and seeking work with government and public-interest groups. 
 The Social Security Administration, for example, said applications for lawyer positions and clerkships had more than doubled this year, to 2,000, from 800. The public-interest job fair at N.Y.U. this year was ''packed to the gills,'' Mr. Fanciullo recalled, but whereas in past years students had seven or eight interviews, some of his classmates this year had zero. ''There's a humongous trickle-down effect,'' he said. ''When the big firms don't hire, everyone looks to government. And when those get filled up, then what happens?''
 It has been a bizarre new reality, especially for elite schools. At Harvard, officials have had to hawk resumes or tell students, quite simply, to buck up. (''Now is not the time for avoidance, denial or panic,'' Mark Weber, the assistant dean of career services, wrote in a March memo to Harvard Law's graduating class.)
 With the system's frailties exposed by the recession, said Mr. Ellin from Skadden, Arps, the time could be ripe for ''massive overhaul.''
 Discussions at industry roundtables and casual talk among officials at leading schools and firms suggest a consensus that interview dates should be pushed back to the spring of the second year, if not the third year. The recent problems have arisen, reform-minded critics say, because the legal industry essentially hires two full years ahead of when employees begin to work. And because young lawyers have to be advanced by lockstep every year, it is difficult to make recruiting changes that are responsive to shocks in business.
 ''There's a long list of issues that need re-examining,'' said Ralph Baxter, the chairman of Orrick. ''The current economic circumstances have helped people see the economic inefficiencies we've been living with.''
 Even lockstep, as sacred a pillar of Big Law as the billable hour, has been undermined by the hiring headaches of the last year, some argue. Orrick and another major firm, Howrey, have introduced innovative programs for associates based on apprenticeships or tiered systems that depart from the traditional ''up or out'' partner-track models. Some industry observers say their moves represent first steps that may ultimately give firms greater flexibility in hiring.
 ''The situation is so dramatic it has freed them up to make changes that they wouldn't otherwise,'' said James G. Leipold, the executive director of the Association for Legal Career Professionals. ''We're going through a period of a surprising amount of experimentation.''
 Not that any of those changes will come into effect soon enough to help the class of 2011.
 On a recent Friday afternoon, Mr. Fanciullo sat at home waiting anxiously for his first callback after four days of interviews. Firms customarily called within 48 hours, he explained.
 ''You almost bank on the big firms hiring you because they're really the only ones who can help you pay your debt,'' he said, his mind already skipping forward to a situation he didn't choose to articulate. ''Quite frankly it would be an absolute disaster. I don't know what I'd do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Derek Fanciullo took out ''a ferocious amount of debt'' for law school, he said, and he has been interviewing for work.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 Mark Weber, an assistant dean for career service at Harvard Law School, talking with a colleague, Katie Thatcher.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); DISMISSALS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); RANKINGS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (93%); ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (91%); MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (91%); MORGAN LEWIS & BOCKIUS LLP (91%); BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (90%); WHITE & CASE LLP (90%); DLA PIPER LLP (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



685 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Housing Perks Up

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
In a convincing sign that the worst housing slump of modern times is coming to an end, prices are starting to rise in nearly all of the nation's large cities.
 The trend, displayed in newly released data for June, is both pronounced and wide-ranging. It is affecting the high-priced coastal cities, with a 3.8 percent jump for the month in San Francisco and a 2.6 percent rise in Boston; the industrial Midwest, with Cleveland prices up 4.2 percent; and even the epicenter of the crash, the Sun Belt, with Phoenix homes up 1.1 percent. These numbers are not seasonally adjusted.
 Eighteen of the 20 cities tracked by Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Index showed improvement in June, up from eight in May, four in April and only one in March. 
 ''When I saw these numbers, I danced a jig,'' said Karl E. Case, a co-developer of the index and an economics professor at Wellesley College. ''It appears that the housing market is stabilizing quicker than people thought it would.'' 
 Further confirmation that the market is recovering came in the Federal Housing Finance Agency's house price index, which was also released Tuesday. It rose 0.5 percent in June after a revised increase of 0.6 percent in May. 
 The government index is based on price information from mortgages acquired by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government's housing finance arms, which means it has fewer high-priced houses than Case-Shiller.
 As recently as six months ago, there was widespread expectation that housing prices, which were already down nearly a third from their peaks, would tumble another 10 percent. That decline would most likely have prompted another round of foreclosures, perhaps helping to delay a recovery in the broader economy.
 Now, said Mr. Case, it is likely such a grim event will be averted. ''Banks will stabilize their balance sheets more quickly. The toxic paper will get written off more quickly,'' he said. ''That's a big, big deal.''
 The news comes on the heels of the National Association of Realtors' report on July sales volume, which showed a 5 percent rise above the pace in July 2008. It was the first year-over-year gain since the market peaked in November 2005.
 The improving real estate market is a combination of many factors: federal and local government assistance for first-time buyers, receding fears that an economic depression is at hand, low interest rates and, above all, cheaper prices than have been seen in many cities for a long time.
 Jessi Havel, a library technician, and Ben Meyer, a university faculty assistant, love San Francisco but thought they were condemned to rent forever. Then friends pointed out that their $2,000 in rent would cover quite a bit of mortgage in a city where prices were back to where they were in mid-2000.
 ''It seemed like this was our one and only chance to buy here,'' said Ms. Havel, 30. So in June they did, paying $456,000 for a cottage in the up-and-coming neighborhood of Mission Terrace. 
 Ms. Havel and Mr. Meyer benefited from a city loan program for first-time buyers. Ilse Cordoni, president of the San Francisco Association of Realtors, said such assistance, whether city, state or federal, was providing crucial support.
 Loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration, originally designed for the working poor, used to be practically unknown in San Francisco, Ms. Cordoni said. Now they are popular, since they require only a 3 percent down payment.
 ''Government help is really helping,'' she said.
 For all the improvement reflected in the new Case-Shiller report, housing prices are still down sharply in comparison to last year's figures. The increases reported on Tuesday show up when June's transaction prices are compared with those of the month before. But when this June is compared with June of 2008, the 20-city composite index is still down 15.4 percent -- an improvement from the 19.1 price decline of last winter. Average home prices are now at the level they were in early 2003.
 The Case-Shiller index, the most closely watched home price index, is usually reported without any seasonal adjustments. Since home-buying traditionally is strongest in the spring, that prompted criticism with last month's report that the long-awaited improvements were less hopeful than they seemed. 
 But even on a seasonally adjusted basis, the index was up 0.7 percent in June. It was the first such increase since May 2006. Instead of 18 cities increasing in June, on a seasonally adjusted basis only 15 did. The two best-performing cities, Cleveland and San Francisco, were up 3.3 percent and 3.1 percent respectively after adjusting. 
 Michael T. Darda, chief economist of MKM Partners, called the June report ''highly encouraging.''
 ''The interaction between falling home prices with high household debt loads was the trigger point for the 2007-8 financial crisis, resulting in both the longest and deepest recession in postwar history,'' he wrote in a research note. ''Now, though, it would appear that the tide is turning.''
 S.& P. also released on Tuesday the national Case-Shiller index, which covers a sample of homes across the country, including rural areas and smaller cities. That index increased 2.9 percent in the second quarter, indicating that the recovery extended beyond the urban centers. It was the first quarter-over-quarter increase in three years.
 In the 20-city index, the New York metro area ranked far back in the pack, increasing only 0.4 percent in June. The two cities that declined were Detroit and Las Vegas, among the most economically troubled places in the country. Las Vegas prices are now down 54.3 percent from their peak. Detroit has fallen 45.3 percent.
 After the back-to-back increases in the 20-city composite for May and June, there is little doubt that the market has picked up. The debate is now shifting to whether the upturn can be sustained. 
 Analysts note that some sales are probably due to a rush to buy in advance of the December expiration of an $8,000 first-time buyers' tax credit. The National Association of Realtors is lobbying to have the credit extended or broadened, but neither is a sure thing.
 ''The tax credit may be shifting sales forward,'' said Patrick Newport, United States economist for IHS Global Insight. ''There are also unintended effects that could hurt the market. It's stimulating construction, but we have too many homes already.''
 Foreclosures are another big unknown. Prices were pushed down last year by an abundance of bank-owned properties hitting the market. This spring, fewer foreclosures have prompted bidding wars. But with unemployment nearing 10 percent, there are probably more foreclosures to come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The skyline looms over a development in Cleveland, where home prices rose 3.3 percent, seasonally adjusted, in June.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 Home prices in Las Vegas are now down 54.3 percent from their peak. Only it and Detroit showed declines for the month of June.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) CHART: Short Versus Long Term: In June, home prices in many cities like Cleveland increased from May, while some others like Las Vegas continued to decrease . . .(Source: Case-Shiller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); FORECLOSURE (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); TOXIC ASSETS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



686 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: One Little-Seen Visitor Is the Talk of the Vineyard

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: OAK BLUFFS, Mass. 

 BODY:
President Obama is now three days into his Martha's Vineyard vacation, a visit that has caused a considerable stir on this tiny island. Yet if it wasn't for the outbreak of commercialism -- T-shirts, cocktails and even dog treats bearing the Obama name -- it would be difficult to know the first family was even here.
 Rumors have flourished, but few people have reported actual sightings. Ronnie Lytle is an exception. The president spoiled her golf game. 
 ''I hope I didn't mess anyone's day up,'' Mr. Obama told Mrs. Lytle, a retiree, who came to Mink Meadows for an 8:20 a.m. tee time Tuesday, but could not play because all the golf carts had been taken by the Obama contingent. (Because of a knee replacement, walking the course was out of the question for her.)
 ''You did, but I don't care,'' she said, recalling her conversation with Mr. Obama for reporters as she waited to watch the motorcade leave. ''It was worth it.''
 Before teeing off, Mr. Obama interrupted his vacation for six minutes to announce his plan to nominate Ben S. Bernanke to a second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 ''I apologize for interrupting the relaxing that I told all of you to do, but I have an important announcement to make concerning the Federal Reserve,'' Mr. Obama told reporters shortly before 9 a.m.
 Less than a half-hour after that statement, Mr. Obama had changed from his suit (no necktie) into khaki slacks and a white polo shirt for the golf course. 
 One member of the president's foursome was Sam Kass, a Chicago chef who has cooked for the Obamas for years and followed the family to the White House. The course was only nine holes, but Mr. Kass did not need to rush back to prepare dinner at Blue Heron Farm, the family's rental house. The Obamas had dinner at a restaurant in Oak Bluffs.
 The president has told friends that to truly relax he prefers golfing with young aides. (Mr. Kass is 29.) But he departed from that pattern Monday when he invited a top campaign contributor, Robert Wolf, president of UBS Investment Bank, to join him for 18 holes. Call it donor maintenance.
 Ambitious Reading List
 Mr. Obama brought five books along for his vacation, a mix of fiction and nonfiction, a dose of urban crime and rural tranquillity, with a dash of global economic thought and American history.
 Bill Burton, the deputy press secretary, disclosed the politically correct book list at a briefing in the gymnasium of the Oak Bluffs School, which has been converted into a White House briefing room for the week:
 ''The Way Home,'' by George Pelecanos. 
 ''Hot, Flat and Crowded,'' by Thomas L. Friedman.
 ''Lush Life,'' by Richard Price.
 ''Plainsong,'' by Kent Haruf.
 ''John Adams,'' by David McCullough.
 Can Mr. Obama possibly plow through all of those books -- ''John Adams'' alone is over 700 pages -- in a week that includes a schedule of golf, tennis and dinners with his family and friends?
 The president is a fast reader, Mr. Burton said, but added that he did not know whether Mr. Obama would the finish the books. (He's been reading one title, ''Hot, Flat and Crowded,'' for more than a year. At a campaign rally last summer, he said the book was on his nightstand.)
 White House Welcomed
 President George W. Bush may have been correct when he said, ''Most Americans don't sit in Martha's Vineyard, swilling white wine.'' 
 But many American presidents have. And residents said they were delighted to be back on the list of vacation destinations for the White House.
 ''It's been a quiet, down summer here until now,'' said Carolyn Minner, 80, who works in the Gossamer Gallery that sits near the driveway to the Obama's rental house in Chilmark. ''We're hoping that he has a nice relaxing time and he comes back often.''
 For the last eight summers, the president and all the essential trappings of the White House relocated to Texas in August. Perhaps not since President Bill Clinton arrived here in 1993 has the Vineyard so eagerly awaited a summer visitor.
 Signs greeting the first family were visible across the island's winding two-lane highways, which have names like Lobsterville Lane, Snail Road and Meeting House Road. A poster in the window at Vineyard Vines, the preppy nautical store in Edgartown, declared, ''Whalecome First Family.'' 
 A more practical welcome was hanging a mile from the Obamas' house on a secluded, wooded stretch of property.
 ''Welcome Sasha, Malia, Barack and Michelle Obama,'' said the message on a handwritten sign posted by a mailbox. ''Be sure to check for tics.'' 
 Ticks -- particularly deer ticks -- are plentiful on the island.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As the president golfed on Tuesday, Secret Service agents followed. The greatest signs of his presence on the island have been on souvenirs and T-shirts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Obama stopped to sign autographs Tuesday before a round of golf. His game interrupted a retiree's outing, but, she said, ''it was worth it.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MCKAIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOLF (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RESTAURANTS (67%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (60%); HISTORY (50%)

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (62%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (62%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



687 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: In Revision, a 10-Year Deficit of $9 Trillion Is Forecast

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The nation's fiscal outlook is even bleaker than the government forecast earlier this year because the recession turned out to be deeper than widely expected, the budget offices of the White House and Congress agreed in separate updates on Tuesday.
 The Obama administration's Office of Management and Budgetraised its 10-year tally of deficits expected through 2019 to $9.05 trillion, nearly $2 trillion more than it projected in February. That would represent 5.1 percent of the economy's estimated gross domestic product for the decade, a higher level than is generally considered healthy. 
 The Congressional Budget Office, which unlike the administration did not account for the president's policy proposals in its latest report, increased its projection of deficits over the next decade. Absent any changes in law, it said the deficit would rise to $7.1 trillion, from $4.4 trillion in March.
 The C.B.O. did analyze the president's budget in June and concluded his proposed tax cuts and spending would push deficits through 2019 above $9 trillion. While the administration now agrees with that figure, technical data in the new C.B.O. report suggests that if it were to review the Obama budget now, it would project deficits through 2019 above $10 trillion, analysts speculated. 
 Anticipating that the deficit figures will stoke the debate over the costs of Mr. Obama's effort to overhaul health care, the administration was quick to say that much of the projected deficit was a legacy of the Bush administration and that the Obama administration was committed to restoring budget discipline when the economy recovers.
 ''Over all, it underscores the dire fiscal situation that we inherited and the need for serious steps to put our nation back on a sustainable fiscal path,'' Peter R. Orszag, the president's budget director, wrote on his agency's Web site.
 As the president has argued before, Mr. Orszag said that rising deficits make an overhaul of the health care system essential, because the government's ballooning costs for Medicare and Medicaid are ''the key driver of our long-term deficits.''
 Congressional Democrats echoed that argument in statements reacting to the budget reports. But Republicans concluded otherwise. 
 ''While the U.S. health care system does need to be reformed, we cannot ignore the fiscal realities of our situation,'' Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, said in a statement. ''We must proceed with extreme caution before putting in place a huge and costly new program that will threaten our economy and the future of our children,'' he added.
 The budget updates from the White House and Congress, required each summer by law, incorporate economic data from last winter that turned out to be worse than either public or private forecasters expected as the year began, and also reflect the costs since then of spending and tax cuts to stimulate the economy and bail out the financial, auto and housing sectors.
 Amid signs that the downturn has hit bottom and a slow recovery was under way, one lagging indicator troubles Democrats. The administration now projects that while the economy will return to growth later this year, though more slowly than it forecast in February, the unemployment rate will top 10 percent before employers start rehiring. That would be up from 9.4 percent in July, and a sharp jump from the 8 percent that the administration forecast earlier.
 The relative good news was that the administration and Congress's budget office reduced their projected deficits for the current fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.
 Each agency now says that the fiscal 2009 deficit will reach $1.6 trillion, or 11.2 percent of G.D.P., the highest level since World War II. Previously the administration projected $1.8 trillion, or nearly 13 percent of G.D.P.; the Congressional office had projected $1.7 trillion.
 The reduction for just this year is largely because of lower-than-expected costs for rescuing financial institutions and because some banks repaid money from the $700 billion bailout program that began in the last months of the Bush administration. 
 When Mr. Obama took office, his budget office projected it had inherited a deficit for 2009 of $1.3 trillion; the C.B.O. estimated $1.2 trillion.
 Since then, the administration and Democratic-controlled Congress have enacted a $787 billion stimulus package, though less than half of that will be disbursed this fiscal year, as well as supplemental spending for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and bailouts for two automakers. 
 Also, the recession has reduced anticipated revenue from taxpayers, and increased spending for safety-net programs like jobless benefits and food stamps.
 The budget reports underscored another factor that increasingly is driving up deficits: the cost of interest on the expanding federal debt, which is the accumulation of all annual deficits. The debt, which was 33 percent of the G.D.P. when the decade began, would reach 68 percent by 2019.
 The House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said in a statement, ''the Democrats' out-of-control spending binge is burying our children and grandchildren under a mountain of unsustainable debt.'' 
 Administration officials countered that they were restoring pay-as-you-go budget rules that Republicans had shelved when they were in power, though Democrats would exempt major items. Democrats also said that while they are trying to offset the costs of health care changes, Republicans in the Bush years cut taxes, waged wars and created a Medicare drug benefit, all by deficit financing.
 ''It's fairly clear that responsibility for these numbers doesn't lie with Barack Obama but with the policies that were in place before him,'' said Stan Collender, a longtime budget analyst at the consulting firm Qorvis Communications. He said either Mr. Bush or Senator John McCain, Mr. Obama's Republican rival in 2008, would have increased the deficit comparably this year with more war and stimulus spending.
 But, he added, ''regardless of who's to blame, it's undeniably Barack Obama's problem now.''
 The administration, with backing from many economists, has said it would not try to cut the short-term deficits until the economy recovers enough that businesses and consumers resume their spending and investment. But Mr. Orszag said the administration, in next year's budget, would propose savings other than in health care to arrest long-term deficits.
 His office's budget report also said that ''the president is committed to addressing the shortfall in the Social Security system.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Orszag, the president's budget director, says the nation inherited a dire situation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: NEW DEFICIT ESTIMATES: White House officials now predict the government's deficit over the next decade will be $9 trillion, $2 trillion higher than their May estimate. The Congressional Budget Office, which takes into account only policies already in place, also released new estimates on Tuesday. (Sources: Office of Management and Budget
 Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MEDICAID (73%); TAX LAW (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PETER ORSZAG (78%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



688 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Waxman Takes On Drug Makers Over Medicare

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON

 BODY:
As the health care debate focuses on whether cost cuts are looming in Medicare coverage, Representative Henry A. Waxman is on a crusade to save Medicare billions of dollars -- in a way that he says would end up helping the elderly. 
 That is because the money would come from the drug industry, which is why Mr. Waxman may have a fight on his hands. 
 Drug makers contend they have already worked out a 10-year, $80 billion cost-savings deal with the White House and crucial Senate gatekeepers on the trillion-dollar health care overhaul. The industry says that trying to add Mr. Waxman's provision could scuttle that agreement. 
 ''You not only break the deal, but you break the bank for us,'' said Billy Tauzin, chief executive of the drug industry's trade group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, known as PhRMA. 
 At issue is a multibillion-dollar ''windfall'' that Mr. Waxman contends the drug industry received when drug benefits were added to Medicare coverage in 2006. Mr. Waxman, Democrat of California, is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and is central to the House's legislative efforts on health care. 
 When drug coverage was added to Medicare, under the so-called Part D program, about 6.4 million low-income elderly or disabled people were shifted into the program from the government's Medicaid program for the poor. Such people, entitled to Medicare and Medicaid, are known as dual eligibles in health policy-speak.
 Before that shift, because Medicaid administrators have the legal authority to negotiate prices with drug makers, those 6.4 million dual eligibles had their drugs paid for by the government at deeply discounted prices. 
 But under the Part D program, by law, Medicare is not allowed to negotiate drug prices. And so, when the dual eligibles were added to Medicare's drug rolls, the government suddenly started paying higher prices for their drugs -- 30 percent higher, on average, according to an analysis by Mr. Waxman's committee.
 As a result, Mr. Waxman contends, the drug industry got a $3.7 billion windfall in the first two years of the Medicare drug program, and he says pharmaceutical makers continue to reap more from Medicaid-eligible patients in the program than the companies would get if their drugs were provided through Medicaid. 
 ''We want it back,'' Mr. Waxman said in an recent interview. ''We want to make sure the windfall for the drug companies does not continue, and we want to recover the money that has been a windfall.'' 
 Dual eligibles now total some eight million people -- or about one-fourth of Medicare drug beneficiaries. Mr. Waxman wants the drug makers to pay rebates on medicines sold to the dual eligibles, to put the prices more in line with what Medicaid pays for the same drugs. 
 The drug industry, says it has not received a windfall, and that Mr. Waxman's analysis oversimplifies the issue. 
 It says that the government and patients in the Medicare Part D drug program can save more money in other ways that the industry has already worked out in the $80 billion agreement with the White House. That deal, which PhRMA says specifically precludes rebates for the dual eligibles, reportedly has the backing of Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which is a leader in the Senate's health care effort. 
 Some details of the deal, including what political assurances the industry received for its offer, have not been made public by the White House, or Mr. Baucus. But PhRMA has agreed to support health care reform with a $150 million television advertising campaign -- as long as the deal is what the industry says it agreed to. 
 Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a nonpartisan group in Washington that works for affordable health care, said Mr. Waxman faced ''an uphill climb'' on the issue. Even if the House legislation includes the rebates Mr. Waxman seeks, Mr. Pollack predicted, the Senate will not go along.
 But Mr. Waxman vowed to fight for the rebate plan in a conference committee with the Senate. 
 In 2003, when the Part D drug program was being planned as part of a Congressional overhaul of Medicare, Republicans insisted that the program be administered by private insurers and that the government be precluded from negotiating prices.
 Stephen Schondelmeyer, a professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota who had conducted research for the government and industry, said that in 2003 many in Congress argued that private insurers would be more than capable of negotiating discounts with drug makers.
 ''That didn't pan out,'' Dr. Schondelmeyer said. The dozens of insurers involved, competing among themselves, simply do not have the government's negotiating clout. While Medicaid is able to obtain rebates of up to 35 percent from drug makers, the Medicare drug rebates have been less than 15 percent, he said. 
 Dr. Schondelmeyer said it would be easy for the government to impose rebates on the dual eligible part of Medicare. But groups that promote free enterprise oppose that idea. 
 ''This is best described not as a rebate but as a price control,'' said Michael F. Cannon, director of health policy studies at the Cato Institute, a research group. 
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has studied the dual eligibles. A report it issued in mid-July showed that the federal government could save a net $30 billion over 10 years if drug prices were set at Medicaid levels for dual eligibles. 
 It was partly to head off such talk that PhRMA made an offer to the White House. As part of its $80 billion savings plan, it would give all people in the Medicare drug program a 50 percent discount if they entered an annual no man's land in the coverage known as the doughnut hole. 
 The doughnut hole is a coverage gap that occurs after the person's drug costs for the year reach $2,700; the coverage does not resume until the person's costs exceed $6,154 for the year.
 While in the hole, Medicare beneficiaries must pay for their own drugs or buy supplemental insurance. The PhRMA deal would give people drugs at half price during the doughnut hole period. PhRMA estimates this part of its proposal would save Medicare patients $34 billion over 10 years.
 According to Ken Johnson, a PhRMA vice president, the industry placed a condition on its offer: the White House and Mr. Baucus would not support Mr. Waxman's proposal for rebates.
 ''Over the long run,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''we felt seniors would be better served by reducing out-of-pocket costs in the doughnut hole, as opposed to a rebate in the so-called dual eligibles.''
 He said that a study paid for by PhRMA had concluded that imposing rebates to benefit the low-income dual eligibles would make drug coverage 25 percent to 50 percent more expensive for the rest of the Medicare population. 
 But Mr. Waxman is not convinced by PhRMA's arguments -- or its agreement with the White House and Mr. Baucus.
 ''We don't have any deal with them, and the whole enterprise of doing health insurance for all Americans isn't to make the drug companies happy, or wealthier,'' Mr. Waxman said. ''They're going to make a lot of money when we insure all Americans. There's no argument for them to get a windfall.''
 THE WORK-UP: Medicare Spending: Articles in this series are analyzing the economic and financial issues at the heart of the health care debate in Washington. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about Representative Henry A. Waxman's effort to force drug makers to give back money he says was ''a windfall'' when drug benefits were added to Medicare coverage misstated the size of the drug discounts the federal-state Medicaid program receives. It receives an average discount of 35 percent -- not discounts of ''up to 35 percent.'' The article also referred imprecisely to Medicaid administrators who have the legal authority to negotiate discounts with drug makers. State Medicaid officials -- not all administrators -- can seek the discounts. (Their federal counterparts are bound by a set formula.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Henry A. Waxman's plan to save Medicare billions could cost the drug industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); DRUG PRICES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: HENRY WAXMAN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



689 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Still Chafing After 40 Years, Qaddafi Baffles the West With His Behavior

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Once the mad dog of the Middle East, as Ronald Reagan called him, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, has focused on shedding his outlaw status: He heads the African Union, attended a Group of 8 economic conference in Rome and is courted by Western powers hungry for Libyan oil.
 But if the world thought the colonel had changed his views after 40 years in power, he proved otherwise with the hero's welcome he gave Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, the only person convicted in the Lockerbie bombing of 1988.
 ''He likes to rub it in to the West that he was vindicated, that he's becoming an internationally recognized figure again,'' said Dirk J. Vandewalle, associate professor of government at Dartmouth College. 
 It was signature Colonel Qaddafi, extracting a concession from Western powers, offering thanks, then appearing to mock them for caving in. On his visit to Paris in 2007, he lectured the French on human rights. In Rome this year, he pinned a photograph to his chest of the 1931 arrest by Italian troops of the Libyan guerrilla leader Omar al-Mokhtar, whom the Italians later hanged. 
 But this time, Colonel Qaddafi appears to have overreached (even if Mr. Megrahi's homecoming, indeed his entire case, may not be as straightforward as many perceive). 
 Instead of enhancing Colonel Qaddafi's standing, as he had hoped, Mr. Megrahi's release has highlighted inherent conflicts in his re-engagement with the outside world, experts said. Colonel Qaddafi's revolutionary ideology still clashes with Western expectations. He has failed to use his nation's opening to make political and economic improvements at home. There may even be a degree of naivete on the part of Colonel Qaddafi, who has expressed shock at the full-throated response from Washington and London. 
 Indeed, experts said, officials in Libya believed they had heeded requests to keep the celebrations relatively low-key. After all, Colonel Qaddafi did not himself greet Mr. Megrahi at the airport. 
 In that way, this case forces the West and Libya to face up to differences in perceptions that have hung over the courtship since reconciliation began. 
 The West sees the current situation as clear-cut: Libya honoring a convicted terrorist who helped to blow up a jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland. But Libya experts said that it was far more nuanced, explaining in part why Libya acted as it did, and why it was so surprised by the reaction. There are several reasons, the experts said, chief among them that the government never accepted Mr. Megrahi's guilt. 
 ''When Megrahi was found guilty there was an immediate sense in Libya that a great miscarriage of justice had taken place,'' said George Joffe, a lecturer at the Center of International Studies at Cambridge University. ''And even on the day of the sentence, Qaddafi said that he would do everything to reverse it. Right from the beginning they did not accept the sentence.''
 Still, this does not completely explain Colonel Qaddafi's behavior. 
 ''Libya is highly authoritarian, but he still has a domestic audience he needs to appeal to,'' said Dana Moss, a visiting fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''In the aftermath of giving up nukes and re-engaging the U.S. he wants to show he is no puppet of the West and that he made his decisions independently.''
 In the days since Scottish officials released Mr. Megrahi, Colonel Qaddafi's son Saif al Islam el-Qaddafi seemed to go out of his way to incite vitriol aimed at the very people he was thanking -- officials in Scotland. Most damaging was his suggestion that British officials had agreed to release Mr. Megrahi as part of a business deal. 
 Saif al Islam el-Qaddafi, who accompanied Mr. Megrahi home from Scotland, is thought to be engaged in a succession contest with his brother Moatessem-Billah el-Qaddafi. Saif al Islam el-Qaddafi was widely seen as using the Megrahi case to try to burnish his credentials, especially among the old guard who do not trust him. 
 But Libyan officials say his comments were misconstrued, that Libya was simply using any leverage it had, including during trade talks, to free Mr. Megrahi. 
 Perhaps the central element, however, which cannot be overlooked, is Colonel Qaddafi's personal ambition. 
 He gained the international status he craved when he became head of the African Union and he has used his position to promote his top goal -- creation of a United States of Africa with one army, one passport, one currency and one leader. He hoped that bringing Mr. Megrahi home would elevate his status among African leaders.
 From the beginning, it was almost inevitable that this case would end in hostility and recriminations. For those whose relatives died in the 1988 bombing, forcing Libya to pay millions to each family and putting Mr. Megrahi in prison for life amounted to a shred of justice.
 But to Libya, that money was a business deal, a small price for a ticket to re-engage with the West and attract foreign investment. Libya did not admit guilt. It assumed responsibility for ''the actions of its officials.'' The resolution cost Libya about $2.7 billion. The next year Libya's foreign investment reached $8 billion. 
 In the gap of perception over Mr. Megrahi's homecoming, where the West expressed outrage, Colonel Qaddafi saw hypocrisy, experts said. When in 2007 Libya released five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor sentenced to death on charges they had infected children with the virus that causes AIDS, they were greeted by the Bulgarian president and prime minister, the French president's wife and the foreign affairs commissioner of the European Union. 
 Colonel Qaddafi agreed to send them to Bulgaria to serve out prison terms, but they were immediately pardoned by the Bulgarian president.
 ''Why didn't we hear these objections, on the exoneration of this condemned team?'' Colonel Qaddafi asked last week. ''Are we donkeys, but they are humans?''
 His parallel was dismissed in the West, where health officials argued that his charges were fabricated. But Libyans believed that Mr. Megrahi was a political prisoner, and some experts assert that those sentiments are not without some justification.
 ''I remember talking to one of the judges from the panel that convicted him,'' said Mr. Vandewalle, of Dartmouth. ''He said there was enormous pressure put on the court to get a conviction.'' 
 Next Tuesday, Libya will celebrate the 40th anniversary of the coup that brought Colonel Qaddafi to power. Mr. Megrahi may again be on display.
 ''The very concept of anti-imperialism is still at the heart of Qaddafi's discourse,'' Ms. Moss said. ''His ideological prism has not changed. He has to show, or wants to show, that he is not backing down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi greeted Romans in June. Despite improving relations with the West and becoming a regional leader, he still lacks acceptance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HELGREN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BOMBINGS (75%); TERRORISM (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (84%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (58%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



690 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: We Can't Afford to Ignore Myanmar

BYLINE: By JIM WEBB. 
Jim Webb is a Democratic senator from Virginia.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 EIGHT years ago I visited Myanmar as a private citizen, traveling freely in the capital city of Yangon and around the countryside. This lush, breathtakingly beautiful nation was even then showing the strain of its severance from the outside world. I was a guest of an American businessman, and I understood the frustration and disappointment that he and others felt, knowing even then that tighter sanctions would soon drive them out of the country.
 This month I became the first American political leader to visit Myanmar in 10 years, and the first-ever to meet with its reclusive leader, Senior Gen. Than Shwe, in the haunting, empty new capital of Naypyidaw. From there I flew to an even more patched-and-peeled Yangon, where I met with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader and Nobel laureate who remains confined to her home. Among other requests, I asked Than Shwe to free her and allow her to participate in politics. 
 Leaving the country on a military plane with John Yettaw -- an American who had been sentenced to seven years of hard labor for immigration offenses, and whose release I had also requested of Than Shwe -- I was struck again by how badly the Burmese people need outside help. They are so hardened after decades of civil war and political stalemate that only an even-handed interlocutor can lift them out of the calcified intransigence that has damaged their lives and threatened the stability of Southeast Asia.
 For more than 10 years, the United States and the European Union have employed a policy of ever-tightening economic sanctions against Myanmar, in part fueled by the military government's failure to recognize the results of a 1990 election won by Aung San Suu Kyi's party. While the political motivations behind this approach are laudable, the result has been overwhelmingly counterproductive. The ruling regime has become more entrenched and at the same time more isolated. The Burmese people have lost access to the outside world. 
 Sanctions by Western governments have not been matched by other countries, particularly Russia and China. Indeed, they have allowed China to dramatically increase its economic and political influence in Myanmar, furthering a dangerous strategic imbalance in the region.
 According to the nonprofit group EarthRights International, at least 26 Chinese multinational corporations are now involved in more than 62 hydropower, oil, gas and mining projects in Myanmar. This is only the tip of the iceberg. In March, China and Myanmar signed a $2.9-billion agreement for the construction of fuel pipelines that will transport Middle Eastern and African crude oil from Myanmar to China. When completed, Chinese oil tankers will no longer be required to pass through the Straits of Malacca, a time-consuming, strategically vital route where 80 percent of China's imported oil now passes. 
 If Chinese commercial influence in Myanmar continues to grow, a military presence could easily follow. Russia is assisting the Myanmar government on a nuclear research project. None of these projects have improved the daily life of the average citizen of Myanmar, who has almost no contact with the outside world and whose per capita income is among the lowest in Asia. 
 It would be wrong for the United States to lift sanctions on Myanmar purely on the basis of economic self-interest, or if such a decision were seen as a capitulation of our long-held position that Myanmar should abandon its repressive military system in favor of democratic rule. But it would be just as bad for us to fold our arms, turn our heads, and pretend that by failing to do anything about the situation in Myanmar we are somehow helping to solve it. 
 So what can and should be done? 
 First, we must focus on what is possible. The military government in Myanmar has committed itself to elections in 2010, as part of its announced ''seven steps toward democracy.'' Many point out that the Constitution approved last year in a plebiscite is flawed, since it would allow the military to largely continue its domination of the government, and that the approval process itself was questionable. The legislation to put the Constitution into force has yet to be drafted. The National League for Democracy, Aung San Suu Kyi's political party, has not agreed to participate in next year's elections. 
 But there is room for engagement. Many Asian countries -- China among them -- do not even allow opposition parties. The National League for Democracy might consider the advantages of participation as part of a longer-term political strategy. And the United States could invigorate the debate with an offer to help assist the electoral process. The Myanmar government's answer to such an offer would be revealing. 
 Second, the United States needs to develop clearly articulated standards for its relations with the nondemocratic world. Our distinct policies toward different countries amount to a form of situational ethics that does not translate well into clear-headed diplomacy. We must talk to Myanmar's leaders. This does not mean that we should abandon our aspirations for a free and open Burmese society, but that our goal will be achieved only through a different course of action. 
 The United States refused to talk to the Chinese until 1971, more than 20 years after the Communist takeover, and did not resume full diplomatic relations until 1979. And yet China, with whom we seem inextricably tied both as a business partner and a strategic competitor, has no democracy and has never held a national election. 
 The Hanoi government agreed to internationally supervised elections for Vietnam in 1973, as a result of the Paris peace talks; Washington did not raise this as a precondition to furthering relations. As someone who has worked hard to build a bridge between Hanoi and America's strongly anticommunist Vietnamese community, I believe the greatest factor in creating a more open society inside Vietnam was the removal of America's trade embargo in 1994.
 Third, our government leaders should call on China to end its silence about the situation in Myanmar, and to act responsibly, in keeping with its role as an ascending world power. Americans should not hold their collective breaths that China will give up the huge strategic advantage it has gained as a result of our current policies. But such a gesture from our government would hold far more sway in world opinion than has the repeated but predictable condemnation of Myanmar's military government. 
 Finally, with respect to reducing sanctions, we should proceed carefully but immediately. If there is reciprocation from the government of Myanmar in terms of removing the obstacles that now confront us, there would be several ways for our two governments to move forward. We could begin with humanitarian projects. We might also seek cooperation on our long-held desire to recover the remains of World War II airmen at crash sites in the country's north. 
 Our ultimate goal, as it always has been, should be to encourage Myanmar to become a responsible member of the world community, and to end the isolation of its people so that they can live in economic prosperity, under an open political system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); POLITICS (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CIVIL WAR (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); SENTENCING (52%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%); MINES & MINING (50%); BULK SHIPPING (50%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (50%)

PERSON: THAN SHWE (89%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



691 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: French Bankers Accept Restrictions on Bonuses

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH; David Jolly contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France on Tuesday announced steps, agreed to by bankers, to curb excessive compensation in the industry as he pledged to push for tighter international rules at a meeting of global leaders next month.
 ''It's too easy to say we'll do nothing because others aren't,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''France must lead and try to persuade the others.''
 After a meeting with government officials, representatives of leading French banks agreed that bankers would repay part of their bonuses if the performance of the bank, or of a trader's team, deteriorated. Under the agreement, up to two-thirds of bonus payments should be deferred, while a third should be paid in shares of the bank. 
 ''From now on, the trader must wait three years to cash in all of their bonus and if in the two years following, their activity loses money, he will not have his bonus,'' Mr. Sarkozy said.
 The accord allows the French president to place himself in the vanguard of the fight against excessive rewards before a Group of 20 summit meeting in Pittsburgh in late September, where Mr. Sarkozy would like to see a global limit set on bonus payments, and sanctions for transgressors. 
 Taking on excessive pay for bankers offers political dividends for Mr. Sarkozy. Unemployment is close to 10 percent in France, unions are uneasy and public anger is simmering at payouts after taxpayers' money supported banks during the global financial crisis.
 ''Public opinion will not accept that after the crisis that we've seen, things return to the way they were before,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. 
 Also Tuesday, BNP Paribas, the biggest French bank, agreed to pay its investment bankers only 500 million euros, or $716 million in bonuses this year, Mr. Sarkozy said. At the start of the month, the lender said that it had set aside double that amount. 
 Mr. Sarkozy named Michel Camdessus, the former chief of the International Monetary Fund as head of a new commission to study bonuses at banks receiving government aid. 
 There is little argument now that pay arrangements had previously rewarded short-term thinking. But there appear to be different approaches on how best to tie executives' and traders' interests to long-term performance.
 In April, G-20 leaders called for curbs on bonuses, to include deferring payments and paying employees on the performance of their banks as a whole. They proposed sanctions where bonuses encouraged excessively risky lending. 
 But France and Germany, which has also recently announce steps to curb bonuses, fear that regulators in the United States and Britain are taking a lighter approach. They worry that their financial sectors will lose talent if there is an easier environment abroad.
 Damien Knight, a principal at MM&K, a London-based pay consulting firm, said firms were struggling to get the best talent after a retrenchment, pushing up rewards.
 BNP's original announcement on bonuses for the year stirred anger in France even though the bank announced an increase in second-quarter profit. French banks, including BNP, received about 20 billion euros, or $29 billion, in state support during the financial crisis.
 The stronger American banks -- like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley -- have repaid government bailout money and are not subject to the government pay restrictions that can be imposed on banks that have not yet repaid the Treasury. 
 Goldman said in July that it was setting aside $11.4 billion for annual bonuses after it posted strong second-quarter profits. Other United States banks like Citigroup have offered bonus guarantees to poach talent, as have groups elsewhere like Nomura of Japan, Credit Suisse of Switzerland and Barclays Capital of Britain.
 Nicolas Bouzou, of the Paris-based financial consulting firm Asteres, said the only way to guarantee meaningful curbs would be to introduce an absolute cap on bonuses or to raise taxes on the payouts. Neither appears likely and both might have implications for other sectors, he said.
 ''It's in the interest of banks to be rather sober when it comes to bonuses this year and to discourage excessive risk-taking,'' he said. ''Anything beyond that gets very problematic.''
 French banks had already agreed to restrain payouts in a code of conduct in February, when they said they would limit bonus guarantees to 12 months, adjust payments to reflect risks, pay bonuses from profit rather than revenue, and defer some variable compensation. 
 German regulators said this month that short-term profits should no longer determine bonuses, which would have to be repaid if deals proved too risky in retrospect. Those rules go into effect on Jan. 1.
 British regulators released a statement this month that backed G-20 guidance but narrowed the number of firms to which the rules would apply. The government has not ruled out legislating on the matter if needed.
 Mr. Knight of MM&K, said that further out, the new regulatory burden on banks to set aside more of their capital in cash, or near cash assets, would lower the profit pool and act as a brake on bonuses. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy with the finance chief, Christine Lagarde, detailed curbs on bonuses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE WOJAZER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONUS PAY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (90%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (90%); BNP (BIT) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (91%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



692 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke's 2nd-Term Challenge Will Be to Undo First-Term Steps

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As he looks forward to a second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke's biggest challenge will be to undo much of what made him a hero during his first term. 
 In nominating Mr. Bernanke on Tuesday, Mr. Obama praised the Fed chairman for his ''bold action and out-of-the-box thinking,'' saying it had helped avoid a repeat of the Great Depression.
 But most of those bold actions -- lending hundreds of billions of dollars to banks and businesses, slashing overnight interest rates to nearly zero, having the Fed almost single-handedly finance the mortgage market -- will have to be reversed or rolled back over the next few years. 
 If the Fed shifts too quickly from the role of savior to that of strict disciplinarian, it risks aborting the recovery and tipping the nation back into a recession, essentially repeating mistakes made in 1937 after the economy had begun to rebound. If the Fed moves too slowly, it risks the kind of intractable inflation it experienced in the 1970s and fueling another bubble. 
 Compounding the problem is the government's fiscal woes, made clear by an announcement on Tuesday that the budget deficit would be greater than previously projected. 
 For the first time in almost 20 years, the Fed may soon have to make unpopular decisions that raise the cost of borrowing even when the economy still feels weak. It has already decided it must tolerate high unemployment, which the Obama administration said Monday would exceed 10 percent, through at least the end of next year. It is already phasing out smaller programs to provide emergency credit, and will have to decide when to scale back bigger ones. 
 At some point next year, the Fed may well need to raise interest rates -- possibly rapidly and sharply, given how far it cut them last year -- and in the process raise the cost of things like credit cards, mortgages and business loans.
 Any or all of those actions will probably restrain economic growth and keep unemployment rates high, potentially putting the Bernanke Fed on a collision course with the Obama White House.
 The federal government's enormous fiscal problem makes that clash more likely. The White House estimated on Tuesday that the government faced a $9 trillion budget shortfall over the next 10 years. The annual deficits will exceed $1 trillion through 2011, the administration said, and the annual cost of paying interest on the debt will exceed $600 billion in 2019. 
 The government's enormous borrowing needs will probably put pressure on the private sector after the economy begins to expand. If that happens, investors may demand higher interest rates on Treasury securities and ultimately drive up borrowing costs for government and businesses alike.
 The Fed has faced that kind of conflict before, and the politics were not pretty. Paul A. Volcker, the Fed chairman who tamed inflation in the early 1980s after pushing the federal funds rate to 20 percent, came under attack from businesses, farmers and the White House under President Ronald Reagan.
 Alan Greenspan faced considerable pressure in the early 1990s, when President George H. W. Bush wanted him to cut interest rates more quickly. To this day, many alumni of the Bush administration blame Mr. Greenspan for Mr. Bush's re-election defeat. 
 What worries some experts, including Mr. Bernanke, is that the Fed's expanding role during the financial crisis exposes it to political pressure. Lawmakers, having seen the Fed bail out corporations and extend credit to entire industries, have prodded the central bank to help out other constituencies, like recreational vehicle manufacturers.
 At the same time, the Fed's political critics are multiplying. A bill sponsored by Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas, would empower the Government Accountability Office to ''audit'' the Fed's decisions on interest rates. Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials have warned that that would damage the Fed's independence. Still, the measure has been signed by more than 250 lawmakers in both parties.
 Mr. Obama, announcing his decision to nominate Mr. Bernanke for another term, vowed to ''continue to maintain a strong and independent Federal Reserve.''
 And in supporting Mr. Bernanke, a Republican first appointed by President George W. Bush, Mr. Obama signaled that he was willing to rise above party loyalties. 
 ''Ben approached a financial system on the verge of collapse with calm and wisdom,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 Unless a disaster erupts out of nowhere, Mr. Bernanke's Senate confirmation appears certain.
 ''While I have had serious differences with the Federal Reserve over the past few years, I think reappointing Chairman Bernanke is probably the right choice,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, in a statement on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Dodd, who has frequently accused the Fed of failing to rein in reckless mortgage lending, added that Mr. Bernanke had ''ultimately demonstrated effective leadership'' in the crisis.
 At the Fed's annual symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo., last weekend, some analysts criticized Mr. Bernanke for sending contradictory signals. 
 ''The Fed is simultaneously promising to keep interest rates low for an extended period, while also promising to keep inflation from rising,'' said Carl E. Walsh, a professor of economics at the University of California, Santa Cruz, in a paper delivered at the conference. 
 Fed officials disagreed with his assessment, countering that inflation was, if anything, at risk of being lower than they would like.
 ''The low interest rates are designed to keep inflation from falling, and falling persistently below where we want them to be,'' said Donald L. Kohn, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
 For the moment, Mr. Bernanke has some breathing room. Even though the federal government is borrowing at a staggering pace, American businesses and consumers have slowed their own borrowing so much that the United States total is down from previous years. 
 Foreign investors seeking a haven have plowed vast amounts of money into Treasury securities. As a result, interest rates on long-term Treasury bonds, which directly influence interest rates on corporate loans and home mortgages, remain low.
 But as business activity picks up around the world, the competition among debt issuers is likely to increase and interest rates could rise. Clashing priorities are not hard to imagine. The Obama White House might want to lift a sluggish recovery by keeping interest rates low. And the Bernanke Fed may want to head off inflation -- before it is too late.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, on Martha's Vineyard, nominated Ben S. Bernanke to a new term as Fed chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



693 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Prosecutor Who Got Loan From Christie Quits

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The No. 2 official in New Jersey's United States attorney's office resigned on Tuesday, less than two weeks after revelations that she borrowed $46,000 from her former boss, Christopher J. Christie, who is now the state's Republican candidate for governor. 
 The official, Michele A. Brown, the first assistant, was given the mortgage by Mr. Christie and his wife in 2007, while he was United States attorney and Ms. Brown's husband was unemployed. 
 But with Mr. Christie running for governor on his record as a corruption fighter, and Ms. Brown in a powerful position at a prosecutor's office that has brought highly publicized corruption cases against Gov. Jon S. Corzine's Democratic allies in recent months, Ms. Brown's financial ties to her former boss raised questions about her ability to be impartial in her duties. 
 In a letter of resignation released on Tuesday, Ms. Brown said she was proud of her work during 18 years as a prosecutor, and was determined not to let the controversy disrupt the office. 
 ''I know how important it is that we continue to pursue our mission, and I do not want to become a distraction,'' she wrote.
 Mr. Christie, who has described his loan to the Browns as a helping hand to friends, has asserted that he and Ms. Brown have not discussed the inner workings of the office, or its cases, since he stepped down last year. He praised her accomplishments, saying she had proved herself a determined and fair-minded prosecutor during Republican and Democratic administrations, and won respect from all corners of the legal system.
 ''Michele's long and distinguished record of public service is impressive, and during that time she's shown herself to be a fair and respected federal prosecutor among judges, adversaries and her peers.''
 But Democrats vowed to continue their demand for more documents to explore whether Mr. Christie and Ms. Brown used the office to help bolster his candidacy. Even before the loan was revealed, Mr. Corzine's campaign had filed a Freedom of Information Act request for e-mail, telephone and travel records that might link Ms. Brown and Mr. Christie. Democrats hope to use the controversy to regain momentum in a race that Governor Corzine has trailed in most public opinion polls. 
 ''Michele Brown's resignation today does nothing to put to rest questions about Christie's conduct both in and outside of the U.S. attorney's office,'' said Elisabeth Smith, the Corzine campaign's press secretary. 
 In the days since the loan first became publicly known, Corzine aides have criticized Mr. Christie for failing to report the loan on his financial disclosure forms or taxes. The governor's running mate, Loretta Weinberg, called on Ms. Brown to recuse herself from any dealings with the Corzine campaign's Freedom of Information requests for Ms. Brown's records and complained to the Justice Department that the requests had been improperly delayed. 
 Mr. Corzine's top campaign aide, Tom Shea, also accused Mr. Christie of misusing his authority as United States attorney by giving a raise and promotion to Ms. Brown, a subordinate who owed him money. But Republicans say the attacks are an act of desperation by Democrats, and an example of Mr. Corzine's willingness to use his wealth to trample anyone who stands between him and a political goal. 
 ''Jon Corzine earned a reputation that he was willing to spend millions on negative attacks and play down and dirty in order to win,'' said State Senator Diane B. Allen, a Republican who said the Corzine campaign's actions were shameful. ''He has certainly lived up to that reputation with his most recent target -- a career prosecutor who has made it her life's work to end New Jersey's culture of corruption. Apparently a nearly 20-year commitment serving the public doesn't matter to Jon Corzine if you are a means to his political end.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); CORRUPTION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (67%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



694 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Leader Maps Out Plan for Workings of Independent State

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
The Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad, unveiled a government program on Tuesday to build the apparatus of a Palestinian state within two years, regardless of progress in the stalled peace negotiations with Israel. 
 The plan, the first of its kind from the Palestinian Authority, sets out national goals and priorities and operational instructions for ministries and official bodies. Mr. Fayyad said it was meant to hasten the end of the Israeli occupation and pave the way to independent statehood, which he said ''can and must happen within the next two years.'' 
 There was no immediate official Israeli comment, with the prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, in Europe. But two Israeli officials reacted with consternation over what they saw as a unilateral action. The United States consul general in Jerusalem expressed approval for the plan. 
 Mr. Fayyad, an American-educated economist and a political independent who has gained the confidence of the West and is largely respected in Israel, made the announcement in the West Bank city of Ramallah. He said the goal of the plan was ''to establish a de facto state apparatus within the next two years.''
 His plan was not meant to be ''in lieu of the political process, but to reinforce it,'' Mr. Fayyad said in an interview with The New York Times. Negotiations and state-building, he said, need to be pursued in parallel. 
 The Western-backed Palestinian leadership has recently been accused of passivity in its approach to peacemaking and pursuit of independence. Mr. Fayyad said the new program represented a proactive effort to form the foundation of the state. His announcement came on a day when Mr. Netanyahu met with Prime Minister Gordon Brown in London. On Wednesday, he is to meet there with George J. Mitchell, the Obama administration's Middle East envoy. 
 Jacob Walles, the American consul general, spoke of the plan in an interview here on Monday, before Mr. Fayyad's announcement. He said that it was the first time he had seen such a ''concrete plan'' and that the Palestinians were working in a practical way toward their goal. 
 Mr. Walles added that under the premiership of Mr. Fayyad there had been ''a lot of progress in the West Bank'' in economic, security and other spheres. 
 Yuval Steinitz, the finance minister of the conservative Likud Party, called Mr. Fayyad's ideas ''disappointing.'' 
 ''This is contrary to all the agreements signed between the sides,'' Mr. Steinitz told Israel Radio. ''There is no place for unilateralism, no place for threats, and of course, there will be no Palestinian state at all, if any, without ensuring the state of Israel's security.''
 Daniel Ayalon, the deputy foreign minister of the nationalist Yisrael Beiteinu Party, said that ''artificial dates and arbitrary deadlines never worked in the past, but caused only damage and would not work now.''
 Mr. Fayyad's plan lays out a broad outline for a democratic Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza, with East Jerusalem as its capital. The plan states, for example, that ''shelter, education and health insurance are basic rights which will be preserved and protected by the state,'' which also has ''an enduring obligation to care and provide for the martyrs, prisoners, orphans and all those harmed in the Palestinian struggle for independence.'' 
 Aspirations for the economy include ridding it of outside hegemony and reversing its dependence on Israel. Goals for the Finance Ministry include reducing reliance on international aid by controlling spending and increasing domestic revenues. The government is to offer tax incentives to local and foreign investors.
 The Palestinian Authority has instructed its Ministry of Transport to help develop legislation and plans for modern seaports, crossing points and airports, including an international airport in the Jordan Valley.
 Mr. Fayyad acknowledges that the Palestinian national cause has been hampered by internal schism, which limits the authority of President Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah and the Fayyad government to the West Bank and leaves Hamas, its Islamic rival, in control of Gaza. 
 The program could be adopted by any Palestinian government over the next two years, Mr. Fayyad said. ''It is a rallying call for our people to unite behind our vision,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Salam Fayyad announced the plan, the first of its kind from the Palestinian Authority, in his Ramallah office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABBAS MOMANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); GORDON BROWN (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



695 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Steps Back From Race Remarks

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: STONY BROOK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson attempted to distance himself on Tuesday from comments he made last week suggesting that some in the news media who are critical of him and other black politicians are motivated by racial bias.
 If he intended to quell the furor his remarks caused, his comments on Tuesday appeared to only complicate the situation.
 While Mr. Paterson said he regretted the distraction his comments had caused and hoped he could put the episode behind him, he denied having insinuated that race was a factor in criticism of his leadership. That denial -- which is contradicted by what he said in two interviews -- made for an odd exchange with reporters on Tuesday afternoon. 
 ''My remarks never say that there's a race element at all,'' Mr. Paterson told reporters after an appearance at Stony Brook University on Long Island, where a speech on his economic initiatives was quickly overshadowed by the controversy over his earlier remarks. 
 ''What I did talk about was some negative racial stereotyping, which I think has gone on from time to time,'' Mr. Paterson added. ''But I didn't blame my problems on that, and I'm not changing the remarks I made. I'm just correcting the interpretations of my remarks that are wrong.''
 In a radio interview on Friday, Mr. Paterson said governors of other states with similarly difficult financial problems have not experienced the kind of criticism directed at him and Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, the country's other black governor. 
 ''My poll numbers are no worse than the 40 other governors who are in states that have deficits,'' he told Errol Louis, the host of a morning call-in show on WWRL-FM. ''My point is you don't hear this crusade that it's time for the governor to step aside. My feeling is that it's being orchestrated. It's a game, and people who pay attention know that.''
 Then he pointed to what he saw as derogatory depictions of black leaders of the State Senate and said President Obama would probably be the next black political figure to face such attacks.
 ''I submit that the same kind of treatment that Deval Patrick is receiving right now in Massachusetts, and I'm receiving, the way in which the New York State Senate was written about, calling them a bunch of people with thick necks,'' Mr. Paterson continued, ''that we're not in the post-racial period. And the reality is that the next victim on the list -- and you see it coming -- is President Barack Obama.''
 Mr. Paterson raised the issue of bias again in an interview on Saturday with Gerson Borrero, a political commentator, that was posted on the Internet on Monday
 The comments have left Mr. Paterson more politically isolated. The White House distanced itself on Monday from Mr. Paterson's remarks, saying that President Obama does not believe that his critics are motivated by race. And on Friday Mr. Obama's political director, Patrick Gaspard, took the unusual step of telephoning the governor's top adviser, Larry S. Schwartz, to express displeasure with the remarks.
 Democrats in Albany and New York City have also backed away from the governor. David N. Dinkins, the former mayor, and Charlie King, an associate of the Rev. Al Sharpton and a prominent Harlem political leader, also disputed the governor's characterizations.
 Tuesday's exchanges were the first questions on the issue Mr. Paterson has answered. At first he tried to tamp down some of the controversy by admitting that he had caused a distraction, but his insistence that he never suggested that race had anything to do with criticism of him quickly became a point of contention with reporters.
 ''I didn't say it,'' Mr. Paterson said, referring to the suggestion that racial prejudice was a factor among his critics. A reporter then read the governor's comments with Mr. Borrero, in which he said, ''One very successful minority is permissible, but when you see too many success stories, then some people get nervous.''
 Mr. Paterson said then that he had let his emotions get the better of him. 
 ''I don't think that it's an orchestrated attempt,'' he said. ''And I think this is the kind of distraction that, in my view, arose from a personal incident that annoyed me that I would just rather move on.''
 The ''personal incident'' Mr. Paterson was referring to was a comment by a local television reporter suggesting that the governor was allowing his daughter to stay late at a nightclub. The reporter incorrectly said the daughter was under age.
 ''We all have a point where our buttons can be pushed,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''And we all know that criticizing the media is something that we try to avoid. And I tried to avoid it, but there was one incident that was personal to me. And I addressed it. And as far as I'm concerned, that's the end of it.''
 The governor's attempt to calm the situation on Tuesday left even some Democrats saying that they were concerned that Mr. Paterson himself had become too much of a distraction. 
 ''That he's denying it, it's baffling to me to say the least,'' said Senator Bill Perkins of Harlem, a Democrat who now holds the same seat Mr. Paterson held when he was a state senator. ''We need the governor on message, on target. Right now he's off target.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson was surrounded by reporters seeking comments after he spoke on his economic policies at Stony Brook. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); DEVAL PATRICK (59%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



696 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Comedy Central Tries to Gauge Passion of Its Viewers

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
DO your friends who watch Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert, the late-night hosts on the Comedy Central cable channel, stop you on the latte line the next morning or e-mail, text or tweet you to quote lines from those shows? 
 And when they do, do you think that they're kind of cool? 
 Comedy Central has research that says you do -- or at least some committed fans of those shows are convinced that you do. A little over 20 percent of hard-core fans of Mr. Stewart and Mr. Colbert said in a ''multi-engagement study'' conducted by Harris Interactive Research that ''people think I'm cool because I watch'' those two programs.
 And, the same survey says, viewers who identify themselves as fans of other late-night hosts -- viewers who don't even watch the Comedy Central shows -- are pretty darn impressed too. Among the terms fans of people like Jay Leno, David Letterman and Conan O'Brien used to describe viewers of Mr. Stewart and Mr. Colbert were ''enthusiastic,'' ''friendly,'' ''fun,'' ''more informed, ''more intelligent,'' ''trustworthy,'' ''warm,'' and ''witty.'' 
 All those encomiums, which were included in a list that participants could check off, were chosen by more than 60 percent of people answering the survey, which, it should come as no surprise, was commissioned by Comedy Central. Besides the virtue of puffing up their viewers' self-images, the survey had a practical point. 
 The cable channel wants to prove that its late-night viewers are so impassioned about their hosts that their shows offer special value to beleaguered television advertisers looking to ensure that their messages reach truly engaged viewers.
 That message, however much anyone might question its provenance, may have real resonance, said Andy Donchin, the director of media investments for the Carat USA, an agency that buys commercial time for companies like Adidas and Pfizer. He said he was not directly familiar with the Harris research, but the implications sounded like something advertisers are now hungering for.
 ''Passion, engagement -- that is so huge to us.'' Mr. Donchin said. ''We are very big on involvement.''
 The information that Comedy Central put together was intended to contrast its late-night hosts with the other men in suits sitting behind desks and talking to guests over on the broadcast networks. As explained by Beth Coleman, a vice president for advertising sales for MTV Entertainment Networks, the parent of Comedy Central, the study asked 3,700 viewers of late-night shows to talk about their favorite shows and topics, including how often they watched, how many times they sought out the shows online, whether a program inspired them to action like buying books of guest authors -- ultimately, how important the shows and hosts are in their lives.
 In terms of numbers, these committed late-night viewers tend to watch the Comedy Central stars more often, with about 40 percent averaging two-to-four viewings a week, according to the survey. The best performance by a network late-night star was Jay Leno (he was still on the ''Tonight Show'' then) at 29 percent.
 In the Harris survey, conducted from Oct. 29 to Dec. 22 last year -- a period that included the presidential election and its aftermath, which could have bolstered the politically charged versions of late-night humor that Comedy Central offers -- the biggest margins of difference came when fans were asked about their ''emotional connection'' to their favorite shows.
 Or, as Ms. Coleman described the behavior of the committed late-night viewers: ''They not only talk, but they stalk.''
 When asked if they out-and-out loved a show, ''The Daily Show'' with Mr. Stewart hit 51 percent among those surveyed, with ''The Colbert Report'' second at 39 percent.
 Only one network star came close to generating that much love: CBS's Craig Ferguson. Among his fans, 35 percent said they loved his show. That may come as something of a surprise to those who don't often catch Mr. Ferguson, a host who almost always generates boisterous enthusiasm, and big laughs from his studio audience.
 Mr. Ferguson fared best of the network hosts in many other of the Harris survey categories (like ''fits my entertainment needs perfectly''). But the network hosts always trailed the Comedy Central hosts. That apparently emboldened the cable channel to measure Mr. Stewart and Mr. Colbert against the ultimate object of viewer affection: Oprah Winfrey.
 Comparing reactions of committed viewers, the Comedy Central hosts easily held their own even against the power of Ms. Winfrey. She was dominant in things like getting viewers to visits Web sites and read books she recommended; but, in what looked like a real upset, both Mr. Stewart and Mr. Colbert did better on the question of whether a viewer wanted to be the host's personal assistant for a day.
 Viewers of ''The Daily Show'' and ''The Colbert Report'' have a deep personal connection to the shows, Ms. Coleman said. ''They wear these shows like a badge,'' she said. ''It's a cultlike phenomenon.''
 What advertiser wouldn't want in on that? That is a question being posed by Jeff Lucas, the executive vice president for advertising sales for MTV Entertainment Networks. He said, ''The quality of the viewers is a big determinant in getting advertisers to spend money, especially in tough economic times.'' 
 He added that Comedy Central is trying to use the Harris research to persuade advertisers that its late-night shows deserve a premium price. ''This is independent of our saying it,'' he said.
 Mr. Donchin of Carat said that although he had not seen the research, ''I'd hate to say they can charge a premium'' based on it.
 He said Carat's clients would be impressed with evidence of deep audience involvement with the Comedy Central shows but would nonetheless probably buy across the spectrum of late-night programs. ''We want to be on all the shows,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Colbert, above, and Jon Stewart draw more devoted attention from their primary fans than other latenight hosts, Comedy Central is telling advertisers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MANUEL/USO, VIA REUTERS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES, FOR COMEDY CENTRAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (52%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (93%); STEPHEN COLBERT (91%); DAVID LETTERMAN (58%); CONAN O'BRIEN (58%); JAY LENO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: Daily Show, The (TV Program); Colbert Report, The (TV Program); Daily Show, The (TV Program); Colbert Report, The (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



697 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Shares Manage Gains on the Day

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
For investors looking for stability in the financial markets and more signs of a recovery, it was easy to cheer the news on Tuesday. The chairman of the Federal Reserve was nominated for another term, housing prices showed slender improvement, and consumers grew more confident.
 So after a day of listless trading, Wall Street resumed a rally and moved higher, led by consumer-geared companies and big banks like Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 30.01 points, or 0.32 percent, to 9,539.29. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also rose 0.24 percent, or 2.43 points, to 1,028. Both indexes closed at a new high for the year. The Nasdaq also gained, rising 6.25 points, or 0.31 percent, to end at 2,024.23.
 ''It's been really hard to push this market down,'' said Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at Key Private Bank. ''We think there's more to come with this rally, and there's an underlying strength to this rally that still isn't recognized.''
 Investors bought broadly, pushing up shares of department stores, automobile retailers, home builders and technology firms. Major stock indexes have surged more than 15 percent since mid-July as investors put their money back into equity markets, hoping the rally would continue.
 But declines in oil and copper prices weighed on companies that sell gasoline and energy and produce basic materials like chemicals and plastics. Crude oil prices, which flirted with $75 a barrel on Monday, fell $2.32, to $72.05 a barrel, pulling down shares of oil companies like Exxon Mobil and Hess. 
 The news came in rapid succession on Tuesday morning. President Obama interrupted his vacation in Massachusetts to announce that he was reappointing Ben. S. Bernanke as Fed chairman, citing Mr. Bernanke's able response to the financial crisis. 
 Many investors have praised the Fed's moves to restart the short-term credit markets and restore confidence in the markets, even if they are worried about the central bank's larger role in the economy. Economists and analysts said Tuesday that his reappointment would provide stability and continuity to the markets. 
 As Mr. Obama spoke, Standard & Poor's released its monthly Case-Shiller Home Price index, a closely watched barometer of the housing market. Prices of single-family homes in 20 metropolitan areas fell less than expected from last year, and prices in 18 cities were higher in June than a month earlier.
 Stocks crested higher still on the heels of new figures showing that consumer confidence had bounded back in August after slipping in July. The Conference Board's survey of consumers found that fewer people said that business conditions were bad, and that consumers detected some hints of thaw in the job market.
 Over all, consumer confidence rose to 54.1 in August from 47.4 a month earlier -- marked improvements from the deepest days of the recession, when consumer sentiment hit record lows amid heavy job losses and huge declines in financial markets. 
 Still, people are worried about finding work as the unemployment rate nears 10 percent, and many expect the job market and the climate for business to remain difficult in the months ahead.
 In its latest forecast, the Office of Management and Budget said Tuesday that it expected unemployment to reach 10 percent by early next year and that the rate would average 9.8 percent in 2010.
 Many investors are concerned that consumers will keep a lid on their spending, potentially stifling a broader recovery, as they try to rebuild their finances and worry about losing their jobs or having their wages cut.
 ''As long as earnings continue to weigh heavily on consumers' minds, spending is likely to remain constrained,'' Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center, said in a statement.
 Even as stock prices ticked higher, investors continued to express demand for government debt in auctions. The price on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 12/32 to 101 19/32. The yield fell to 3.43, down from 3.48 percent late Monday. 
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week and 52-week bills and two-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); COPPER MARKETS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); CITIES (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (57%); NEW CAR DEALERS (51%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



698 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Shows a Notable Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumer sentiment rose more than expected in August, an indication that Americans' pessimism about the economy might be lifting.
 The New York-based Conference Board said Tuesday that its Consumer Confidence index rose to 54.1, from an upwardly revised 47.4 in July. 
 Economists surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected a slight increase to 47.5. Still, the index is far below 90, the minimum level associated with a healthy economy. Above 100 signals strong growth.
 Economists closely monitor confidence because consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of United States economic activity. Consumer sentiment -- aided by signs the economy is stabilizing -- has recovered a bit since hitting a record low 25.3 in February.
 Many analysts expect the economy to grow 2 to 3 percent in the current quarter, spurred by a more stable housing market and the cash-for-clunkers program, which has increased auto sales.
 But economists worry that without more consumer spending, the recovery may weaken next year.
 The housing slump and a weak job market have made consumers reluctant to spend. But the outlook for jobs is improving, the Conference Board said, with fewer respondents saying positions are hard to get, and more saying they are plentiful.
 Consumers' expectations for the economy in the next six months rose to 73.5, from 63.4 in July, the highest level since December 2007, when the recession began. The consumer confidence survey was sent to 5,000 households and had a response deadline of Aug. 18.
 The housing sector also received positive news. The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller National Home Price index rose nearly 3 percent in the second quarter from the January-March period, the first quarterly increase in three years. Home prices, while still down almost 15 percent from last year, are at levels last seen in early 2003.
 The reports, with President Obama's reappointment of Ben S. Bernanke as Federal Reserve chairman, sent the financial markets higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 30 points, and broader indexes also gained slightly.
 Mr. Obama said Tuesday that his administration's $787 billion stimulus package and the extraordinary efforts by Mr. Bernanke to pump trillions of dollars into the financial system had helped turn the economy around.
 Jobs are a weak spot, however, and could limit consumer spending if Americans remain concerned about layoffs or declining wages.
 Still, the Labor Department reported last week that the unemployment rate dipped for the first time in 15 months, and workers' hours and pay rose slightly in July. The unemployment rate slipped to 9.4 percent, from 9.5 percent, while July job losses slowed to a total of 247,000, the fewest in a year and a big improvement from 443,000 in June.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100.(Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



699 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Atomic Agency Is Pressed on Iran Records

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
The Obama administration and its European allies are pressing the International Atomic Energy Agency to make public evidence that they believe points toward an Iranian drive to gain the ability to build a nuclear weapon, part of a broad effort to build a case for far more punishing sanctions against the country.
 The request has touched off an internal debate in the agency over how directly to confront Iran over its continued refusal, over several years, to answer questions about documents and computer files suggesting military-led efforts to design a nuclear weapon. Iran has charged that the documents, many of which came from American, Israeli and European intelligence services, are fabrications. The agency, according to current and former officials there, has studied them with care and determined that they are probably genuine. 
 ''What we and all the allies are pressing for is for the full case to be laid out, in public,'' one senior Obama administration official said last week, speaking anonymously because he was discussing intelligence data. 
 The administration's push for an open discussion of Iran's suspected weapons program, and for tougher sanctions, reflects growing pessimism about efforts to engage with the country's leaders. Administration officials said that while they had received some communications from the Iranian leadership before the presidential election in June, there had been no communications of substance since. 
 But agency officials say that Mohamed ElBaradei, the departing director general, resisted a public airing, fearing that such a presentation would make the agency appear biased toward the West in the effort to impose what Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton recently called ''crippling'' sanctions. Dr. ElBaradei, who has argued for allowing Iran to maintain a token capacity to produce uranium under strict inspection, has said that the evidence does not create an airtight case against Iran.
 The Obama administration's effort to make the case public contrasts with the approach of President George W. Bush. After the intelligence debacle surrounding Iraq, Bush administration officials said they lacked the credibility to make public the evidence about Iran's nuclear efforts. Mr. Bush admitted as much in 2005, saying that the case would have to be made quietly. 
 Moreover, American intelligence agencies had balked at publishing some of their most sensitive discoveries, including data stripped from a laptop computer slipped out of the country by an Iranian nuclear engineer. 
 Some of that information was described to member countries of the I.A.E.A. by the agency's chief inspector during a closed meeting in February 2008. The official, Olli Heinonen, laid out an array of documents, sketches and video that he said were ''not consistent with any application other than the development of a nuclear weapon.'' News of that presentation quickly leaked, and the details were denounced by Iranian officials as fabrications.
 But before and since Mr. Heinonen's briefing, Iran has refused to allow the agency to talk with Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, the scientist believed to lead two secret efforts inside the Iranian government called Project 110 and Project 111. The evidence collected by the agency suggests that each centers on elements of designing and delivering a nuclear weapon, though the United States said in a National Intelligence Estimate published nearly two years ago that it believed those projects were halted, at least temporarily, in late 2003.
 A European diplomat familiar with the agency's internal deliberations said that the United States, Britain, France and Germany were pressing the agency to reveal the strongest information it had gathered. 
 ''There's multilateral activity under way to ramp up pressure on Iran,'' the official said. ''It's not just Israel.''
 The agency's next report on Iran is expected to be released as soon as Thursday or Friday. A senior European official said it contained ''no bombshells,'' but it was unclear how much analysis of previous information on bomb design and conversations among Iran's nuclear engineers it might reveal. Much of that information came from the laptop, from a penetration of Iran's computer networks and from the agency's own findings, American and European officials said. 
 One nuclear official familiar with the preparation of the report said that a high-level dispute had broken out in the atomic agency over whether the report should include a toughly worded analysis of Iran's activities, in hopes of forcing a response from Iran. But Dr. ElBaradei has remained cautious, they said, and it was unlikely that much of the material would be included in the report.
 Assessing the progress that Iran has made in the nuclear arena over the past year is difficult, and it has been made more complex by the upheaval that followed the election there. 
 Next Wednesday, American and European officials are scheduled to meet to discuss their next steps on Iran, and President Obama has said he will use the opening of the United NationsGeneral Assembly later in the month, and perhaps an economic summit meeting in Pittsburgh, to press for far tougher sanctions. Among the penalties under consideration is a cutoff of refined gasoline to Iran, but a senior administration official said last week that such a step ''will be a hard sell for China and Russia,'' which have extensive economic ties to Iran.
 When the inspectors last reported on their periodic visits to Iran's main nuclear site, at Natanz, they said roughly 7,000 centrifuges had been installed to produce uranium. All of it was low-enriched uranium, which is not suitable for weapons. Iran insists that the fuel is for eventual use in nuclear power plants. 
 Iran has barred the inspectors from other sites, including some suspected of being part of a nuclear weapons program. It was during such an inspection five years ago that I.A.E.A. inspectors discovered enrichment activities that had been hidden for 18 years.
 But last week the agency's inspectors were allowed to visit the nearly finished Arak heavy water reactor after being barred from the site for nearly a year. That facility has been of intense interest to the inspectors because its technology could aid nuclear weapons development. 
 Obama administration officials said they suspected that the visit was part of an effort to show cooperation just before the I.A.E.A.'s report. But they said that since Iran's election, they had not received an Iranian response to Mr. Obama's invitation to open discussions on nuclear issues.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The International Atomic Energy Agency's leader, Mohamed ElBaradei, is said to worry that his agency could appear biased. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMMAR AWAD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ELECTIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



700 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Inn Reaches Back to Its Memphis Roots

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
In 1996, the furniture from the world's first Holiday Inn, in Memphis, became part of a museum collection. But this year, the family of C. Kemmons Wilson, who founded the Holiday Inn chain in 1952, borrowed it back.
 The pieces -- including a television, headboard, nightstand, desk and lamp -- are now displayed behind glass in the lobby of a new Holiday Inn in Memphis. The 133-room hotel -- officially the Holiday Inn Hotel & Suites Memphis-Wolfchase Galleria -- was built by the descendants of Mr. Wilson, who died in 2003. 
 The InterContinental Hotels Group, which owns the Holiday Inn brand, had worked to bring the Wilson family back into the fold. ''They've wanted to embrace history and heritage, rather than ignore it,'' C. Kemmons Wilson Jr., principal of the privately held Kemmons Wilson Companies, said by telephone before the ribbon-cutting at the new Holiday Inn. ''And we're tickled to death.'' 
 The InterContinental Hotels Group is the largest hotel operator in the world, with some 600,000 rooms and more in the pipeline to help it to keep that distinction, hotel industry analysts say. Yet Holiday Inn, the largest of the company's seven brands (with 424,000 rooms in 3,300 hotels), has languished in recent decades. 
 According to Bjorn Hanson, a professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, Holiday Inn was once ''the No. 1 midprice brand,'' but in recent decades, he said, the chain's ''size became a disadvantage as competitors introduced new designs and economic models'' -- leaving Holiday Inn with hundreds of outdated hotels.
 Mr. Wilson said in a telephone interview that ''there was a period there when you weren't real sure what you would get when you checked in.'' 
 He added: ''There used to be an ad for Holiday Inn that said, 'The best surprise is no surprise.' But in recent decades, people were sometimes surprised.''
 In the meantime, the Kemmons Wilson Companies focused on other businesses, including aviation, insurance and financial services. While it never got out of the hotel business entirely, it was as likely to affiliate its properties with Hampton Inn, a brand owned by Hilton, as with Holiday Inn. (It also operates hotels that it built as philanthropic ventures for the University of Memphis and for St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital.)
 But the family was courted by executives of InterContinental, which is based in Denham, Buckinghamshire, outside London. 
 ''It's a British company, but a very American brand,'' said Andrew Cosslett, the company's chief executive since 2005. 
 Mr. Cosslett was in Memphis this month for the ribbon-cutting at the two-month-old hotel. And he has consulted the Wilson family numerous times, even getting their blessing for a new Holiday Inn logo, which retains the green of the founder's midcentury signage.
 Kemmons Wilson Sr. began planning the first Holiday Inn in 1951, after taking his children on a trip to Washington and lamenting the lack of family-friendly accommodations. The trip ''got my dad thinking about this great untapped market out there,'' said his son, who was 6 at the time. 
 Over the years, the elder Wilson built the Holiday Inn chain as franchisor, while also becoming a franchisee. In 1990, he sold the Holiday Inn brand to Bass, the British brewing company.
 InterContinental was created out of what had been the hotel division of Bass in 2003. The company had to decide whether to rehabilitate the Holiday Inn trademark. ''They did a lot of research -- should they put money into this brand? -- and the research was showing people had a good feeling about Holiday Inn,'' Mr. Wilson said. 
 In 2007, the company announced what it called a ''relaunch,'' meant to make Holiday Inns more appealing to both vacationers and business travelers. On the outside, there would be new lighting and landscaping, as well as signs with the new logo; on the inside, there would be new bedding, including a choice of pillows (an echo of the offerings at more upscale hotels). 
 The company even developed a Holiday Inn scent that is ''simple and clean, open and airy, and warm,'' according to a spokesman. The scent is delivered into common areas via through a hidden ''scent delivery machine.''
 Hotel owners have already brought 1,000 Holiday Inns up to the new standards, according to InterContinental, which says there are 1,000 more Holiday Inns in 47 countries under development. About 700 of those will be in the United States.
 At the same time, hotel owners who would not or could not meet the new standards were asked to stop flying the Holiday Inn flag. Unlike Bass, the previous owner, InterContinental has ''had the courage to come in and terminate franchises that weren't up to standards,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''A lot of hotels will leave the system in the next 18 months,'' Mr. Cosslett said.
 Others are working to meet the company's demands, which are contained in a ''brand standards manual'' distributed in 2007. In San Francisco, the Holiday Inn Civic Center is in the midst of a floor-by-floor renovation that has some parts of the hotel looking chic and others dowdy.
 According to InterContinental, Holiday Inns that meet the new standards are outperforming the chain's other hotels, in terms of revenue per available room, by more than 5 percent.
 Last fall, soon after the brand's makeover was announced, the hospitality market went into a tailspin, but Mr. Cosslett said he was not fazed. ''The market isn't where it was, but the market is still viable,'' he said.
 Indeed, with the luxury end of the hotel market experiencing the steepest declines, Holiday Inn is a good brand to be promoting, Mr. Cosslett said. The goal, he said, ''is to represent it to a generation that thought it had left the brand behind.''
 Certainly, the late Mr. Wilson could not have imagined the amenities in the current rooms, which include Wi-Fi and flat-panel televisions.
 The entire Memphis hotel (that city's seventh Holiday Inn) is no smoking -- which seems logical in light of the mandatory scent.
 The original Holiday Inn charged $4 a night. The rack rate at the new Memphis property is $169, said Mr. Wilson.
 His son, McLean Wilson, 31, who served as project manager for the new hotel and is now helping to build a Holiday Inn Express a few miles away, said he had a newfound appreciation of his grandfather's accomplishment.
 ''This whole experience has allowed me to feel closer to him, probably, than I felt when he was around, and I could see him and talk to him,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: McLean Wilson, left, grandson of Holiday Inn's founder, and his father, C. Kemmons Wilson Jr., in their new hotel.
Furniture from the first Holiday Inn, above left, displayed behind glass in the lobby, and the decor in the new 133- room Holiday Inn in Memphis, above right. The original Holiday Inn charged $4 a night
 the current rate is $169.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROLLIN RIGGS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); HOTEL CHAINS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); LODGING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SPORTS BUSINESS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (51%); AVIATION INSURANCE (50%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); PHILANTHROPY (50%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (57%)

TICKER: IHG (NYSE) (57%); IHG (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW COSSLETT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



701 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 773 words

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS and PIERRE BRIANCON

 BODY:
An Opportunity 
 To Regain Luster
 Ben Bernanke is not exactly getting a reward for failure. Mr. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is being renominated for a second term as the world's most powerful central banker. 
 He made one big mistake in his first term, but a bigger success is still possible. If that's not forthcoming, there will be nothing rewarding about staying in office. 
 Mr. Bernanke's greatest failure was intellectual. He did not comprehend the economic risks of modern financial practices. He supported the enthusiasm for financial deregulation and innovation shown by Alan Greenspan, his predecessor. In 2004, he hailed the ''macroeconomic flexibility and stability'' provided by ''the increased depth and sophistication of financial markets'' and increased openness to international capital flows. 
 The theoretical underestimation probably encouraged Mr. Bernanke to excessive optimism as the financial crisis developed. In May 2007, when the subprime mortgage market was crumbling, the Fed believed the effect on the broader housing market would be ''limited'' with no ''significant spillovers'' to the economy or even the financial system. 
 In October of that year, with money markets tightening, Mr. Bernanke could not have been clearer: ''The banking system is healthy.'' 
 He was spectacularly wrong. Under his watch, the so-called Great Moderation -- the years of steady growth and low inflation around the world -- developed into the worst financial crisis and recession in six decades. Mr. Bernanke's Fed did, at least, respond aggressively with an array of unprecedented policies. 
 President Obama was presumably not thinking about Mr. Bernanke's discredited confidence when he decided to name him to a second four-year term. Mr. Obama knows that jittery investors want continuity. Even if the president desired change, he would have struggled to find a distinguished economist with a greatly different agenda. 
 Mr. Bernanke the activist could yet prove much more successful than Mr. Bernanke the optimist. Gross domestic product is still depressed, the financial system is still on government life support and the Fed's policy interest rate and balance sheet are still at abnormal levels. 
 A better judgment should be possible by the time Mr. Bernanke's new term expires in 2014. So he should be around to take the glory, or feel the shame.
 G.M. Walks Fine Line
 It's the best idea that's come up so far about Opel. Keep it in the house. 
 Opel, the troubled European division of General Motors, was put on the block this year when its parent company's own future was in doubt. Since then, the skies have cleared somewhat, after the United States government took over G.M. and the company emerged quickly from bankruptcy.
 After three months of protracted negotiations, G.M. doesn't seem happy with any of the potential buyers' terms. One reason is that it wants to keep strong industrial and technological ties to Opel. So why not go back to the drawing board and keep the division?
 The problem with this option is that it omits the 800-pound gorilla monitoring the proceedings: Germany, home to about half of Opel's work force. Chancellor Angela Merkel's government has pledged support to Opel with some 3 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of financial guarantees. 
 It also extended the company a bridge loan of 1.5 billion euros in May when G.M. entered into talks with the Canadian car-parts maker Magna International. But G.M. and Magna still haven't come to an agreement, and Germany is frowning on other suitors.
 The Magna bid is largely financed by Sberbank, Russia's largest lender, which has ties to the ailing Russian car manufacturer Gaz. G.M.'s board is balking both at technology transfers to Russia and possible future competition from Opel on the Russian market. Germany, on the other hand, is favoring the Magna bid because it would save more jobs.
 Whatever the outcome of the talks, it's hard to see how G.M., based in Detroit, could afford to antagonize Germany's government and unions while keeping its hat in hand for public money. The carmaker has already ruffled German feathers by not settling the Opel crisis sooner. Germany's general elections will be held on Sept. 27, and Mrs. Merkel wants to be able to show voters some kind of long-term solution to Opel's woes. 
 It may be that by dangling yet another solution to the problem, G.M. simply wants to extract better terms from Magna. But the company may also be playing with fire.
 EDWARD HADAS and PIERRE BRIANCON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In October 2007, Ben Bernanke said that ''the banking system is healthy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RECESSION (74%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (53%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



702 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Supporters Call And Call Again For Bloomberg

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
To her friends and neighbors on 156th Street in Queens, she is Camille Casey. To Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's re-election campaign, she is voter No. 301213652, assigned a black and white bar code like those stamped on cereal boxes and soup cans. 
 With the click of a supermarket-style scanner, her profile emerges. She is a registered Democrat. She is worried about rising subway fares. And she is a guaranteed vote for the mayor (making her a ''1'' on the campaign's five-point scale of Bloomberg allegiance). 
 As New Yorkers go about their lives this election season, the Bloomberg campaign is busy condensing and cataloging them into tiny data points, allowing consultants to study them much as Fortune 500 companies analyze their customers. 
 It is one of the many ways in which Mr. Bloomberg is using his vast fortune to try to engineer chance out of the typically unpredictable election process. 
 Even as he sits comfortably ahead of lesser-known rivals, the mayor is assembling the most expensive and, interviews suggest, most meticulous campaign in New York City's history, with a tab of $37 million so far, all of it from Mr. Bloomberg's pocket.
 That money has paid for 15 political field offices, 80 staff members and about 10,000 television ad spots, and helped amass a volunteer army of 5,000. 
 But most of all, it has underwritten an obsessive, even occasionally comical attention to detail, an unheard-of luxury for most campaigns scrimping by on donations.
 To spice up dull campaign work, aides to the mayor recently hired a disc jockey to play background music as volunteers called voters, at a cost of $300. ''People loved it,'' said Larry Scott Blackmon, a campaign staff member who helped dream up the idea. 
 When aides decided to organize a party for young black professionals at a nightclub in Times Square, it took eight weeks of planning. Never mind that entry was free, or that shrimp and wine were plentiful -- incentive enough for most partygoers. The campaign set up a 31-member host committee. It held weekly conference calls to plot strategy. And it called potential guests -- repeatedly -- to remind them to attend, lest the turnout disappoint. 
 In the end, 1,000 people showed up.
 Want to quickly endorse the mayor? Forget about it. The campaign asks potential endorsers to sit for videotapings; hand over their organization's mailing list; send letters to their neighbors; and write an opinion piece for newspapers praising Mr. Bloomberg.
 ''The campaign's whole philosophy is leave no stone unturned,'' said Karen Persichilli Keogh, a political consultant overseeing its outreach to women. 
 The campaign is indistinguishable from its candidate, a former bond trader whose faith in cutting-edge technology and number-crunching earned him billions as founder of the media giant Bloomberg L.P.
 His field team is so persistent that, when volunteers call to solicit voters' support, some report that they have already been called by the campaign -- three times. 
 After a volunteer shift at the campaign office in Queens the other day, Mike Abbate, 72, was relaxing at home when his phone rang: It was a fellow volunteer, asking if the mayor could count on his vote. ''Let me stop you right there,'' Mr. Abbate told the caller. ''I already work for him.''
 The mayor's success in luring thousands of volunteers to a re-election campaign with record-shattering resources and a big lead can seem puzzling, and there is none of the ragtag romanticism that defines insurgent efforts. But volunteers, including retired city workers, unemployed professionals and high school students trying to burnish their resumes, seem delighted -- and a little awestruck -- to be part of such an efficient operation.
 ''I like the professionalism of it,'' said Mary Malone Mills, a hospital office manager from Brooklyn. Lennox Bayne, 69, a retiree, conceded that the campaign might look like overkill, but said it had opened his eyes to professional politics and kept him ''plenty busy.'' 
 The campaign has found ways to make the experience interesting. Volunteers are briefed by senior campaign officials, and get early glimpses of TV ads. There are internal competitions, for the most volunteer hours or referrals to friends. (The prize: lunch with the mayor.)
 And there is food: a snack table at every campaign office, filled with Snyder's Pretzels, Nature Valley granola bars and Chips Ahoy cookies. So far, volunteers have knocked on more than 600,000 doors -- including that of Ms. Casey in Queens, who told the canvassers that she would ''definitely support'' Mr. Bloomberg'' -- and made 238,000 phone calls to voters.
 Those calling voters at home read from a menu of scripts, depending on whether the person is a huge fan of Mr. Bloomberg (No. 1), a lukewarm supporter (2), undecided (3), leaning against him (4) or ready to toss him out of office (5). 
 Volunteers encountering a No. 1 are instructed to say: ''Great! Thanks for your support!'' As for a No. 3: '' O.K. We will check in periodically to share news and information.''
 If voters are not home, volunteers are forbidden, for now, to leave voice-mail messages, lest the campaign seem impersonal. Instead, they hand-write letters on Bloomberg stationery. 
 The campaign does not give up easily. When a Queens resident, reached by phone, told a campaign worker by phone that the mayor was ''racist'' for not giving schoolchildren Islamic holidays off, the field director, Maura Keaney, sitting nearby, suggested: ''We'll have one of our Muslim volunteers follow up with him.'' 
 The campaign has created literature for what seems like every niche group and ethnic bloc in the city, recruiting speakers of Yiddish, Farsi, Guyanese, Haitian and Tagalog, to name a few. 
 And it has created software that shows when every volunteer is available, and can instantly generate e-mail reminders to, say, show up at an event in Brooklyn at 5 p.m. on Sunday. 
 The gee-whiz technology has left even veteran operatives grasping for superlatives. 
 ''You'd think they are running a presidential campaign -- it's unbelievable,'' said Phil Ragusa, the chairman of the Queens Republican Party.
 After Eishelle Tillery, a 36-year-old social worker from Harlem, signed up online to hold a small house party, the campaign mailed her a thick ''party package'' containing Bloomberg-for-mayor posters, stickers, pins, a DVD (featuring Sinatra singing ''New York, New York'') and instructions about how to organize the evening.
 ''As guests arrive,'' it suggests, ''distribute stickers.''
 Soon, the campaign called to ask if she had held the party. Not yet, Ms. Tillery said. So it then sent her Bloomberg-for-mayor handheld fans.
 ''I figured that after I signed up, they'd forget about me,'' she said. ''But they kept checking in.'' When Ms. Tillery finally held the party, her house resembled a campaign office, festooned with Bloomberg signs and stickers.
 And all the nagging left an impression. ''It made me want to vote for him again,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Student volunteers at Bloomberg campaign headquarters in Flushing, Queens, hand-writing letters to constituents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Raiyat Binzamon, 12, works the evening phones. The Bloomberg campaign has recruited thousands of volunteers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 James Feng, 18, and Debbie March, 17, volunteers for the Bloomberg re-election campaign, going door to door in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BONDS (70%); HISTORY (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009



703 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: An Overhaul Or a Tweak For Pensions

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
After more than three years of deliberations, the board that sets the accounting rules for state and city governments is still far away from issuing a new standard for public pension funds. 
 What may seem like tedious labors over technical matters can have a large impact on public employees, taxpayers and investors. Many municipalities around the country are grappling with serious shortfalls in their pension funds caused by the recession and other woes. 
 Since the deliberations began, San Diego's finances have been rocked by a pension scandal; Vallejo, Calif., has filed for bankruptcy after promising costly benefits; and New Jersey has warned that it lacks the cash to comply with its actuary's instructions. 
 The panel, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, heard impassioned testimony on Wednesday on the need to make public pension numbers more straightforward, more closely mirroring the pension accounting for corporations. But proponents of an overhaul were countered at every step by state officials and others who testified that broad changes were unnecessary and would disrupt budgets by introducing market volatility. 
 The board, an independent nonprofit organization that sets the accounting standards for governments, has said that the next step will be the publication, by next May, of a ''due process document'' to offer possible changes in the rules. That will engender a new round of public comment and revisions, and eventually a new pension accounting standard. The process is expected to take several more years.
 ''I have concerns that these efforts may, in fact, be too late,'' one speaker, Diann Shipione, told the board. She said that the existing accounting rules were too loose, allowing ''pension mischief'' to go on for many years. 
 ''As a result of the fuzziness and imprecision,'' she said, ''we now have many large systems that are essentially insolvent.'' 
 Ms. Shipione, a former trustee of the San Diego city pension fund, eventually became a whistle-blower, insisting that the fund's financial reporting was false, constituting securities fraud. After a long legal battle, the Securities and Exchange Commission agreed with her. She is now earning a master's degree in public administration at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. 
 Ms. Shipione told the accounting board that she thought revisions were needed to make it easier to see when states and cities were falling behind on their pension contributions, which she hoped would prompt them to pump more money into the plans. 
 But some members of the board took issue with her goals. William W. Holder, one member of the accounting board, told Ms. Shipione that the board's duty was to write rules that produced accurate and informative financial reports -- not to promote desirable activities like funding pension plans more robustly. 
 ''We try to avoid bias in setting accounting standards,'' he said. ''What we don't try to do is develop some preconceived notion of what that behavior would be, and then write a standard that would encourage it.'' 
 In the corporate world, the Financial Accounting Standards Board writes the rules for pension disclosures. It also seeks to avoid bias, and also works at a slow, deliberative pace. 
 But FASB has a great deal more power and independence than its governmental cousin. Its rules are enforced by the S.E.C., and it was given an independent funding source in the post-Enron accounting reforms. The corporate pension accounting rules came under harsh criticism at the beginning of this decade, and the FASB has already issued some revisions. Others are still in the works. 
 The governmental board, by contrast, must still raise its own money. And because no government agency enforces its policies, it must issue rules that states and municipalities will adopt voluntarily. Six of its seven members work on a part-time basis. 
 Others who spoke on Wednesday sought to assure the accounting board that its existing rules were sound. They acknowledged that some governments had had pension debacles in the last few years but said that was because they did not follow the rules. 
 Robert A. Wylie, executive director of the South Dakota Retirement System, said that pension woes were largely absent in his state and that his plan had a well-established funding policy. 
 Mr. Wylie said South Dakota had the ability to reduce promised benefits when times were tight, something forbidden by statute or constitution in many other states. Because of this flexibility, he said, South Dakota had always been able to keep its contributions in line with its benefits. For a state like South Dakota, he said, the existing pension rules were ''very workable.''
 ''Major changes may add to what would be, in our mind, confusion,'' he said. 
 Questions posed by the board members suggested they were leaning toward making narrow changes in the existing rules, like shortening amortization schedules or reducing the number of actuarial methods that plans may use. They did not seem eager to grapple with the question of which discount rate to use to measure public pension obligations -- the biggest issue in the minds of critics of the current rules. 
 A recent study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that the discount rates now in use were masking a pension shortfall of $1.2 trillion at the state level. 
 The questions from the board members also suggested that they were interested in making public pension funds more comparable to each other. The current accounting rules allow so much flexibility that comparisons can be unfair. 
 Jeremy Gold, an actuary and economist who testified at Wednesday's meeting, said he expected that when the new standard was finally issued, it would improve the comparability of pension plans. 
 ''The center of gravity is still in favor of sharper pencils, rather than a whole new way of doing things,'' said Mr. Gold, who called for radical changes. ''This will make Texas, California and New Jersey all comparable while they go to hell in a handbasket.'' 
 The accounting board will reconvene in Washington on Friday for additional testimony.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Attmore, chairman of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which is years into a review of pension rules.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA QUINONES PHOTOGRAPHY)
 Diann Shipione, who was a whistle-blower in San Diego, called for clearer guidelines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS POROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); SCANDALS (75%); DUE PROCESS (74%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



704 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 MOROCCO, A LIBERAL BEACON, DIMS IN FACE OF RADICALISM
 Morocco has long been viewed as a rare modernizing Islamic state that is open to the West. But under pressure from Islamic extremists, the pace of change has slowed. PAGE A4 
 CHINA STARTS ORGAN SYSTEM 
 The new voluntary organ donor program is meant to overhaul a system where millions of people have no hope of a transplant. PAGE A4 
 FRENCHMAN ESCAPES SOMALIS
 It all came down to a forgotten bolt. Marc Aubriere, a French security adviser held hostage in Somalia by Islamist militants for a month, recounted his escape. PAGE A4 
 ARGENTINA SHIFTING ON DRUGS
 The Supreme Court of Argentina has opened a path to depenalizing the private consumption of drugs that are now illegal. PAGE A6 
 POWER BROKER IN IRAQ DIES
 The death of Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, one of the towering political figures of post-Saddam Hussein Iraq, was a blow to his party, the Supreme Iraqi Islamic Council. PAGE A6 
 National
 2 NEW TRUSTEES ARE NAMED AFTER SCANDAL AT UNIVERSITY
 The governor of Illinois appointed new trustees in the wake of a report that found admissions at the University of Illinois favored the wealthy and well connected. PAGE A11
 LEADING LABOR INTO DEBATE
 Dennis Rivera, once New York's mightiest labor leader, is leading a push for health care reform at the Service Employees International Union. PAGE A12
 CUTBACKS IN VOLUNTEER WORK
 A survey found that Americans volunteered less as the recession took hold. Civic participation rose during previous downturns. PAGE A11
 New York
 CRACK DOWN ON FOOD CARTS 
 Outside the Met
 In what appeared to be a coordinated crackdown on the proliferation of food vendors -- many of them disabled veterans -- outside the Metropolitan Museum of Art, police officers swooped down on Fifth Avenue and began issuing hefty summonses. PAGE A24
 Business
 TOYOTA COMES OUT ON TOP
 In Clunkers Program
 The Transportation Department said that participants in the ''cash for clunkers'' program bought 690,000 new vehicles. The biggest winner was Toyota, which accounted for 19 percent of all sales and had two of the top three best-selling models. PAGE B1
 TRYING TO LURE BANK BUYERS
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Commission adopted new rules to lure private equity capital off the sidelines. But several private equity firms said that the relaxed rules were still too restrictive to encourage them to bid on potentially hundreds of troubled banks. PAGE B1
 BACKING TROUBLED ASSETS
 The French investment bank Natixis said that its partly state-owned parent company would guarantee about $50 billion in troubled assets on its books, in what amounts to a government-engineered reinforcement of its finances. PAGE B8
 AN INCREASE IN HOME SALES
 Sales of new homes surged nearly 10 percent in July from a month earlier, another indicator that the country's long-suffering housing market was starting to turn around. PAGE B3
 ADS ON MILK CARTONS
 Hoping to reach children at school and shoppers at the store, a growing number of national brands are turning to an old medium: milk cartons. Advertising by Philip Gray. PAGE B3
 Sports
 PAVING THE WAY 
 For Vick's N.F.L. Comeback
 Joel Segal, the agent for Michael Vick, has coordinated all aspects of Vick's overhaul, as part of a team of professionals who cocooned the player who was conditionally reinstated by the N.F.L. after spending 18 months in jail for his role in a dog-fighting ring. PAGE B12
 ADJUSTING TO FIT THE TIMES
 Baseball caps remain the standard-bearer of the sports apparel market, and New Era, the country's largest sports hat maker and the official provider of on-field caps to Major League Baseball, is trying to adapt to changing tastes and tightening purse strings. PAGE B12
 MINAYA'S IMAGE TAKES A HIT
 The way Mets General Manager Omar Minaya has handled several high-profile personnel decisions has created unflattering public perceptions of both him and the Mets, which is problematic for an image-conscious organization that is sensitive to criticism. PAGE B13
 Arts
 HOW THEY SPENT
 Their Summer Vacation
 The four big-name actors in the acclaimed play ''God of Carnage'' -- Hope Davis, Jeff Daniels, Marcia Gay Harden and James Gandolfini -- were given a six-week vacation to decompress from the rigors of a Broadway schedule and recreating a farce about marital discord several times a week. They spent their time off in very different ways. PAGE C1
 Styles
 UNLIKELY DESIGNERS,
 The Olsens Find Success
 The Olsen twins have succeeded with two different fashion labels simultaneously -- The Row and the hip, less expensive Elizabeth and James -- and without formal design training. PAGE D1
 Obituaries
 DOMINICK DUNNE, 83
 He gave up producing movies in midlife and reinvented himself as a best-selling author, magazine writer, television personality and reporter whose celebrity often outshone that of his subject. PAGE B11
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PRIVATE EQUITY (88%); REAL ESTATE (86%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); ORGAN DONATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); INSURANCE (69%); CONSUMPTION (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (67%); HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); PARENT COMPANIES (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); BANK FAILURES (65%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (62%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (60%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIXIS SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%)

TICKER: KN (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) SOMALIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); MOROCCO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



705 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: In Clubhouse's Glass and Steel, a Feel of Urban Cool

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
Liberty National, the host of the 2009 Barclays, is different from most private golf clubs in the New York metropolitan area. 
 Some things about it are intuitively backward. For example, Sundays are often the slowest days. The number of rounds played drops in July and August. It is busiest during weekdays.
 ''It was designed to look, feel and operate like a city club,'' said Dan Fireman, who financed the construction of Liberty National with his father, Paul. ''It's not Shinnecock or some other Long Island club where people play because they have a weekend home near there. The draw of Liberty National is its close proximity to New York City.'' 
 With the New York skyline as a background, and with ferry service between the club and Manhattan, Liberty National has cultivated its urban image. To that end, when the Firemans looked to build a clubhouse, they eschewed a traditional wood or stone structure similar to those at suburban or coastal golf clubs.
 The $60 million clubhouse created on a New Jersey peninsula is glass and steel, and it reflects and blends with the Manhattan buildings it faces. Designed by the New York architectural firm Lindsay Newman, the building also has a nautical feel, which is far from unintentional given its setting. Its dining rooms, lounges, sitting areas and even the locker rooms have an outward focus, with views of New York Harbor through 32-foot glass-curtain walls.
 The interior coloring is muted, with warm neutrals.
 ''We wanted to let the harbor be the main color,'' the architect John Newman said.
 At a cost of $250 million, Liberty National may be the most expensive golf course ever built. It has a private membership initiation fee of $500,000, although the annual dues ($25,000) are fairly modest for an elite golf club.
 ''It's a different kind of club,'' said Liberty National's general manager, Martel Meyer. ''It starts with how you get here. Many people use the ferry from Manhattan. We have members who arrive at 6:30 in the morning to play golf, and they're at their desks back on the island by 9:30.''
 Meyer added: ''We don't have a big ballroom like other clubs. We don't encourage tee times or dinner reservations. Everything is on request. We want the members to feel like they can show up unannounced. It's about the personal experience. If a member has a preference for a certain cut of meat, we will try to keep that meat available.''
 So far, Meyer said, the club has about 90 members, including Giants quarterback Eli Manning and the former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Meyer said the goal was closer to 250 members. There is also a real estate component planned for the site.
 Dan Fireman conceded that the 2006 opening of such a high-end club could have been better timed, given the economy. But he said only two members had resigned. And while other clubs are cutting or eliminating initiation fees to attract members, Liberty National raised its fee this year from $450,000. Members can, however, finance that payment over a few years.
 ''Sure, we wish we had started this 15 years ago,'' Fireman said. ''But we didn't do this through leverage; we did this with cash. We can weather these storms. We've got an incredible product, and it's going to continue to get great exposure. We'll take advantage of the next couple of real estate cycles. In time, this will be worth more than we paid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The public spaces in the clubhouse at Liberty National were oriented to take advantage of sweeping views of New York's harbor and the Manhattan skyline. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); GOLF (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); FERRIES (75%); ATHLETES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



706 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: For Building Ties to a Sport, A Platform Worth Every Penny

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Nike and Callaway. Bridgestone and Buick. Lexus and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 When it comes to golf, some companies and brands are so ubiquitous that they have blended into the landscape, like the tees, fairways and greens.
 But during the last three years, FedEx has tried harder than almost any company to stand out. Since 2007, the package delivery company has spent $44 million a year to sponsor the FedEx Cup, a full season of PGA Tour events culminating with a four-tournament playoff series to determine the top men's golfer.
 In many ways, the sponsorship is similar to the Nascar Sprint Cup or the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour: an attempt by a major corporation to become one with an entire sport, not just a player or a single event. 
 But in other ways, the FedEx Cup is different. Golf is a more understated sport than Nascar or tennis in that it tends to keep sponsors' messages muted or at arm's length. Television commercials are low key, signage is more discreet and logos are modest.
 That does not seem to bother FedEx, whose first foray into sports marketing was in 1986 with the St. Jude Classic, a golf tournament in Memphis. Like other major golf sponsors, FedEx is trying to reach executives and other corporate decision makers, hoping they will choose FedEx over U.P.S. or the Postal Service. The most avid golf fans, it turns out, include those executives.
 The PGA Tour has golfers from around the world and its events are broadcast worldwide, both of which attracted FedEx.
 ''This appealed to us because FedEx is a global company, and we needed to communicate to our customers on a global stage,'' said Kevin Demsky, the director of sponsorship marketing at FedEx, whose six-year deal with the PGA Tour runs through 2012.
 Demsky said FedEx earned positive return on its investment, but he declined to be more specific. Large corporations typically generate three or more dollars in new sales for every dollar spent sponsoring sporting events, according to industry experts.
 For a company like FedEx, which is recognized by executives and consumers, sponsoring a long-running event makes sense because it provides wide, extended exposure. 
 ''It's a way to get your name out there on a consistent basis without having to latch on to a particular player who might get in trouble, or a single event that Tiger might not show up to,'' said Bob Dorfman, who writes a newsletter that analyzes athlete endorsements. ''It's insurance you're going to get a lot of brand value for your dollar.''
 Golf might seem an odd choice for FedEx. The company's image is one of speed, while golf is known for its slow pace. But FedEx also promotes its reliability and consistency, traits that successful golfers need, said Bill Sutton, a professor of sports business at the University of Central Florida.
 FedEx's affiliation with the PGA Tour, though, is not as well known as Sprint's relationship with Nascar. Sprint is embedded in the fabric of Nascar, which relies on the company to help run its events, including news conferences before and after races. Sprint has also designed audio and video applications for cellphones to help fans follow the races.
 ''We've tried to make it much more than banners, tickets and hospitality,'' said Dave Mellin, a Sprint spokesman.
 During live telecasts and replays of Nascar events last year, Sprint's name or logo was shown on screen for a total of 90 hours 6 minutes 21 seconds, according to Joyce Julius & Associates, a sports marketing research firm. The Sprint name was mentioned 1,476 times during those broadcasts -- more than twice as often as the next brand, Toyota.
 ''Nascar is the top dog in terms of exposure,'' said Eric Wright, a vice president at Joyce Julius, who added that the tally did not include Sprint's name being mentioned on highlight programs or news broadcasts.
 Still, FedEx is getting its money's worth because the demographic of golf fans matches the audience it wants to reach. FedEx also gets to be associated with winning players, even though it does not have an endorsement deal with a player.
 And in a recession, when other companies are backing out of sports sponsorships, FedEx is sending a message.
 ''They are telling the public that they are worth their attention,'' Sutton said. ''It's the people who back away and hide, the world will pass them by.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FedEx's sponsorship links it to Vijay Singh, top, in the same way Sony Ericsson benefits from the high profile of Maria Sharapova and Sprint does with its ties to Nascar drivers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN AMIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
GETTY IMAGES FOR SONY ERICSSON
 HARRY HOW/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: COMPARING SPONSORSHIPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); BRANDING (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (75%); RUNNING (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (72%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MARIA SHARAPOVA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



707 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Tops List of Cash-for-Clunkers Winners

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The cash-for-clunkers program turned out to be a boon for Asian automakers and the small cars they specialize in.
 While American government officials hailed the monthlong program, which ended this week, as an overall stimulus to the economy, the biggest winner was Toyota, which accounted for 19 percent of all sales and had two of the top three best-selling models. 
 The Transportation Department said Wednesday that participants in the clunkers program bought 690,000 new vehicles. About $2.9 billion of the program's $3 billion was distributed in government vouchers, which were worth $3,500 to $4,500 toward new-car purchases. 
 Detroit's three automakers -- General Motors, Ford and Chrysler -- accounted for 38.6 percent of the vehicles sold. That figure is substantially less than the 45 percent combined market share that the Detroit companies posted in the first seven months of the year.
 Japan's largest automakers -- Toyota, Honda and Nissan -- sold 41 percent of the new vehicles in the program, compared with the 34 percent combined share they had through July of this year. The Toyota Corolla was the top seller, followed by the Honda Civic, Toyota Camry, Ford Focus and Hyundai Elantra.
 Not a single model from G.M. or Chrysler made the top 10 list, although G.M. came in second in overall clunker sales.
 The success of Toyota and the other Asian automakers was driven by the type of cars in their showrooms. Participants in the clunkers program clearly were interested in downsizing to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. About 84 percent of the clunkers traded in were trucks, and 59 percent of the vehicles purchased were cars.
 Toyota and Honda have been the longtime leaders in sales of small and midsize cars in the United States. So it was hardly surprising that Corollas and Civics flew off dealer lots during the program.
 ''Consumers gravitated to cars known for reliability and fuel-efficiency,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Global Insight.
 The interest in small cars, however, could be a hopeful sign for the American auto companies as well.
 Ford is betting that consumer tastes will continue to shift away from big vehicles, and is bringing out new versions of the Focus and Fiesta subcompact. G.M. and Chrysler have indicated that their postbankruptcy dealer showrooms will feature more small cars -- and fewer trucks.
 Over all, the clunker program will have an impact on lowering fuel consumption, albeit a small one given the number of vehicles involved. The average fuel economy of the vehicles turned in was just under 16 miles per gallon, compared with an average of almost 25 miles per gallon for vehicles bought in the program.
 The top vehicles traded in, like the Ford Explorer and Jeep Grand Cherokee, were among the most popular of the sport utility era of the 1990s.
 ''This is a win for the economy, a win for the environment, and a win for American consumers,'' said the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood.
 A preliminary analysis of the program by the Obama administration said that third-quarter economic growth has been 0.4 percent higher because of auto sales in July and August. In addition, G.M., Ford and Honda all announced that they would increase production at some United States plants because of the increased demand generated by cash for clunkers.
 Virtually every automaker reported increased showroom traffic because of the program. Just getting prospective buyers back into dealerships brought some measure of relief to an industry stuck in its worst sales slump in 25 years.
 ''It's almost like people were coming out of their caves, and seeing that it was safe to go back into the showrooms,'' said George Pipas, chief market analyst for Ford.
 Industry analysts said the surge in interest would be followed by a letdown now that the program is over.
 ''Cash for clunkers distorted the market in a way that benefited the industry for four weeks,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, chief executive of the auto-research Web site Edmunds.com. ''Now the payback begins.''
 Mr. Anwyl predicted that consumers might face higher prices on some models that were depleted by clunker sales. Also, manufacturers have little incentive to provide their own sales incentives because inventories are low.
 Still, the program injected some life into the dismal auto market. Some analysts are forecasting that August sales will be higher than a year ago, marking the first year-over-year monthly increase since 2007.
 ''The program did exactly what it was designed to do -- stimulate our economy,'' said Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keys to a fleet of cash-for-clunkers trade-ins at Lee Toyota in Topsham, Me.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT WELLENBACH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B1)
 A clunker that was traded in on the lot of Koons Nissan in Falls Church, Va., on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. B4) CHART: The Replacements: Although the Detroit automakers accounted for 38.6 percent of the vehicles sold under the cash-forclunkers program, that was less than their 45 percent market share through July this year.(Source: Department of Transportation)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); MARKET SHARE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



708 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2085 words

HEADLINE: The House of Your Dreams

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
AMERICANS aren't just living the real estate collapse. They're dreaming it.
 Foreclosure, eviction and an uncertain real estate market are providing material for disturbing dreams and nightmares about home, which has an especially powerful place in the psyche, psychologists say, symbolizing safety, comfort, identity and -- to the Freudians -- mother.
 At a time of collective angst and fear of economic insecurity, psychologists say more patients are recounting stressful dreams that revolve around the theme of home. Fear of homelessness, they say, is one of the most primal feelings on the emotional spectrum. A deep sense of disillusionment, betrayal and mistrust resulting from the mortgage and banking crises is also pervasive.
 ''People are trying to make sense of this big unknowable, overwhelming, insecure world,'' said Henry M. Seiden, a psychologist in New York who published a paper in April, ''On the Longing for Home,'' in the journal Psychoanalytic Psychology, arguing that the concept of home has not drawn enough focus from academics in the field, beyond the classic Freudian interpretations. 
 While some people ignore the messages in their dreams, others look to them for guidance.
 Susanna Cohen, 31, a nurse practitioner and midwife in Salt Lake City, was feeling spooked by the mortgage crisis and began having disturbing dreams in May, while contemplating buying her first home. Many were about people forced to live in places they didn't want to live.
 ''I had heightened anxiety because of everything that's happened,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''Was this an appropriate investment for me to be making at this point? Am I going to look back in five years and find out that I'm in a similar situation as all these other people who have had their houses foreclosed? And I didn't know if I wanted to be part of a system that is so morally corrupt.''
 After deciding to make a bid last month, she was torn over what to offer for the house, a two-bedroom brick bungalow listed at $250,000. She said she felt some obligation to make a bid that was fair to the seller, but she feared overbidding, and wished she had some way of finding out about the seller's finances.
 Then she had a dream that she saw the seller's mortgage statement and that he owed $80,000 on the house. She woke up, she said, thinking that her bid, which she did not want to disclose, was fair, and so she made the offer.
 As the negotiations continued, she had several more vivid dreams, some reassuring her that her hunches were leading her down the right path and others involving danger, fear and what she interpreted as cautionary messages.
 The night after she made the bid, she dreamed she was sitting on the porch of the house eating ice cream with a friend, when they decided they wanted root beer floats. They walked over to a nearby supermarket and, as she was standing at the vending machine, an aggressive and threatening man approached. Another man appeared to save her, but he ended up stabbing her in the arm with a hypodermic needle, and she slowly slumped to the ground.
 She made eye contact with a passer-by and called for help, and then woke up. She was left with the feeling that, like the men in her dream, all the players involved in her real estate deal -- the agents and the seller -- were out for themselves, and she wasn't protecting herself.
 ''I'm not shy about the fact that I let my dreams influence my behavior,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''The times in my life that I have discounted a dream because I felt, 'Oh, that's just a dream,' it comes back to bite me. But that's sort of my internal struggle: trying to figure out which of these dreams do I allow myself to believe in.''
 The day after her dream about being stabbed with a needle, she heard from her real estate agent that there was another offer on the house. She wrote a letter to the seller expressing her appreciation for the house and its history, promising to maintain its original details and charm. 
 He countered with the same offer the other bidder had made, $230,000, and she accepted, but then he decided to go with the other buyer anyway, and she was crushed.
 In the end, she said, it was not her dreams, but the people involved in the negotiations that led her astray. After she decided on a bid, the broker delayed the meeting where she was going to make the offer by several days, Ms. Cohen said. During that time, the owner held an open house, inviting the other bidders into the picture. 
 Still, ''It is an inanimate object after all,'' she said. ''So I will recover.''
 WHILE many ancient cultures have used dreams as guideposts, the practice has not been as common in modern times. But a surprising study published last March found that more people see dreams as informative than had previously been believed.
 The study, ''When Dreaming Is Believing: The (Motivated) Interpretation of Dreams,'' by Michael I. Norton and Carey K. Morewedge, researchers from Harvard and Carnegie Mellon, involved a survey of 1,000 people in the United States, South Korea and India, including engineering students from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who, the researchers suspected, would be less likely to give weight to their dreams.
 They found that most of the participants believed their dreams contained more meaningful information about the world than similar thoughts they had while awake. And, generally, the dreams people had confirmed their beliefs and biases about the subjects of their dreams. 
 The study was done amid a long-running debate between scientists and dream psychologists about whether dreams are a result of the brain sputtering out random impulses, anxieties and data, or are meaningful barometers of emotion and a source of insight into real-life conflicts.
 Paul Thomas, 47, who sells motorcycles at a Harley Davidson dealership in Stamford, Conn., said he had a series of dreams that helped him decide what to do about his housing situation. 
 In 2006, he and his wife moved from Stamford to Brooklyn, where he took a job in the restaurant business, and she found one in banking. Soon, they got into a legal battle with their landlord over problems in their apartment building, including lack of heat, water leaks and the building's legal status. The court ruled in their favor, asking them to pay one month's rent and leave by the end of 2007, but they were not out by the deadline and were evicted. 
 The city marshal showed up at 7:30 one morning, giving them 15 minutes to move out all their belongings. While they stayed at a neighbor's house, Mr. Thomas said, he dreamed that he was begging outside a coffee shop in Union Square, holding a bucket and a sign that said he was homeless. ''I've never been homeless in my life,'' he said. ''This feeling in my dream was such panic and such hopelessness.''
 They found another apartment in the same neighborhood, but two months later, a court officer appeared on a Saturday morning with a notice of foreclosure on the building intended for the landlord, who lived at another address. They moved again, only to discover that their new landlord was constructing what appeared to be an illegal apartment in the basement, and was working on the gas and electricity lines. They complained and a nasty confrontation ensued.
 At this point, Mr. Thomas had a nightmare that was both frightening and highly entertaining. In the dream, he was looking out a window of the apartment, which was surrounded by cartoon and movie villains -- Yosemite Sam, the Penguin and the Riddler from Batman -- with guns, and was shooting at them through the window.
 When they started advancing toward the house, he ran upstairs, where hiswife was waiting with his ''troops'' -- the cast of ''Sex and the City,'' and Cat Woman from the 1960's TV show ''Batman,'' who was, he said, ''always on the edge of good and evil,'' but in the dream was a force for good. The dream made him laugh, but it also ''reinforced the fact that I knew I had to get out of there,'' he said. ''My dream mind was telling me if you don't get out of there, you are going to be shot at, at some point. The landlord was boiling mad.''
 They returned to Stamford and are now looking for a house to buy.
 In recent years, the field of dream psychology has begun giving more credence to the dreamer's interpretation, rather than the analyst's. According to Ellen Y. Siegelman, a Jungian psychoanalyst in Berkeley, Calif., patients in therapy often find that dreams of home, in particular, offer a way to chart their progress.
 ''I've seen people in therapy go from dreams at the beginning of houses falling down, needing to be propped up or in disrepair,'' Dr. Siegelman said. ''If you follow the sequence in dreams, quite often at the end, there are dreams of houses fixed up, new light and extra rooms. That's an interesting marker of where somebody is psychologically.''
 MANY psychologists caution against taking dreams about houses too literally. 
 ''Things are not necessarily what they seem to be,'' said Gemma Marangoni Ainslie, a neo-Freudian psychoanalyst in Austin, Tex., who, like many other therapists, sees recurring dreams as clues about personal struggles and ongoing conflicts.
 For nearly 15 years, Cara Letofsky, 45, a housing policy aide to Mayor R. T. Rybak of Minneapolis, had a recurring dream that she was moving into a new apartment with her college roommates. After all the roommates had chosen their rooms, they suddenly discovered an extra one, something that caused a feeling of anxiety and loss of control, because order was disrupted -- what would they do with the extra room? 
 No matter what her living situation, the dreams continued: when she was living in New York, getting a master's degree, when she was single, when she moved to Minneapolis, got married, bought a house with her husband and had children, now 6 and 9.
 Finally, a few years ago, when she and her husband completed a renovation, adding a guest room and a storage room and expanding the kitchen and master bedroom, the dreams stopped.
 ''I was still seeking this place that was home to me,'' she said. ''I was still seeking the emotional security of a physical space. Even though I had one, it didn't have the marker of being mine until the house was finished.''
 The fear of intrusions like burglaries can also produce vivid dreams, psychologists say.
 Pamela Mink, 46, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University in Atlanta, had recurring dreams about calling 911 after someone had broken into the house she rented there. In some of the dreams, she said, the 911 operators were speaking languages she could not understand; in one, she was swearing at the operator, who told her that if she kept cursing she would get no help.
 Dr. Mink had other recurring dreams that were less obvious in their symbolism -- most notably, one about her father burying bodies in the garden, which she began having when she was a child. In the dreams, she said, she never knew whom he was burying, and never asked.
 She said she has not discussed the dreams, which are more mysterious than scary, with a therapist. But around the time of her father's death, in 1996, she had the final version of the dream, perhaps resolving a conflict or revealing something she did not know about her father, but certainly solving a mystery played out in her unconscious. 
 Around this time, in her waking life, she said, she asked her father a lot of questions because he was dying, and in the last dream, she tried to get him to tell her whom he was burying. 
 In the dream, there was a coffin laid on a large, thick sheet of ice. At first, her father refused to tell her who was inside, saying only that it was someone famous. Then, after swearing her to secrecy, he agreed to tell her, revealing it was Frank Lloyd Wright.
 She asked him repeatedly why he was burying the architect in their garden, and then said, ''Wait a minute, is this because you think your property value will go up?'' Her father gave her a knowing smile, and she glanced up at her bedroom and saw a Chinese man in a red silk robe staring at them.
 ''There was something very ceremonial about the whole thing, and the property value thing was weird,'' she said. ''My dad wasn't a financial mogul, he was a college professor,'' a psychologist who ran a sleep lab. 
 The dream ended as she and her siblings sang Simon and Garfunkel's ''So Long, Frank Lloyd Wright,'' while her father worked in the garden. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOSSING AND TURNING: Stressful dreams about the home often deal with personal struggles or with the unstable economy and housing market. Susanna Cohen, left, began having economy-related dreams in May while considering her first home purchase and eventually lost out in a bidding war. Cara Letofsky, above, dreamed that she had an unused room for years until she and her husband finished a renovation. Paul Thomas, below, had dreams -- one with Yosemite Sam and Cat Woman -- that helped him decide what to do about his housing situation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN NICHOLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
SARA JORDE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D7) DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY RICHARD TUSCHMAN) (pg.D1 and D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); EVICTION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (76%); BANK FAILURES (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



709 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Adjusting to Fit the Times

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: DERBY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The hundreds of embroiderers and stitchers hunched over clattering sewing machines at the New Era Cap factory could be forgiven for thinking these are good times. After all, they churn out 72,000 baseball hats a week, about seven a minute.
 But modesty has been a byword this recession, and baseball caps are no exception. Consumers are opting for Corollas over Cadillacs, Formica kitchen counters over granite and, it turns out, hats with traditional designs over garish ones.
 ''We're seeing a very jittery landscape,'' said Peter Augustine, the president of New Era, which has its headquarters in Buffalo, 20 miles north of the factory here. ''People are trying to stick to their most conservative plans. Even Yankee hats are down despite the year they are having.''
 Sales have slipped 10 percent so far this year at New Era, a privately held company that is the country's largest sports hat maker and the official provider of on-field caps to Major League Baseball. In the past week, the company has laid off 27 workers at its warehouse in Mobile, Ala., and 40 percent of its workers at its factories in the state because of low demand. Some of them could be rehired when production recovers. 
 Still, industry experts say that this is only a pause in the hat market, which has more than doubled in the past decade, when $35 fitted baseball caps became must-haves. Baseball caps remain the standard-bearer of the sports apparel market, and New Era, like its competitors, is trying to adapt to changing tastes and tightening purse strings.
 The company has been pushing its Authentic line of caps worn by the pros. While brassy designs have slowed, sales of simpler designs, like hats with various solid colors, remain strong. Sales of flat-brim caps are also popular in fashion circles.
 New Era is also pushing into Japan, China and Europe and expanding its product line to include designer T-shirts. This month New Era bought 5th & Ocean, a women's apparel company in Miami with $30 million in annual sales and an M.L.B. license.
 ''They can turn on a dime,'' said Marshal Cohen, an industry analyst at the market research firm NPD Group. ''One of the advantages of the hat business is they don't have to produce the product long in advance. They don't dictate the trend, they just adapt to it.''
 New Era has been adapting since it opened in 1920. The company made its first baseball caps in 1932 and two years later won its first contract with a professional team, the Cleveland Indians. In the 1940s, Honus Wagner asked for a made-to-order cap to fit his rather large head. Soon after, New Era introduced adjustable caps.
 New Era introduced the iconic 59Fifty model in 1954. Within two decades, all but four major league teams were wearing the company's hats. In 1993, New Era became the exclusive manufacturer of M.L.B. players' caps.
 But it was an unsolicited call from Spike Lee in 1996 that redefined New Era and the hat market. Lee asked New Era to make a red New York Yankees cap, heretical at the time. The company complied and, thanks to Lee's visibility, the caps became an instant hit. Soon, Yankees caps in every conceivable color were in demand.
 ''New Era is almost its own category, like the way Nike has done in cornering the market for sneakers,'' said Aaron Jones, a merchandise manager at DrJays.com, an apparel retailer. ''I've tried the same types of fitted hats from other companies, and they don't move in the same way.''
 Because logos are stored on computers at the company's plants in Derby, in Alabama and overseas, New Era can make hats that combine almost any color, pattern or fabric. This makes it easier to react to the latest fad, which nowadays includes purple, green and the old standbys red and black, the colors of Michael Jordan's uniform when he played for the Chicago Bulls. 
 The circular gold sticker affixed to the visor has become an icon, too. Designed to replace tags with the cap's size, the sticker left on the visor has become a way to show the world that the wearer has money to burn. They are such a status symbol that Lids, the hat store chain, tells its workers not to remove them at the checkout counter.
 New Era releases new designs at least five times a year, yet it often plays catch-up. For its Authentic hats, New Era added a black sticker that covered the entire brim and could be peeled away to leave the gold circle behind. Yet customers are leaving the entire sticker on, presumably to broadcast that they are wearing a more expensive cap.
 New Era's custom caps have been worn by gang members, so the company works with the Buffalo Police Department and the F.B.I. to avoid unwittingly supplying them. In 2007, for instance, the company said it would remove headwear with the colors and symbols of three gangs -- the Bloods, the Crips and the Latin Kings -- after protests over the sale of the caps at stores in East Harlem.
 The company's bread and butter, though, remains the caps worn by the players and the fans who want to look like them. Each year, Dave Aichinger from New Era visits every clubhouse in the majors to make sure the players have enough caps. These days, the biggest issue for the players is the height of the crown. Younger players like a lower crown while older players prefer a higher one.
 Some players pull out the white gauze that absorbs sweat on the inside of the cap. Other players want their hats to have a starched look. Some players consider it bad luck when extra decals are added to commemorate anniversaries.
 ''It's all about tradition and superstition,'' Aichinger said.
 Each team has a credit through M.L.B. to buy caps. The Boston Red Sox, one of the more superstitious teams, rarely change a thing, while the Pittsburgh Pirates issue new caps almost every month, Aichinger said. Roger Clemens used to change his caps several times a game to stay dry, while Orel Hershiser used to paint the underside of his visor black to help him focus.
 The players have enormous influence on the marketplace, whether it's a well-worn cap made famous by John Wetteland or the caps with earflaps that became popular after the Philadelphia Phillies and the Tampa Bay Rays wore them in last year's World Series.
 Yankees caps, though, outsell all others by a 3-to-1 margin, not only because of the team's success on the field but also because the logo has such broad appeal.
 Still, the Yankees rank near the bottom of the league in at least one category: the number of stitches in the team's logo. It takes 2,688 stitches for the interlocking NY, fourth least in the league after the Pirates, the Phillies and the Cubs. The most complex logo? The Florida Marlins', with 10,966 stitches. Take that, New York.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 29, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Thursday of the top-selling baseball caps with an article about the impact of the recession on the sale of such hats described one from 2003 incorrectly in some editions. It was from the World Series, not the World Baseball Classic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers assembling hats at the New Era Cap Company, an official provider for Major League Baseball. Sales are down 10 percent this year.
''We're seeing a very jittery landscape,'' Peter Augustine, New Era's president, said. ''Even Yankee hats are down despite the year they are having.'' (pg.B13)
New Era can make hats combining almost any color, pattern or fabric to react to the latest trends.
The Yankees-Red Sox rivalry extends beyond the American League East
the teams' caps were the best sellers last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B15) CHART: STITCH COUNT: Major League Baseball caps with the most and the fewest stitches in their logos. (pg.B13)
 TOP-SELLING CAPS (Source: New Era Cap Co.) (pg.B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (90%); APPAREL MFG (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); TRENDS (74%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (64%); NEW PRODUCTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); BOSTON RED SOX (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



710 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Deskbound, Romancing The Brick

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
THE tarnishing of Wall Street and the breakout success of ''Shop Class as Soulcraft'' by Matthew B. Crawford, the Ph.D. who left academia to become a motorcycle repairman, are probably no coincidence. 
 As corporate America has shed millions of jobs, Mr. Crawford's philosophical musings on the spirit-restoring value of working with his hands touched a big nerve, quickly becoming a national best seller and generating widespread publicity. 
 It was not the only sign that recession-pummeled Americans are indulging in a romance with blue-collar trades, while also questioning the hollowness of white-collar work. 
 Besides ''Soulcraft,'' whose subtitle is ''An Inquiry Into the Value of Work,'' Richard Sennett, a New York University sociologist, offered a tribute to artisans last year in ''The Craftsman.'' Reality shows like ''Deadliest Catch,'' featuring commercial crab fishermen, and ''Ice Road Truckers,'' following drivers hauling loads across frozen waters in northern Canada and Alaska, have drawn huge audiences. 
 The local-food movement has inspired countless people to plant vegetable gardens, while in California the so-called Maker Movement attracts tinkerers and people interested in crafts to festivals where they exchange tips about building and repairing thousands of things, from rewiring iPods to fixing bicycles. Not since the back-to-the-land days of the 1960s and '70s has there been such a rose-colored view of working with your hands. 
 ''I understand the interest in the trade resurgence, which is partly nostalgia and partly a real and visceral issue in people's lives,'' said Russ Rymer, a writer and fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard, who is working on a book about violin bow makers. ''The nostalgia aspect is evident -- we're feeling ephemeral and remembering wistfully a time when we made things. And our less tangible industries -- finance and investment banking, say -- have disgraced themselves in our eyes, and so we turn to a purportedly more honorable line of work.''
 Whether this nostalgia translates into an actual shift in people's careers has yet to be seen. Current government employment data does not track white-collar workers entering blue-collar jobs or training for skilled trades. Skeptics doubt that the romancing of manual labor will lead to a permanent realignment of the American work force. 
 Nonetheless, cultural critics like Mr. Crawford say a change is afoot, driven by a kind of collective soul-searching, growing frustration with mind-numbing, abstract office work and disillusionment with corporate America. 
 In a new book, ''Reset: How This Crisis Can Restore Our Values and Renew America,'' the novelist and journalist Kurt Andersen predicts that ''careers manipulating money will no longer be so seductive to a disproportionate share of our best and brightest.''
 For his public radio show ''Studio 360,'' Mr. Andersen interviewed about a dozen people switching from white-collar careers to jobs using their hands in fields like cooking, building, art and design, including one who left real estate development to make wood objects. ''It's easy to be a skeptic and say this isn't going to amount to anything,'' he said in an interview. ''I'm skeptical of utopians of any stripe, but having read about and seen how cultural shifts really do happen out of aggregate choices, I think this is real.''
 One person who downshifted from a white-collar career is Monty Wilson, 44, who had earned an economics degree and raced up the ladder into a job in finance for one of the world's largest banks, which he declined to name. But eventually he longed for something else, he said. He could woo a client for months, then easily find himself losing the client to another bank.
 When times were good, he earned as much as $200,000 a year, he said, but this year he read the writing on the wall: clients in his department, aircraft financing, were fleeing. In June he resigned to pursue a decade-old fantasy of working for himself and working with his hands, and bought a wood-floor finishing business in Dallas, where he was based for the bank. 
 Now his navy blue and gray suits hang in his closet. He wears cargo shorts and golf shirts to work. 
 ''I wake up excited in the morning,'' said Mr. Wilson, who has taken a big pay cut and whose wife has gone back to work as a teacher to help support their three children under 13. He hopes that one day he will be able to earn what he did in the white-collar world. 
 ''I am having fun and learning again,'' he said. ''Floors are living, breathing things. They expand when it gets humid, and they contract when it gets dry, and every floor is different.''
 Even as the unemployment rate hovers at 9.4 percent, some skilled trades like welding and pipefitting are in high demand now, among the jobs that cannot be filled with unskilled labor or outsourced overseas. The construction industry is expected to recover and generate more demand for trained electricians, plumbers and carpenters, according to a report last month by the President's Council on Economic Advisers.
 William P. Hite, general president of the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters, said his union had seen a surge in applications for apprenticeships by workers with college degrees. He said the union was also seeing older applicants, including people in their 50s, seeking the five-year apprenticeships.
 ''We've never seen that before,'' he said.
 Many jobs in the trades and other skilled labor fields have gone unfilled because, some sociologists say, Americans have considered white-collar work more valuable than blue collar, driving policies that give priority to four-year colleges over vocational education.
 President Obama, calling on all Americans to get at least an additional year of school or training beyond high school, has uttered a term that many were shocked to hear a president of recent times say: ''vocational education.'' 
 Vocational programs -- generally called career and technical programs now, partly because of the stigma that attaches to ''vocational'' -- were gutted in the 1990s. But the president has said several times that he wants to see a fundamental rethinking of job training, vocational education and community college programs. 
 Stephen DeWitt, policy director of the Association for Career and Technical Education, said: ''We're glad a president is finally talking about this. You hear 'vocational' and people think of shop class, and those weren't bad for the times. But times have changed.''
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics has projected that between 2006 and 2016, 15.6 million new jobs will be created, 10.8 million of them requiring not a bachelor's degree or a higher one, but rather an associate degree, or vocational or on-the-job training, or both. 
 The projections were made before the recession, but they, along with the gutting of the financial services industry, have left many economists and sociologists to wonder what a post-recession economy could look like: Empty cubicles and nobody to fix things?
 Still, if pressed, many white-collar workers musing about working with their hands might balk at the hard labor and, for skilled trades, the training necessary for these jobs, not to mention pay cuts and changes in ways of living. 
 ''The grass is not as green as you think on the other side,'' said Philip Olivieri, 31, who started his own building maintenance company in Brooklyn after working 10 years as a custodial engineer and electrician. 
 ''Are you really ready to do five years of trade school and, before you know it, you're hitting your 40s, lifting every day?'' he said. ''You become like a bull -- you're lugging around a lot of weight and it takes a toll on your body. You're drilling into buildings. Half the material you end up breathing in.'' 
 ''Construction is not a joke,'' he said. ''Physical labor takes a toll on you, and people don't realize how hard it is.''
 Robert Jackall, a sociologist at Williams College who is currently updating his 1989 book, ''Moral Mazes: The World of Corporate Managers,'' about greed and corruption in the financial industry, said that during the back-to-the-land movement of a generation ago, many who left jobs in cities to take up farming or live in communes ''eventually couldn't make it and ended up coming back to the standard workplace.''
 Even if manual labor is having a moment in the sun, he said, ''I'm skeptical that our society, and the way in which the institutions of our society are geared and the economic situation in which we find ourselves will permit the realization of this noble dream.'' 
 Mr. Crawford, the motorcycle-repairman-author, acknowledged that he was able to leave his white-collar job for the shop only because his wife has health insurance. Society's appreciation for skilled manual labor and craftsmanship has faded, he said, because ''we've had this dichotomy of knowledge work versus manual work, as though they are two different things.''
 ''There's a lot of thinking that goes on in the trades,'' he said. ''And that experience of seeing a direct effect of your own actions in the world has become kind of elusive.'' 
 It has been elusive for Joe Dietz, 30, an account executive for a construction financing firm, who dropped out of college and was a landscaper for years before he landed this job through a friend. In June, his commission-based pay started to sink, and lately, without the money he saw as the payoff for being chained to a computer, he has been asking carpenters in his Brooklyn neighborhood if they need help. He is contemplating a return to landscaping. 
 ''Working with your hands, it's so much more rewarding in the sense that you can physically see your progress,'' Mr. Dietz said. ''At the end of the day, you know that you've done something that is right in front of you. Right now, I've got $100 million worth of projects out there that could take the next 10 years to get done, if they get done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE HANDS HAVE IT: Manual labor has taken on a new attraction for some.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CORBIS)(pg. E1)
 NEWLY POLISHED: Monty Wilson gave up a career in finance to start a floor refinishing business.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); BESTSELLERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (68%); SHELLFISH FISHING (68%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



711 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Life as Sales Of New Homes Improve

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Sales of new homes surged nearly 10 percent in July from a month earlier, another indicator that the country's long-suffering housing market was starting to turn around.
 The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that new-home sales rose 9.6 percent to a seasonally adjusted rate of 433,000 last month. The numbers came on the heels of other reports that have showed housing prices rising in many big cities and sales of previously owned homes picking up. 
 Sales, however, were still down 13.4 percent from a year ago, and the housing market is still in critical condition. Economists attributed some of the month's increase to a government tax credit of up to $8,000 for first-time home buyers, and they pointed out that sales could struggle as more people lose their jobs and more loans go bad. 
 But for a month, at least, as new-home sales surged in the Northeast and the South, the glut of unsold, newly built homes diminished somewhat.
 The inventory of homes for sale fell to a seasonally adjusted 271,000, which would take seven and a half months to sell at the current pace. That is a higher supply of homes than normal, but it is down sharply from a 12 months' supply earlier this year. 
 Inventories are also falling in part because construction companies are simply not building houses as they were during real estate's boom years. Credit for builders is still tight, and builders are being undercut in many markets by distressed properties like foreclosures and sales for less than the mortgage loan by homeowners who need to sell.
 In a sign of those troubles, new homes were on the market more than a year before they sold. That is double the median time it took to sell a new house in 2007.
 ''It's really hard to sell a new home if you're a builder,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist at IHS Global Insight. ''It's just a brutal market.''
 Wednesday's report came a day after the latest Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller home price index showed improvement in 18 of the 20 cities tracked. That was up from eight cities in May, four in April and one in March. 
 In a more measured sign of the economy's progress, new orders for durable goods. products that last more than three years, leaped last month by the most in two years, the government reported Wednesday in a separate release. 
 Economists said the numbers were less positive than they appeared.
 Much of the 4.9 percent increase in orders came from a 107 percent spike in orders for civilian aircraft, a volatile area that can rise and fall significantly month to month. Economists had forecast a 3 percent increase. Excluding transportation, durable goods orders rose by a more modest 0.8 percent in July, the Commerce Department reported. 
 Economists are paying close attention to orders for manufactured goods as they look for signs the recession is ending. A sustained increase in shipments and orders of machinery, fabricated metals, electronic equipment and other goods would offer a clue that businesses were increasing production and replacing their depleted inventories.
 Orders for durable goods have increased in three of the last four months, but they fell by a revised 1.3 percent in June -- up from a 2.2 percent decline.
 Economists had been expecting a 3 percent increase in durable goods orders, and despite the muted figures on Wednesday, they said manufacturers had been gradually coming back to life. Industrial production is ticking up, according to the latest figures from the Federal Reserve, and some of the enormous slack in the economy is being drawn taut.
 ''It looks like business investment in general is turning a corner,'' said Kurt E. Karl, chief United States economist at Swiss Re.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sales for new construction like this home in Clayton, N.C., rose 9.6 percent in July, perhaps helped by a temporary tax credit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
The glut of new homes fell last month in the South and the Northeast, with sales of houses like this one in Wellesley, Mass.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B3) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



712 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; DOMESTIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: The Honey-Don't List

BYLINE: By LUCINDA ROSENFELD. 
Lucinda Rosenfeld is the author of ''I'm So Happy for You: A Novel About Best Friends.''

 BODY:
A THERAPIST once observed that I care a lot about how things look. I remember feeling hurt.
 She was right, of course. I used to obsess about my skin, my weight, my clothes, even my cuticles. These days, all I seem to care about is the appearance of my home, a circa 1852 brownstone in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, that looks, to my perfectionist eye, like a cross between Grey Gardens and a budget motel.
 The only reason my husband and I could afford it, even in the Precambrian real estate era of late 2003, was because, at some point in the middle of the last century, the interior had been butchered to accommodate four families.
 Over the next 50 years, the aesthetic faux pas added up. Synthetic wall-to-wall carpeting covered the top floors. Beige plaid linoleum was glued to the stairs. The formerly grand parlor had been divided into three rooms and covered in fake wood paneling, its 12-foot ceiling dropped, its fireplaces boarded up and its mantels removed. The ground floor had been renovated to resemble a suburban TV den, circa 1979. 
 The piece de resistance was an elevated swimming pool that took up the entire backyard, precluding the possibility of growing anything there. When we took possession of the property, in late winter, we found the pool still filled, its water a disc-shaped ice block to rival Antarctica's.
 Any decent architect would have ordered the place gutted. But that was beyond our budget. It wasn't really our style, either. I saw things worth saving: old wooden shutters, plaster crown molding (broken but still beautiful), a 10-foot gilt-framed pier mirror in the parlor.
 Besides, we were eager to install tenants upstairs and move in below, since we were paying a hefty mortgage -- something that made me nervous, and my husband even more so. 
 I always thought I was cheap until I met him. 
 My husband grew up in Northern England. Like me, he is a writer, but unlike me, he still uses a dot-matrix printer. His suitcase is held together with tape. Until recently, he drove a 1989 eggplant-colored Cadillac Seville that was so battered, people often mistook it for a gypsy cab and tried to hail it.
 I grew up in New Jersey, two towns away from Paramus. Shopping is the closest thing we Jerseyites have to a state religion.
 My husband likes to save, and pay off debt; I like to spend. If we have anything in common, it's our love of a bargain.
 Naturally, we chose our first contractor -- I'll call him Mattias -- because he offered cut-rate services. He was also unlicensed.
 Mattias claimed to have once been a free-market economist in Buenos Aires. He and my husband would disappear to a local coffee shop for hours at a time, ostensibly to discuss broken joists, but also possibly to debate the relationship between inflation and interest rates. 
 Often, when Mattias stopped by the house to check on our renovation, a heavily made-up woman of indeterminate age would be waiting for him in his car. Sometimes he would refer to her as his sister, other times as his secretary. She was definitely not his wife, though he had one of those, too. 
 Mattias's professional life was as complicated as his personal life. One day, several months into the job, he seemed tenser than usual and asked if we had a back entrance he could use to leave the house. (We don't.) That was when we noticed the van parked outside with two burly guys with crewcuts in the front seat. Mattias explained that he'd taken a loan from ''some Russians.''
 A week later, he asked my husband if he could borrow $10,000. Fortunately, my husband, being not only cheap but also suspicious, refused. The following week, Mattias didn't show up for work. His cellphone had been disconnected; his workers hadn't been paid in a month.
 We felt awful, and stopped renovating. But two years later, we made the same mistake again.
 We hired Mr. H., a monosyllabic Sri Lankan chain-smoker, to redo the facade, which was falling onto the sidewalk in brick-size chunks. Mr. H.'s bid was $25,000 less than the others we received. How bad a job could he do, we wondered.
 Pretty bad, it turned out. I didn't know how many shades of brown there were until he finished resurfacing the house. The next spring, we paid him to come back and fix the problem. Like a chemical peel gone awry, the power wash he oversaw left the facade looking even angrier than before, nearly tie-dyed.
 These disasters haven't been the source of our major disagreements over the last five-plus years, though. Our worst home-improvement skirmishes have been caused by differences of opinion on how to handle smaller things. 
 Not long after we moved in, we discovered that our apartment had no doorbell. My husband went to Lowe's and bought a white plastic wireless one for $9.99. When I protested that it was unsightly, he pointed out that a) getting a ''real one'' installed was a big, costly job that involved opening up walls; b) it was just a doorbell; and c) the wireless bell more than served its purpose, emitting a two-tone twang when the delivery guy rang with our rotisserie chicken -- and who else, besides NYPIRG, ever came calling?
 He was right, of course. But to this day, every time I see that bulbous plastic strip affixed to our pretty carved wood doors, I get a little annoyed.
 It also irks me that our potentially glamorous parlor resembles a day care center. My husband doesn't see it that way.
 Our children spend most of their time there, he argues. Why shouldn't their favorite toys -- our 1-year-old's enormous Little Tikes Cozy Coupe II car and our 3-year-old's 4,000 jigsaw puzzle pieces, blocks, barrettes and stickers -- be spread out across the floor?
 To his credit, he's also concerned about safety. Against my wishes, my antique music stand and my Art Deco brass-and-jadite standing lamp were removed to the basement for fear one of our daughters might overturn them onto her head. 
 More recently, he renewed his campaign to rid our living room of my beloved coffee table, an octagonal glass-and-mahogany piece, circa 1930, that I splurged on at Depression Modern, in SoHo, before I had children. No matter that we had it refitted with bulletproof glass.
 To my husband, furniture is purely utilitarian. Tables should be steady. Lamps need to be bright. The most important thing about a sofa is whether it's comfortable. 
 But I think furniture is only as good as it looks. Which is to say, whether or not it conforms to my partly realized fantasy of faded bohemian grandeur (worn velvet upholstery, vintage crystal chandeliers, etc.).
 After we bought the house and moved in together, I made it my mission to rid our home of every last vestige of his bachelor pad in Manhattan. The maroon rayon jacquard curtains quietly went into the garbage before my husband ever crossed the East River. But I couldn't stop other unspeakable objects from accompanying him to Brooklyn.
 It was only last year that I succeeded in getting rid of the shellacked plywood chest he bought at the Salvation Army. Up until the very end -- trash night -- he was still insisting it was an antique. I replaced it with a bureau I found on Craigslist for $100, then painted white and embellished with crystal knobs. (At the sight of his new dresser, my husband shook his head, grimaced and silently began to transfer his socks.)
 All that remains now is an unfinished wood bedside table, a black office chair, a cheap off-white sleeper sofa and an ancient yacht-size TV.
 But the house itself still needs a lot of work, including a new kitchen and bathroom. The rental apartments need to be renovated, the fire escape removed, the windows replaced. If only I could get my husband to stop being so financially prudent during a recession. 
 Recently, when we refinanced our mortgage, he was very excited about our new interest rate. I couldn't help but think that the exorbitant fee we paid for the privilege of sending JPMorgan Chase even more money every month (we switched from a 30-year mortgage to a 15-year one) was wasted.
 Occasionally, though, I do get my way.
 For five years, I coveted my neighbors' 19th-century carved marble mantels. Last year, as a reward for finishing my novel -- which is about, among other things, real estate envy in Brooklyn -- I bought one. At this point, it's decorative; the fireplace is boarded up. Needless to say, my husband thought it was a ridiculous extravagance. But somehow it makes me ridiculously happy.
 That is, until I spot the shiny plastic doors of our 1980s kitchen cabinets out of the corner of my eye. The ones over the stove have actually melted. My husband doesn't see the problem.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY HOVLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); FLOORING (69%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) ENGLAND (72%); ANTARCTICA (69%); UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



713 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: The Most Dangerous Teams

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
We would like to stop piling on the Mets. We really would. But just when you think they cannot possibly botch anything else in a hopelessly lost season, they let General Manager Omar Minaya say a few words and, Presto! Sure, we could jump on the Rockies' bandwagon, wring our hands over the latest Cubs demise, or use a slide rule to calculate the Yankees' slugging percentage, but the Mets have become baseball's irresistible train wreck, a slow-motion catastrophe we can no longer take our eyes off. Reality shows would kill for the Mets' plotlines.
 You can start with some roundups of the team's calamities -- including spending the gross national product of a small country on injured players -- provided by The New York Times's Ben Shpigel or The New York Post's Bart Hubbuch, then pivot over to Foxsports.com to read Ken Rosenthal's conclusion that the Mets are actually a hazard to their players' health. Come back to The Post's Joel Sherman for the latest bashing of Minaya, who we are guessing will not emerge from his rabbit hole again this season. 
 Oh, they did succeed in trading closer Billy Wagner to the Red Sox, who can now try to redeem his old team by bruising the Yankees once or twice.
 The flip side of the Mets' story appears to be the Rockies, who won another extra-inning thriller, this time in 10 innings over the Dodgers. Since it probably happened after your bedtime, catch the video highlights and read Peter Gammons's take, on ESPN.com, that it is the Rockies' pitching that should get the credit.
 Meanwhile, the Angels are enjoying the fruits of their ''bargain'' acquisition of Bobby Abreu, writes SI.com's Lee Jenkins, and his teammate Torii Hunter is enjoying life, which includes a brother he did not know until recently.
 If all that is a bit too heartwarming for you, flip over to this Little League World Series video, which captures a pitcher asking to hit an opposing batter, and you may conclude that sportsmanship is a lost cause.
 Another New Yorkish team grabs some N.F.L. headlines, with the Jets naming Mark Sanchez their starting quarterback on Wednesday. Being a rookie quarterback in the N.F.L. can be a mixed blessing, as Foxsports.com's Peter Schrager details how the league often devours its young signal-callers.
 The league has not exactly been welcoming to some of its old stars, with the free agent receiver Marvin Harrison still waiting for a phone call. And Philadelphia offensive tackle Shawn Andrews has his own issues, which keep befuddling the Eagles.
 The Heat's Michael Beasley has been befuddling more than a few people, and The Miami Herald reported that Beasley's quick descent into rehab was being planned since a rookie orientation incident a year ago. And just when you thought the former Knicks coach Isiah Thomas had receded from the spotlight at Florida International University, the college has threatened to pull out of a basketball tournament because it switched F.I.U.'s opponent to North Carolina from Ohio State. Gregg Doyel writes on CBSSports.com, though, that this is really a mess created by Thomas's boss, Athletic Director Pete Garcia, who also thought hiring Thomas was a wise move.
 Miami, the University of, got the shock of having two of its quarterbacks announce a transfer on the same day. And a Freedom of Information lawsuit is being filed by Sports Illustrated against college football coaches' attempt to keep coaches' poll ballots a secret.
 The N.H.L. is persisting with its soap opera in Phoenix, bidding to buy one of its own teams when the expected bid from Jerry Reinsdorf fell through. This reeks of desperation, writes Greg Wyshynski on Yahoo's Puck Daddy blog.
 Hockey wishes it could spawn the kind of interest the cyclist Lance Armstrong does with a simple tweet. Dublin's Phoenix Park was overrun with Armstrong fans after he invited them to ride with him via Twitter message. Fortunately, they were far better behaved than English soccer fans, who hit a new low with a violent clash at a West Ham-Millwall game on Tuesday.
 In comparison, the Mets' season sounds like a lighthearted romantic comedy. There has been no rioting at the Shake Shack. Yet.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS (74%); YOUTH SPORTS (71%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



714 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1900 words

PERSON: Dominick Dunne 

HEADLINE: Dominick Dunne, Writer Who Chronicled High-Profile Crime, Is Dead at 83

BYLINE: By ENID NEMY; David Carr contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Dominick Dunne, who gave up producing movies in midlife and reinvented himself as a best-selling author, magazine writer, television personality and reporter whose celebrity often outshone that of his subjects, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. 
 The cause was bladder cancer, a family spokesman said. The spokesman had initially declined to confirm the death, saying the family had hoped to wait a day before making an announcement so that Mr. Dunne's obituary would not be obscured by the coverage of Senator Edward M. Kennedy's death.
 In the past year Mr. Dunne traveled to the Dominican Republic and Germany for experimental stem-cell treatments to fight his cancer, at one point writing that he and the actress Farrah Fawcett, who died in June, were in the same Bavarian clinic.
 He sprang to national prominence with his best-selling novels ''The Two Mrs. Grenvilles'' in 1985 and ''An Inconvenient Woman'' in 1990, both focused on murders in the upper realms of society. He later chronicled high-profile criminal trials and high society as a correspondent and columnist for Vanity Fair magazine. 
 He achieved perhaps his widest fame from his reporting of the O. J. Simpson murder trial in 1994 and 1995 and later as the host of the program ''Dominick Dunne's Power, Privilege and Justice,'' on what was then Court TV (now TruTV).
 Last year, as a postscript to his Simpson coverage, Mr. Dunne defied his doctor's orders and flew to Las Vegas to attend Mr. Simpson's kidnapping and robbery trial.
 Mr. Dunne's magazine career was weighted toward the coverage of sensational murder trials. He made no secret of the fact that his sympathy generally lay with the victim, and he was vocal about what he considered the misapplication of justice. 
 Sympathetic Stance
 He never hesitated to admit that his sympathetic stance stemmed from the murder of his daughter, Dominique, by John Sweeney, her ex-boyfriend, in 1982. Ms. Dunne, a 22-year-old actress, was found strangled, and Mr. Sweeney, who was found guilty only of voluntary manslaughter and a misdemeanor for an earlier assault, served less than three years.
 ''I'm sick of being asked to weep for killers,'' Mr. Dunne often said. ''We've lost our sense of outrage.''
 During the trial, Tina Brown, who was the editor of Vanity Fair at the time, suggested he keep a journal. The account, ''Justice: A Father's Account of the Trial of His Daughter's Killer,'' was published in Vanity Fair in 1984. 
 ''He never pretended to be objective in covering trials,'' Graydon Carter, the current editor of Vanity Fair, said Wednesday. ''He was always writing from the point of view of the victim because of what happened to his daughter, and he had a riveting way of knowing, almost like Balzac, what to tell the reader when.''
 Mr. Dunne went on to cover the trials of Claus von Bulow, Michael C. Skakel, William Kennedy Smith, Erik and Lyle Menendez, and Phil Spector, as well as the impeachment of President Bill Clinton. 
 ''I realized the power writing has, and it has also helped me deal with my rage,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times for this obituary in 2000. ''It gave me a lifelong commitment not to be afraid to speak out about injustice.''
 Mr. Dunne's brother was the writer John Gregory Dunne, the husband of the writer Joan Didion. He died in 2003.
 High-Profile Clashes
 Mr. Dunne's speaking out led to a lawsuit for slander filed by Gary Condit, a Democratic congressman from California, over remarks Mr. Dunne had made on national radio and television in 2001. Mr. Condit had been scheduled to testify in a deposition about his relationship with Chandra Levy, a federal government intern who disappeared in May 2001 and whose body was found in a Washington park in 2002. 
 Mr. Dunne quoted a man who asserted that he had heard that Mr. Condit had talked about his relationship with a woman whom he had described as a clinger. Mr. Dunne said this had created an environment that led to Ms. Levy's disappearance. Mr. Condit's suit, originally seeking $11 million in damages, was settled for an undisclosed sum and an apology. A later suit by Mr. Condit was dismissed.
 Mr. Dunne also clashed with the Kennedy family about his involvement in the 2002 trial of Mr. Skakel, a first cousin of Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Mr. Skakel was sentenced to 20 years to life in the murder of Martha Moxley in 1975. Her body was found beneath a tree on her parents' property in Greenwich, Conn.
 In 2003, in a 14,000-word article in The Atlantic Monthly arguing that the case against his cousin was flawed and had left reasonable doubt, Mr. Kennedy accused Mr. Dunne of intimidating prosecutors and helping to drive the news media into ''a frenzy to lynch the fat kid.''
 Mr. Dunne said in The Times interview that he had also been a source of information for a book that Mark Fuhrman was writing about the Skakel trial. He had met him when Mr. Fuhrman testified during the O. J. Simpson murder trial. ''I had some hot information about Skakel,'' Mr. Dunne said, ''and I knew Fuhrman would bring it to attention.'' 
 Mr. Dunne, known as Nick to his friends, was a ubiquitous figure in both American and European society. He attributed his success to his being a good listener. ''Listening is an underrated skill,'' he said in discussing his interviews with political figures and celebrities like Imelda Marcos, Elizabeth Taylor, Diane Keaton and Mr. von Bulow.
 At Michael's restaurant in Manhattan, a favorite gathering spot of the news media elite, Mr. Dunne could often be found at his regular corner table receiving admirers. Even as his health declined, he would show up in his trademark round glasses and a Turnbull & Asser shirt, with the proper white collar and large blue stripes.
 With his appetite for gossip, a short stop at his table would usually yield some nugget. And the story would almost always start with, ''Do you know what I heard?'' and end with ''Can you believe that!'' 
 'A Rotten Athlete'
 Born in Hartford, Dominick John Dunne was one of six children of a fourth-generation Irish-Catholic family. His father, Richard, was a heart surgeon, and although the family was well-off, his childhood was not happy.
 ''I was a rotten athlete, I liked puppet shows and I was kind of a sissy,'' he recalled in The Times interview. ''Something about me drove my father crazy. He mocked me and often beat me with a wooden coat hanger, and although we belonged to WASP clubs, we were never a part of things. We were like minor-league Kennedys.''
 Drafted into the Army during his senior year in high school, Mr. Dunne fought in the Battle of the Bulge and won both his father's admiration and a Bronze Star for crawling past Nazi sentries and carrying back a wounded soldier. After his Army service, he attended Williams College, where he and a group that included Stephen Sondheim started a theater.
 After graduating in 1949, he moved to New York, where he became stage manager for television shows and later an assistant to the producer of ''Playhouse 90.'' In 1954 he married Ellen Griffin, who was known as Lenny and with whom he had two sons, Griffin and Alexander, in addition to Dominique.
 By 1957 he was in Santa Monica, Calif.; a year later he was producing at 20th Century Fox and living in Beverly Hills. By the 1970s he was a vice president of Four Star Television and produced ''The Boys in the Band,'' ''Panic in Needle Park'' and other films.
 Dominick and Lenny Dunne became famous in the industry for their parties, the most memorable of which was a black and white ball, held in 1964 to celebrate their 10th anniversary. The guests included Nancy and Ronald Reagan and Truman Capote, who two years later used the idea for his own ball of the same name, at the Plaza Hotel in New York, a renowned event to which the Dunnes were not invited.
 ''My jobs never qualified me for the strata of Hollywood we moved in,'' he recalled. ''I always kept scrap books and saved everything. On some level, I knew it was not going to last.'' 
 It didn't. Devastated when his wife asked for a divorce -- ''She was the real thing, and I became a fake,'' he said -- he declined into ''a hopeless alcoholic,'' he admitted, and started to use cocaine. Returning from Mexico, he was arrested for drug possession at the airport in Los Angeles.
 But his drinking continued, and though none of his films were box-office smashes, the denouement came in 1973 with the widely panned ''Ash Wednesday,'' a picture he produced starring Ms. Taylor. Compounding that failure was the publication in a trade newspaper of a joke he told, while he was drinking, about a Hollywood power broker.
 ''I kind of knew it was going to be my swan song,'' he said of the remark. He became a nonperson in the industry. 
 At one point he sold all his possessions including, for $300, his dog, a West Highland terrier. He went on unemployment, all the while terrified that his friends would see him in the line. 
 In 1979, approaching his mid 50s, he left Los Angeles. ''I got into the car and didn't know where I was headed,'' he said in an interview. ''I drove north, stopped for a flat tire in Oregon and stayed there in a one-room cabin for six months.'' There he started to write for the first time. The book was a novel of Hollywood, ''The Winners.'' 
 A New Chapter
 He moved to New York in 1981. Reviews of ''The Winners'' were scathing, but his editor, Michael Korda, advised him to go in another direction.
 ''He told me there was nothing people liked more than reading about the rich and powerful in criminal situations,'' Mr. Dunne said. ''It was, like, 'Boing' in my head, and I made a genre out of the thing. I wrote 'The Two Mrs. Grenvilles,' about a social family whose son married a showgirl who was then accused of murdering him. Two million copies were sold and that book utterly changed my life.''
 Other books followed, among them ''People Like Us''; ''A Season in Purgatory,'' based on a rich Catholic family and murder; and ''An Inconvenient Woman,'' about a social couple and the murder of the husband's mistress. 
 In 1999 he published a memoir, ''The Way We Lived Then, Recollections of a Well-Known Name Dropper,'' studded with photographs of the famous.
 His increasing prominence as a reporter, writer, author and television personality made him a staple at fashionable dinner parties and social events. 
 ''All the people who dumped me years before were now giving dinner parties for me,'' he said during Mr. Simpson's trial. ''And I went.''
 Although he had been divorced for two decades, he remained devoted to his ex-wife, who learned she had multiple sclerosis in 1972, until her death in 1997. He is survived by his sons Griffin, an actor and director of New York, and Alexander of Portland, Ore.; and a granddaughter, Hannah Dunne.
 In 2000, Mr. Dunne was found to have prostate cancer. Six years later he was being treated in a hospital when, he said, he decided to leave. Disconnecting himself from the medical instruments attached to him, he walked out and took a taxi home.
 ''It caused a lot of commotion at the hospital,'' he said. ''But I was convinced I was going to die, and the room was not the right setting for my death scene.
 ''I stayed home for five days and did everything the doctor told me to do,'' he added, ''and a week later I flew to Europe.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dominick Dunne at his home in Manhattan in 2002.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Dunne sits near O. J. Simpson at Mr. Simpson's 2008 trial in Las Vegas. He also reported on Mr. Simpson's murder trial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY ISAAC BREKKEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); MURDER (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); DEATHS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CANCER (77%); MANSLAUGHTER (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (72%); BLADDER CANCER (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (69%); VOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (67%)

TED KENNEDY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (57%); GERMANY (57%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



715 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: More Sun for Less

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
When Greg Hare looked into putting solar panels on his ranch-style home in Magnolia, Tex., last year, he decided he could not afford it. ''I had no idea solar was so expensive,'' he recalled.
 But the cost of solar panels has plunged lately, changing the economics for many homeowners. Mr. Hare ended up paying $77,000 for a large solar setup that he figures might have cost him $100,000 a year ago. 
 ''I just thought, 'Wow, this is an opportunity to do the most for the least,' '' Mr. Hare said. 
 For solar shoppers these days, the price is right. Panel prices have fallen about 40 percent since the middle of last year, driven down partly by an increase in the supply of a crucial ingredient for panels, according to analysts at the investment bank Piper Jaffray.
 The price drops -- coupled with recently expanded federal incentives -- could shrink the time it takes solar panels to pay for themselves to 16 years, from 22 years, in places with high electricity costs, according to Glenn Harris, chief executive of SunCentric, a solar consulting group. That calculation does not include state rebates, which can sometimes improve the economics considerably.
 American consumers have the rest of the world to thank for the big solar price break. 
 Until recently, panel makers had been constrained by limited production of polysilicon, which goes into most types of panels. But more factories making the material have opened, as have more plants churning out the panels themselves -- especially in China.
 ''A ton of production, mostly Chinese, has come online,'' said Chris Whitman, the president of U.S. Solar Finance, which helps arrange bank financing for solar projects.
 At the same time, once-roaring global demand for solar panels has slowed, particularly in Europe, the largest solar market, where photovoltaic installations are forecast to fall by 26 percent this year compared with 2008, according to Emerging Energy Research, a consulting firm. Much of that drop can be attributed to a sharp slowdown in Spain. Faced with high unemployment and an economic crisis, Spain slashed its generous subsidy for the panels last year because it was costing too much.
 Many experts expect panel prices to fall further, though not by another 40 percent. 
 Manufacturers are already reeling from the price slump. For example, Evergreen Solar, which is based in Massachusetts, recently reported a second-quarter loss that was more than double its loss from a year earlier.
 But some manufacturers say that cheaper panels could be a good thing in the long term, spurring enthusiasm among customers and expanding the market.
 ''It's important that these costs and prices do come down,'' said Mike Ahearn, the chief executive of First Solar, a panel maker based in Tempe, Ariz. 
 First Solar recently announced a deal to build two large solar arrays in Southern California to supply that region's dominant utility. But across the United States, the installation of large solar systems -- the type found on commercial or government buildings -- has been hurt by financing problems, and is on track to be about the same this year as in 2008, according to Emerging Energy Research. 
 The smaller residential sector continues to grow: In California, by far the largest market in the country, residential installations in July were up by more than 50 percent compared with a year earlier. With prices dropping, that momentum looks poised to continue.
 John Berger, chief executive of Standard Renewable Energy, the company in Houston that put panels on Mr. Hare's home, said that his second-quarter sales rose by more than 225 percent from the first quarter.
 ''Was that as a product of declining panel prices? Almost certainly yes,'' Mr. Berger said.
 Expanded federal incentives have also helped spur the market. Until this year, homeowners could get a 30 percent tax credit for solar electric installations, but it was capped at $2,000. That cap was lifted on Jan. 1.
 Mr. Hare in Texas cited the larger tax credit, which sliced about $23,000 from his $77,000 bill, as a major factor in his decision to go solar, in addition to the falling panel prices. Sensing a good deal, he even got a larger system than he had originally planned -- going from 42 panels to 64. The electric bill on his 7,000-square-foot house and garage has typically run $600 to $700 a month, but he expects a reduction of 40 to 80 percent.
 Mr. Berger predicts that with panel prices falling and the generous federal credit in place, utilities will start lowering rebates they offer to homeowners who put panels on their roofs.
 One that has already done so is the Salt River Project, the main utility in Phoenix, which cut its homeowners' rebate by 10 percent in June. Lori Singleton, the utility's sustainability manager, said the utility had recently spent more than it budgeted for solar power, a result of a surge in demand as more solar installers moved into Arizona and government incentives kicked in.
 California has been steadily bringing down its rebates. An impending 29 percent cut in rebates offered within the service area of Pacific Gas and Electric, the dominant utility in Northern California, means that ''with the module price drop over the last few months, it is pretty much a wash,'' Bill Stewart, president of SolarCraft, an installer in Novato, Calif., said in an e-mail message.
 Even if falling rebates cancel out some of the solar panel price slump, more innovative financing strategies are also helping to make solar affordable for homeowners. This year about a dozen states -- following moves by California and Colorado last year -- have enacted laws enabling solar panels to be paid off gradually, through increased property taxes, after a municipality first shoulders the upfront costs.
 Some installers have adopted similar approaches. Danita Hardy, a homeowner in Phoenix, had been put off by the prospect of spending $20,000 for solar panels -- until she spotted a news item about a company called SunRun that takes on the upfront expense and recovers its costs gradually, in a lease deal, essentially through the savings in a homeowner's electric bill.
 ''I thought well, heck, this might be doable,'' said Ms. Hardy, who wound up having to lay out only $800 to get 15 solar panels for her home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Greg Hare installed solar panels on his home in Magnolia, Tex., for $77,000 -- less than he expected to pay.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 A worker at SolarWorld in Hillsboro, Ore., fills a container with polysilicon, which is then melted to make a solar crystal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) CHART: Drop in Panel Prices: Wholesale prices for solar panels have fallen about 40 percent since last year, and are expected to fall a little further.(Source: Piper Jaffray & Co.)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); SALES REBATES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ENERGY RESEARCH (67%); EURO CRISIS (62%); COMPANY LOSSES (60%)

COMPANY: PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%)

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) SPAIN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



716 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Loans That Looked Easy Pose Threats To Recovery

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
When Harvey Clavon took out an exotic mortgage to refinance his home in Santa Clarita, Calif., three years ago, he thought he knew what he was doing. 
 Mr. Clavon, 63, was planning to sell the home in a few years and retire to Palm Springs. So he got a loan called an option adjustable rate mortgage, or option ARM, which allowed him to pay less than the interest for the first five years.
 On his annual salary of $100,000 as a television camera operator, he could afford the $2,200 initial mortgage payments. And he planned to sell the home before the mortgage reset. 
 Now Mr. Clavon is part of what many economists say is a looming threat to a housing recovery: more than a half-million option ARMs scheduled to reset in the next four years, at rates many homeowners cannot afford. His mortgage payments have risen to $2,700 a month because of a clause he did not notice on his contract, and are scheduled to rise above $4,000 in two years. 
 Since February, default and foreclosure rates on option ARMs have passed those of subprime mortgages, according to the research firm First American CoreLogic, in part because so many subprime mortgages have already failed.
 Because Mr. Clavon made only minimum payments on his mortgage, his balance has risen to $680,000 from $618,000, on a house worth closer to $400,000. 
 ''I don't know what I'm going to do, '' he said. ''I got duped into the loan, and I consider myself an educated man.'' 
 In June, he filed for bankruptcy protection and stopped making house payments. 
 As the housing market seeks a bottom, option ARMs, which accounted for $750 billion in mortgages made from 2004 to 2007, according to the industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance, remain a risk, especially because many are not eligible for refinancing. About a third are already in default, according to analysts. 
 Compared with subprime loans, option ARMs are fewer but tend to have larger balances. Resets on option ARMs in recent years have often doubled the payments. 
 ''Everyone's been focused on subprime, but we're more concerned about this,'' said Todd Jadlos, managing director of LPS Applied Analytics, which analyzes data for the financial industry. ''By the time subprime defaults had increased 200 percent, in June and July of 2007, option ARMs had gone up 400 percent. People just didn't notice because the overall numbers weren't as high.'' 
 First American CoreLogic anticipates 600,000 option ARMS will reset within four years.
 Option ARMs, which lenders stopped offering last year, gave borrowers four payment options: less than the interest, which increases the balance every month; just the interest; the equivalent of a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage; and the equivalent of a 15-year fixed. 
 Three-quarters of borrowers take the minimum option, which usually expires after five years or when the balance reaches a cap, generally 110 percent to 125 percent of the original loan, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
 Once the cap is reached, borrowers have to pay down a higher balance at a higher rate in a shorter period of time. 
 ''This was a loan meant for sophisticated investors, or people who expected their cash flow to increase over time,'' said Elena Warshawsky, a residential credit analyst with Barclays Capital, which expects 81 percent of the option ARMs originated in 2007 to default, with many ending in foreclosure.
 ''But then they were extended to all sorts of buyers. Now it wasn't people hoping their income would grow. It was people hoping their house price would increase'' so they could refinance or sell, Ms. Warshawsky said. 
 The firm projects that banks will lose $112 billion on option ARMs written from 2005 to 2007.
 The respite for option ARMs recently is that interest rates have dropped, so loans take longer to reach their cap and do not recast to as high a rate, said Chandrajit Bhattacharya, a mortgage analyst at Credit Suisse. Loans that would have recast this spring will remain at low rates until next year, Mr. Bhattacharya said.
 Banks are using the reprieve to help some owners refinance into more conventional loans, said Michael Fratantoni, vice president of single family research for the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
 But the loans have had extraordinarily high rates of failure even before reaching their reset dates. Ron Dzurinko, 62, who lives on a fixed income in Sacramento, took out an option ARM five years ago without understanding it, knowing only that he could afford the initial payments of $900 a month. ''The mortgage person said, 'It could adjust, but we don't foresee any major bumps,' '' Mr. Dzurinko said. ''It sounded good to me.''
 When his payments shot up to $1,400 last fall, he said, he defaulted on credit cards, took in a tenant and started a vegetable garden, but still could not make the payments. Meanwhile, his home's value fell below his $260,000 balance. Finally, through a lawyer at Legal Services of Northern California, he was able to get the loan modified to $800 a month -- but only after months of calls and rejections. 
 Mr. Clavon has not had this relief. Sam Hussein, a housing counselor at the nonprofit Clearpoint Credit Counseling Solutions, who has been trying since February to help Mr. Clavon modify his loan, said that even for his eligible clients, lenders have agreed to modifications only about half the time -- ''and then it's usually on the lender's terms,'' with payments often increased, at least temporarily, he said.
 Amid the wreckage, though, option ARMs have been a boon for some borrowers. Gary Kopff, 64, a retired financial manager, took an option ARM on his Washington home in 2006, increasing his balance to $1.2 million from $800,000. Mr. Kopff chose the minimum payments so that all of his payments were interest, allowing him the greatest tax deduction, and because he had no desire to pay off his home. 
 But a surprising thing happened. His rate went down. 
 Mr. Kopff's rate is tied to a figure called the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a measure of the rates banks charge one another to borrow money. As the 30-day Libor fell to less than one half of 1 percent, the rate on Mr. Kopff's loan fell below 3 percent. 
 Now, though he is still making only the minimum payments, he is actually paying down his balance. 
 ''In 2009 I found out I have a 2.5 percent mortgage,'' Mr. Kopff said. ''That's not onerous by any standards.''
 But even for Mr. Kopff, the future has some storm clouds. Interest rates are rising again. When he took out the loan, he planned to refinance into a 30-year fixed mortgage before the reset, but now few banks are refinancing loans his size. 
 ''I'm better off than a great deal of mortgage holders,'' he said. ''But what looks like a good deal today may not look so good in a few years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Kopff and his wife, Judy. Mr. Kopff got lucky with an adjustable rate mortgage
 many others did not.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VERONIKA LUKASOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (55%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



717 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Foxwoods Owner Wants To Restructure Its Debt

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
The tribe that owns the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Connecticut said Wednesday that it was seeking to restructure its debt as revenue slumped. But legal hurdles connected to its tribal ownership may complicate those reorganization efforts. 
 The Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation said that it had hired the investment bank Miller Buckfire and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges to negotiate with its bank group.
 It says that it is current on its debt obligations, including a $700 million credit line that comes due next July, though Foxwoods has an interest payment due Sept. 1.
 ''We have sufficient resources to continue to operate our businesses as normal, and it will be business as usual,'' a spokesman for the tribe said in a statement. 
 The gambling industry has been severely hurt by the recession and less spending by consumers. Some casinos, like Stations Casinos and Fontainebleau Las Vegas, have already filed for bankruptcy protection. Others, like Harrah's Entertainment and MGM Mirage, have managed to gain some breathing room by negotiating with creditors.
 Foxwoods, based in Ledyard, Conn., is one of the biggest casino resorts in the country, and once had little competition throughout the Northeast. Now, however, it must contend with competition from the Mohegan Sun casino and slot operations in nearby states. The Mashantucket Pequot tribe uses its revenue to finance its government operations.
 Native American gambling resorts, however, bear extra limitations on restructuring that other casinos do not. For example, creditors cannot seize the assets of a resort like Foxwoods or take an equity stake because of restrictions in the Indian Gaming Authority Act, according to a June report written by Moody's Investors Service analysts. Because no Native American-run casino has filed for bankruptcy, these conditions have not been tested by federal courts before.
 Both Moody's and Standard & Poor's downgraded Foxwoods' debt ratings on Wednesday
 News of the tribe's efforts to restructure the casino's debt were first reported by The Day of New London, Conn. 
 On Wednesday, Gov. M. Jodi Rell held a news conference to address concerns that a default by the casino would hurt state revenue. Last fall, Foxwoods announced 700 layoffs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foxwoods Resort Casino says that it is current on its debt obligations, including a $700 million credit line due next July.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); RESORTS (90%); GAMING (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%)

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (91%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (91%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (58%); MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (55%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (91%); MGM (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



718 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BENDHEIM, ROBERT

 BODY:
BENDHEIM--Robert, former president and chairman of M. Lowenstein Corporation, died on Friday, August 21st in Greenwich, CT. He was 93. Mr. Bendheim lived in Greenwich, and had a home in Lyford Cay, Nassau. The Lowenstein Company was a major textile firm, which manufactured apparel and industrial fabrics, and Wamsutta and Pacific home furnishings. Mr. Bendheim started with the company as a trainee in 1946, and served as its chief executive officer from 1972 until 1985, when the company sold to Springs Industries. 
During this same period, Mr. Bendheim was also an officer and director of the Leon Lowenstein Foundation, Inc., serving as its president since 1976. The Foundation bears the name of Mr. Bendheim's uncle, Leon Lowenstein, who started the Foundation in 1941. The Foundation's principal grants are for medical research and education. Over the years, large grants have been given to Mt. Sinai, Columbia Presbyterian, and Sloan Kettering medical centers, and in education, to Princeton and Fordham universities, the Wharton School of Economics, and programs for improvement of the New York City public schools. Mr. Bendheim graduated from Princeton University in 1937 and attended the Harvard Business School. He served in the United States Navy as a lieutenant from 1942 to 1946, and he received an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Fordham University in 1966. He was on the Board of Trustees of Mt. Sinai Hospital, the Boards of Fordham University, and United Way of New York, and served on various committees of Princeton University. His clubs included the Round Hill and Stanwich in Greenwich, Lyford Cay in Nassau, the Princeton Club and the River Club in New York City. He is survived by his beloved wife, Jane, his two daughters by a previous marriage, Lynn Bendheim Thoman and Kim Bendheim, his stepdaughter, Josephine Poole, his brother, John M. Bendheim of Scarsdale, New York, and four grandchildren. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street on Thursday, August 27th, at 11:30am. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Bendheim Finance Center at Princeton University, or Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TEXTILES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); FABRICS (72%); NAVIES (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (83%); US NAVY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



719 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Volunteering Has Waned In Recession, Report Says

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
As the recession took hold, most Americans cut back on volunteer work and other civic activities, according to a survey conducted for the National Conference on Citizenship.
 That finding undercuts anecdotal reports of volunteers' flooding nonprofit groups as unemployment has increased and suggests the challenges faced by the Obama administration, Congress and foundations working to encourage greater volunteer service and civic participation. 
 ''They're not saying they've stopped volunteering, but they are cutting back on the time spent on volunteering and civic engagement,'' said David Smith, executive director of the National Conference on Citizenship, which conducted the survey as part of a study titled America's Civic Health Index, 
 The conference has produced the index for the last four years, though it has compiled similar data going back to 1975. Mr. Smith noted that the survey of 3,889 people was done in May, a low point in the economic slide.
 ''That was really when we started to see how badly people are hurting,'' he said. 
 Still, Mr. Smith said the results came as a surprise because in previous downturns, the survey had shown an increase in civic engagement. He said the only other time its index had fallen was during the recession in the early 1980s.
 The survey found that 72 percent of Americans said they were devoting less time to volunteering and other civic activities, like providing food and shelter to those in need and participating in public discussions like town-hall-style meetings.
 Research by the Corporation for National and Community Service, a government agency, using data collected last September, found that volunteering held steady in 2008, compared with the previous year.
 ''That was then,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Lehman Brothers hadn't collapsed, the stock market was still at 11,000 or higher, and unemployment wasn't close to knocking on the door of double digits.''
 Robert Grimm, director of research at the corporation, said the data in the Civic Health Index complemented, rather than contradicted, his organization's findings. ''One of the areas where these two studies intersect is in showing the growth of more informal civic engagement, what I call do-it-yourself civic engagement,'' Dr. Grimm said.
 In fact, 50 percent of respondents to the Civic Health Index reported giving food or money to someone in need who was not a relative. That type of public service does not necessarily involve volunteering or work through any organizational structure.
 Dr. Grimm offered the example of Peter Norback, a resident of the Miles neighborhood in Tucson, who asked his neighbors to put one can of food on their doorsteps each Sunday that he could collect and take to the local food bank.
 The ad hoc effort has been so successful that Mr. Norback now has a blog devoted to it, complete with a how-to guide. 
 The decline in volunteerism is not good news for nonprofits, which are relying on volunteers to help offset declining revenues. In a study by the Listening Post Project, affiliated with the Johns Hopkins Center for Civil Society Studies, about 4 in 10 of the responding nonprofits said they had increased their use of volunteers, and almost half said they planned to use more volunteers over the next year.
 ''With the index, we're sharing a snapshot of what people were doing at the lowest point in the economic crisis,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We're seeing the government and the corporate sector stepping up, and hopefully we'll see these numbers rebound.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



720 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6025 words

PERSON: Edward M. Kennedy 

HEADLINE: Senator Kennedy, Battle Lost, Is Hailed as a Leader

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, a son of one of the most storied families in American politics, a man who knew acclaim and tragedy in near-equal measure and who will be remembered as one of the most effective lawmakers in the history of the Senate, died late Tuesday night. He was 77. 
 The death of Mr. Kennedy, who had been battling brain cancer, was announced Wednesday morning in a statement by the Kennedy family, which was already mourning the death of the senator's sister Eunice Kennedy Shriver two weeks earlier.
 ''Edward M. Kennedy -- the husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle we loved so deeply -- died late Tuesday night at home in Hyannis Port,'' the statement said. ''We've lost the irreplaceable center of our family and joyous light in our lives, but the inspiration of his faith, optimism and perseverance will live on in our hearts forever.'' 
 President Obama said Mr. Kennedy was one of the nation's greatest senators.
 ''His ideas and ideals are stamped on scores of laws and reflected in millions of lives -- in seniors who know new dignity, in families that know new opportunity, in children who know education's promise, and in all who can pursue their dream in an America that is more equal and more just -- including myself,'' he said. Mr. Obama is scheduled to speak at a funeral Mass for Mr. Kennedy on Saturday morning in Boston.
 Mr. Kennedy had been in precarious health since he suffered a seizure in May 2008. His doctors determined the cause was a malignant glioma, a brain tumor that carries a grim prognosis.
 As he underwent cancer treatment, Mr. Kennedy was little seen in Washington, appearing most recently at the White House in April as Mr. Obama signed a national service bill that bears the Kennedy name. In a letter last week, Mr. Kennedy urged Massachusetts lawmakers to change state law and let Gov. Deval Patrick appoint a temporary successor upon his death, to assure that the state's representation in Congress would not be interrupted. 
 While Mr. Kennedy was physically absent from the capital in recent months, his presence was deeply felt as Congress weighed the most sweeping revisions to America's health care system in decades, an effort Mr. Kennedy called ''the cause of my life.'' 
 On July 15, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which Mr. Kennedy headed, passed health care legislation, and the battle over the proposed overhaul is now consuming Capitol Hill.
 Mr. Kennedy was the last surviving brother of a generation of Kennedys that dominated American politics in the 1960s and that came to embody glamour, political idealism and untimely death. The Kennedy mystique -- some call it the Kennedy myth -- has held the imagination of the world for decades, and it came to rest on the sometimes too-narrow shoulders of the brother known as Teddy.
 Mr. Kennedy, who served 46 years as the most well-known Democrat in the Senate, longer than all but two other senators, was the only one of those brothers to reach old age. President John F. Kennedy and Senator Robert F. Kennedy were felled by assassins' bullets in their 40s. The eldest brother, Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., died in 1944 at the age of 29 while on a risky World War II bombing mission.
 Mr. Kennedy spent much of the last year in treatment and recuperation, broken by occasional public appearances and a dramatic return to the Capitol last summer to cast a decisive vote on a Medicare bill.
 He electrified the opening night of the Democratic National Convention in Denver in August with an unscheduled appearance and a speech that had delegates on their feet. Many were in tears.
 His gait was halting, but his voice was strong. ''My fellow Democrats, my fellow Americans, it is so wonderful to be here, and nothing is going to keep me away from this special gathering tonight,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''I have come here tonight to stand with you to change America, to restore its future, to rise to our best ideals and to elect Barack Obama president of the United States.''
 Senator Kennedy was at or near the center of much of American history in the latter part of the 20th century and the early years of the 21st. For much of his adult life, he veered from victory to catastrophe, winning every Senate election he entered but failing in his only bid for the presidency; living through the sudden deaths of his brothers and three of his nephews; being responsible for the drowning death on Chappaquiddick Island of a young woman, Mary Jo Kopechne, a former aide to his brother Robert. One of the nephews, John F. Kennedy Jr., who the family hoped would one day seek political office and keep the Kennedy tradition alive, died in a plane crash in 1999 at age 38.
 Mr. Kennedy himself was almost killed in 1964, in a plane crash that left him with permanent back and neck problems.
 He was a Rabelaisian figure in the Senate and in life, instantly recognizable by his shock of white hair, his florid, oversize face, his booming Boston brogue, his powerful but pained stride. He was a celebrity, sometimes a self-parody, a hearty friend, an implacable foe, a man of large faith and large flaws, a melancholy character who persevered, drank deeply and sang loudly. He was a Kennedy. 
 Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, one of the institution's most devoted students, said of his longtime colleague, ''Ted Kennedy would have been a leader, an outstanding senator, at any period in the nation's history.''
 Mr. Byrd is one of only two senators to have served longer in the chamber than Mr. Kennedy; the other was Strom Thurmond of South Carolina. In May 2008, on learning of Mr. Kennedy's diagnosis of a lethal brain tumor, Mr. Byrd wept openly on the floor of the Senate. 
 More Than a Legislator
 Born to one of the wealthiest American families, Mr. Kennedy spoke for the downtrodden in his public life while living the heedless private life of a playboy and a rake for many of his years. Dismissed early in his career as a lightweight and an unworthy successor to his revered brothers, he grew in stature over time by sheer longevity and by hewing to liberal principles while often crossing the partisan aisle to enact legislation. A man of unbridled appetites at times, he nevertheless brought a discipline to his public work that resulted in an impressive catalog of legislative achievement across a broad landscape of social policy. 
 Mr. Kennedy left his mark on legislation concerning civil rights, health care, education, voting rights and labor. He was chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions at his death. But he was more than a legislator. He was a living legend whose presence ensured a crowd and whose hovering figure haunted many a president.
 Although he was a leading spokesman for liberal issues and a favorite target of conservative fund-raising appeals, the hallmark of his legislative success was his ability to find Republican allies to get bills passed. Perhaps the last notable example was his work with President George W. Bush to pass No Child Left Behind, the education law pushed by Mr. Bush in 2001. He also co-sponsored immigration legislation with Senator John McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee. One of his greatest friends and collaborators in the Senate was Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican.
 Mr. Kennedy had less impact on foreign policy than on domestic concerns, but when he spoke, his voice was influential. He led the Congressional effort to impose sanctions on South Africa over apartheid, pushed for peace in Northern Ireland, won a ban on arms sales to the dictatorship in Chile and denounced the Vietnam War. In 2002, he voted against authorizing the Iraq war; later, he called that opposition ''the best vote I've made in my 44 years in the United States Senate.''
 At a pivotal moment in the 2008 Democratic presidential primaries, Mr. Kennedy endorsed Mr. Obama, then an Illinois senator, Obama for president, saying he offered the country a chance for racial reconciliation and an opportunity to turn the page on the polarizing politics of the past several decades. 
 ''He will be a president who refuses to be trapped in the patterns of the past,'' Mr. Kennedy said at an Obama rally in Washington on Jan. 28, 2008. ''He is a leader who sees the world clearly, without being cynical. He is a fighter who cares passionately about the causes he believes in without demonizing those who hold a different view.''
 This month, Mr. Obama awarded Mr. Kennedy the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which his daughter, Kara, accepted on his behalf.
 Mr. Kennedy struggled for much of his life with his weight, with alcohol and with persistent tales of womanizing. In an Easter break episode in 1991 in Palm Beach, Fla., he went out drinking with his son Patrick and a nephew, William Kennedy Smith, on the night that Mr. Smith was accused of raping a woman. Mr. Smith was prosecuted in a lurid trial that fall but was acquitted.
 Mr. Kennedy's personal life stabilized in 1992 with his marriage to Victoria Anne Reggie, a Washington lawyer. His first marriage, to Joan Bennett Kennedy, ended in divorce in 1982 after 24 years.
 Senator Kennedy served as a surrogate father to his brothers' children and worked to keep the Kennedy flame alive through the Kennedy Library in Boston, the Kennedy Center in Washington and the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, where he helped establish the Institute of Politics.
 In December, Harvard granted Mr. Kennedy a special honorary degree. He referred to Mr. Obama's election as ''not just a culmination, but a new beginning.''
 He then spoke of his own life, and perhaps his legacy.
 ''We know the future will outlast all of us, but I believe that all of us will live on in the future we make,'' he said. ''I have lived a blessed time.''
 Kennedy family courtiers and many other Democrats believed he would eventually win the White House and redeem the promise of his older brothers. In 1980, he took on the president of his own party, Jimmy Carter, but fell short because of Chappaquiddick, a divided party and his own weaknesses as a candidate, including an inability to articulate why he sought the office.
 But as that race ended in August at the Democratic National Convention in New York, Mr. Kennedy delivered his most memorable words, wrapping his dedication to party principles in the gauzy cloak of Camelot.
 ''For me, a few hours ago, this campaign came to an end,'' Mr. Kennedy said in the coda to a speech before a rapt audience at Madison Square Garden and on television. ''For all those whose cares have been our concern, the work goes on, the cause endures, the hope still lives and the dream shall never die.''
 A Family Steeped in Politics
 Born Feb. 22, 1932, in Boston, Edward Moore Kennedy grew up in a family of shrewd politicians. Both his father, Joseph P. Kennedy, and his mother, the former Rose Fitzgerald, came from prominent Irish-Catholic families with long involvement in the hurly-burly of Democratic politics in Boston and Massachusetts. His father, who made a fortune in real estate, movies and banking, served in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration, as the first chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and then as ambassador to Britain.
 There were nine Kennedy children, four boys and five girls, with Edward the youngest. They grew up talking politics, power and influence because those were the things that preoccupied the mind of Joseph Kennedy. As Rose Kennedy, who took responsibility for the children's Roman Catholic upbringing, once put it, ''My babies were rocked to political lullabies.''
 When Edward was born, President Herbert Hoover sent Rose a bouquet of flowers and a note of congratulations. The note came with 5 cents postage due; the framed envelope is a family heirloom.
 It was understood among the children that Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., the oldest boy, would someday run for Congress and, his father hoped, the White House. When Joseph Jr. was killed in World War II, it fell to the next oldest son, John, to run. As John said at one point in 1959 while serving in the Senate: ''Just as I went into politics because Joe died, if anything happened to me tomorrow, Bobby would run for my seat in the Senate. And if Bobby died, our young brother, Ted, would take over for him.''
 Although surrounded by the trappings of wealth -- stately houses, servants and expensive cars -- young Teddy did not enjoy a settled childhood. He bounced among the family homes in Boston, New York, London and Palm Beach, and by the time he was ready to enter college, he had attended 10 preparatory schools in the United States and England, finally finishing at Milton Academy, near Boston. He said that the constant moving had forced him to become more genial with strangers; indeed, he grew to be more of a natural politician than either John or Robert.
 After graduating from Milton in 1950, where he showed a penchant for debating and sports but was otherwise an undistinguished student, Mr. Kennedy enrolled in Harvard, as had his father and brothers. 
 It was at Harvard, in his freshman year, that he ran into the first of several personal troubles that were to dog him for the rest of his life: He persuaded another student to take his Spanish examination, got caught and was forced to leave the university.
 Suddenly draft-eligible during the Korean War, Mr. Kennedy enlisted in the Army and served two years, securing, with his father's help, a post at NATO headquarters in Paris. In 1953, he was discharged with the rank of private first class.
 Re-enrolling in Harvard, he became a more serious student, majoring in government, excelling in public speaking and playing first-string end on the football team. He graduated in 1956 with a Bachelor of Arts degree, then enrolled in the University of Virginia School of Law, where Robert had studied. There, he won the moot court competition and took a degree in 1959. Later that year, he was admitted to the Massachusetts bar.
 Mr. Kennedy's first foray into politics came in 1958, while still a law student, when he managed John's Senate re-election campaign. There was never any real doubt that Massachusetts voters would return John Kennedy to Washington, but it was a useful internship for his youngest brother.
 That same year, Mr. Kennedy married Virginia Joan Bennett, a debutante from Bronxville, a New York suburb where the Kennedys had once lived. In 1960, when John Kennedy ran for president, Edward was assigned a relatively minor role, rustling up votes in Western states that usually voted Republican. He was so enthusiastic about his task that he rode a bronco at a Montana rodeo and daringly took a ski jump at a winter sports tournament in Wisconsin to impress a crowd. The episodes were evidence of a reckless streak that repeatedly threatened his life and career.
 John Kennedy's election to the White House left vacant a Senate seat that the family considered its property. Robert Kennedy was next in line, but chose the post of attorney general instead (an act of nepotism that has since been outlawed). Edward was only 28, two years shy of the minimum age for Senate service.
 So the Kennedys installed Benjamin A. Smith II, a family friend, as a seat-warmer until 1962, when a special election would be held and Edward would have turned 30. Edward used the time to travel the world and work as an assistant district attorney in Boston, waiving the $5,000 salary and serving instead for $1 a year.
 As James Sterling Young, the director of a Kennedy Oral History Project at the University of Virginia, said the catchphrase of that era was: ''Most people grow up and go into politics. The Kennedys go into politics and then they grow up.''
 Less than a month after turning 30 in 1962, Mr. Kennedy declared his candidacy for the remaining two years of his brother's Senate term. He entered the race with a tailwind of family money and political prominence. Nevertheless, Edward J. McCormack Jr., the state's attorney general and a nephew of John W. McCormack, then speaker of the United States House of Representatives, also decided to go after the seat.
 It was a bitter fight, with a public rehash of the Harvard cheating episode and with Mr. McCormack charging in a televised ''Teddy-Eddie'' debate that Mr. Kennedy lacked maturity of judgment because he had ''never worked for a living'' and had never held elective office. ''If your name was simply Edward Moore instead of Edward Moore Kennedy,'' Mr. McCormack added, ''your candidacy would be a joke.''
 But the Kennedys had ushered in an era of celebrity politics, which trumped qualifications in this case. Mr. Kennedy won the primary by a two-to-one ratio, then went on to easy victory in November against the Republican candidate, George Cabot Lodge, a member of an old-line Boston family that had clashed politically with the Kennedys through the years.
 When Mr. Kennedy entered the Senate in 1962, he was aware that he might be seen as an upstart, with one brother in the White House and another in the cabinet. He sought guidance on the very first day from one of the Senate's most respected elders, Richard Russell of Georgia. ''You go further if you go slow,'' Senator Russell advised.
 Mr. Kennedy took things slowly, especially that first year. He did his homework, was seen more than he was heard and was deferential to veteran legislators.
 On Friday, Nov. 22, 1963, he was presiding over the Senate when a wire service ticker in the lobby brought the news of John Kennedy's shooting in Dallas. Violence had claimed the second of Joseph Kennedy's sons. 
 Edward was sent to Hyannis Port to break the news to his father, who had been disabled by a stroke. He returned to Washington for the televised funeral and burial, the first many Americans had seen of him. He and Robert had planned to read excerpts from John's speeches at the Arlington burial service. At the last moment they chose not to. 
 A friend described him as ''shattered -- calm but shattered.''
 A Deadly Plane Crash
 Robert moved into the breach and was immediately discussed as a presidential prospect. Edward became a more prominent family spokesman.
 The next year, he was up for re-election. A heavy favorite from the start, he was on his way to the state convention that was to renominate him when his light plane crashed in a storm near Westfield, Mass. The pilot and a Kennedy aide were killed, and Mr. Kennedy's back and several ribs were broken. Senator Birch Bayh of Indiana pulled Mr. Kennedy from the plane.
 The senator was hospitalized for the next six months, suspended immobile in a frame that resembled a waffle iron. His wife, Joan, carried on his campaign, mainly by advising voters that he was steadily recovering. He won easily over a little-known Republican, Howard Whitmore Jr.
 During his convalescence, Mr. Kennedy devoted himself to his legislative work. He was briefed by a parade of Harvard professors and began to develop his positions on immigration, health care and civil rights. 
 ''I never thought the time was lost,'' he said later. ''I had a lot of hours to think about what was important and what was not and about what I wanted to do with my life.''
 He returned to the Senate in 1965, joining his brother Robert, who had won a seat from New York. Edward promptly entered a major fight, his first. President Lyndon B. Johnson's Voting Rights Act was up for consideration, and Mr. Kennedy tried to strengthen it with an amendment that would have outlawed poll taxes. He lost by only four votes, serving lasting notice on his colleagues that he was a rapidly maturing legislator who could prepare a good case and argue it effectively.
 Mr. Kennedy was slow to oppose the war in Vietnam, but in 1968, shortly after Robert decided to seek the presidency on an antiwar platform, Edward called the war a ''monstrous outrage.''
 Robert Kennedy was shot on June 5, 1968, as he celebrated his victory in the California primary, becoming the third of Joseph Kennedy's sons to die a violent death. Edward was in San Francisco at a victory celebration. He commandeered an Air Force plane and flew to Los Angeles.
 Frank Mankiewicz, Robert's press secretary, saw Edward ''leaning over the sink with the most awful expression on his face.''
 ''Much more than agony, more than anguish -- I don't know if there's a word for it,'' Mr. Mankiewicz said, recalling the encounter in ''Edward M. Kennedy: A Biography,'' by Adam Clymer (William Morrow, 1999).
 Robert's death draped Edward in the Kennedy mantle long before he was ready for it and forced him to confront his own mortality. But he summoned himself to deliver an eloquent eulogy at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York.
 ''My brother need not be idealized, or enlarged in death beyond what he was in life, to be remembered simply as a good and decent man, who saw wrong and tried to right it, saw suffering and tried to heal it, saw war and tried to stop it,'' Mr. Kennedy said, his voice faltering. ''Those of us who loved him and who take him to his rest today pray that what he was to us and what he wished for others will someday come to pass for all the world.''
 A New Role as Patriarch
 After the funeral, Edward Kennedy withdrew from public life and spent several months brooding, much of it while sailing off the New England coast.
 Near the end of the summer of 1968, he emerged from seclusion, the sole survivor of Joseph Kennedy's boys, ready to take over as family patriarch and substitute father to John's and Robert's 13 children, seemingly eager to get on with what he called his ''public responsibilities.''
 ''There is no safety in hiding,'' he declared in August in a speech at College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. ''Like my brothers before me, I pick up a fallen standard. Sustained by the memory of our priceless years together, I shall try to carry forward that special commitment to justice, excellence and courage that distinguished their lives.''
 There was some talk of his running for president at that point. But he ultimately endorsed Hubert H. Humphrey in his losing campaign to Richard M. Nixon.
 Mr. Kennedy focused more on bringing the war in Vietnam to an end and on building his Senate career. Although only 36, he challenged Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana, one of the shrewdest, most powerful legislators on Capitol Hill, for the post of deputy majority leader. Fellow liberals sided with him, and he edged Mr. Long by five votes to become the youngest assistant majority leader, or whip, in Senate history.
 He plunged into the new job with Kennedy enthusiasm. But fate, and the Kennedy recklessness, intervened on July 18, 1969. Mr. Kennedy was at a party with several women who had been aides to Robert. The party, a liquor-soaked barbecue, was held at a rented cottage on Chappaquiddick Island, off Martha's Vineyard. He left around midnight with Mary Jo Kopechne, 28, took a turn away from the ferry landing and drove the car off a narrow bridge on an isolated beach road. The car sank in eight feet of water, but he managed to escape. Miss Kopechne, a former campaign worker for Robert, drowned.
 Mr. Kennedy did not report the accident to the authorities for almost 10 hours, explaining later that he had been so banged about by the crash that he had suffered a concussion, and that he had become so exhausted while trying to rescue Miss Kopechne that he had gone immediately to bed. A week later, he pleaded guilty to a charge of leaving the scene of an accident and was given a two-month suspended sentence.
 But that was far from the end of the episode. Questions lingered in the minds of the Massachusetts authorities and of the general public. Why was the car on an isolated road? Had he been drinking? (Mr. Kennedy testified at an inquest that he had had two drinks.) What sort of relationship did Mr. Kennedy and Miss Kopechne have? Could she have been saved if he had sought help immediately? Why did the senator tell his political advisers about the accident before reporting it to the police?
 The controversy became so intense that Mr. Kennedy went on television to ask Massachusetts voters whether he should resign from office. He conceded that his actions after the crash had been ''indefensible.'' But he steadfastly denied any intentional wrongdoing.
 His constituents sent word that he should remain in the Senate. And little more than a year later, he easily won re-election to a second full term, defeating a little-known Republican, Josiah A. Spaulding, by a three-to-two ratio. But his heart did not seem to be in his work any longer. He was sometimes absent from Senate sessions and neglected his whip duties. Senator Byrd, of West Virginia, took the job away from him by putting together a coalition of Southern and border-state Democrats to vote him out.
 That loss shook Mr. Kennedy out of his lethargy. He rededicated himself to his role as a legislator. ''It hurts like hell to lose,'' he said, ''but now I can get around the country more. And it frees me to spend more time on issues I'm interested in.'' Many years later, he became friends with Mr. Byrd and told him the defeat had been the best thing that could have happened in his Senate career.
 Turmoil at Home
 In the next decade, Mr. Kennedy expanded on his national reputation, first pushing to end the war in Vietnam, then concentrating on his favorite legislative issues, especially civil rights, health, taxes, criminal laws and deregulation of the airline and trucking industries. He traveled the country, making speeches that kept him in the public eye.
 But when he was mentioned as a possible candidate for president in 1972, he demurred; and when the Democratic nominee, George McGovern, offered him the vice-presidential nomination, Mr. Kennedy again said no, not wanting to face the inevitable Chappaquiddick questions.
 In 1973, his son Edward M. Kennedy Jr., then 12, developed a bone cancer that cost him a leg. The next year, Mr. Kennedy took himself out of the 1976 presidential race. Instead, he easily won a third full term in the Senate, and Jimmy Carter, a former one-term governor of Georgia, moved into the White House.
 In early 1978, Mr. Kennedy's wife, Joan, moved out of their sprawling contemporary house overlooking the Potomac River near McLean, Va., a Washington suburb. She took up residence in an apartment of her own in Boston, saying she wanted to ''explore options other than being a housewife and mother.'' But she also acknowledged a problem with alcohol, and conceded that she was increasingly uncomfortable with the pressure-cooker life that went with membership in the Kennedy clan. She began studying music and enrolled in a program for alcoholics.
 The separation posed not only personal but also political problems for the senator. After Mrs. Kennedy left for Boston, there were rumors that linked the senator with other women. He maintained that he still loved his wife and indicated that the main reason for the separation was Mrs. Kennedy's desire to work out her alcohol problem. She subsequently campaigned for him in the 1980 race, but there was never any real reconciliation, and they eventually entered divorce proceedings.
 Although Mr. Kennedy supported Mr. Carter in 1976, by late 1978 he was disenchanted. Polls indicated that the senator was becoming popular while the president was losing support. In December, at a midterm Democratic convention in Memphis, Mr. Kennedy could hold back no longer. He gave a thundering speech that, in retrospect, was the opening shot in the 1980 campaign.
 ''Sometimes a party must sail against the wind,'' he declared, referring to Mr. Carter's economic belt-tightening and political caution. ''We cannot heed the call of those who say it is time to furl the sail. The party that tore itself apart over Vietnam in the 1960s cannot afford to tear itself apart today over budget cuts in basic social programs.''
 Mr. Kennedy did not then declare his candidacy. But draft-Kennedy groups began to form in early 1979, and some Democrats up for re-election in 1980 began to cast about for coattails that were longer than Mr. Carter's.
 After consulting advisers and family members over the summer of 1979, Mr. Kennedy began speaking openly of challenging the president, and on Nov. 7, 1979, he announced officially that he would run. ''Our leaders have resigned themselves to defeat,'' he said.
 The campaign was a disaster, badly organized and appearing to lack a political or policy premise. His speeches were clumsy, and his delivery was frequently stumbling and bombastic. And in the background, Chappaquiddick always loomed. He won the New York and California primaries, but the victories were too little and came too late to unseat Mr. Carter. At the party's nominating convention in New York, however, he stole the show with his ''dream shall never die'' speech.
 With the approach of the 1984 election, there was the inevitable speculation that Mr. Kennedy, who had easily won re-election to the Senate in 1982, would again seek the presidency. He prepared and planned a campaign. But in the end he chose not to run, saying he wanted to spare his family a repeat of the ordeal they went through in 1980. Skeptics said he also knew he could not fight the undertow of Chappaquiddick.
 A Full-On Senate Focus
 Freed at last of the expectation that he should and would seek the White House, Mr. Kennedy devoted himself fully to his day job in the Senate, where he had already led the fight for the 18-year-old vote, the abolition of the draft, deregulation of the airline and trucking industries, and the post-Watergate campaign finance legislation. He was deeply involved in renewals of the Voting Rights Act and the Fair Housing law of 1968. He helped establish the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. He built federal support for community health care centers, increased cancer research financing and helped create the Meals on Wheels program. He was a major proponent of a health and nutrition program for pregnant women and infants.
 When Republicans took over the Senate in 1981, Mr. Kennedy requested the ranking minority position on the Labor and Public Welfare Committee, asserting that the issues before the labor and welfare panel would be more important during the Reagan years. 
 In the years after his failed White House bid, Mr. Kennedy also established himself as someone who made ''lawmaker'' mean more than a word used in headlines to describe any member of Congress. Though his personal life was a mess until his remarriage in the early 1990s, he never failed to show up prepared for a committee hearing or a floor debate.
 His most notable focus was civil rights, ''still the unfinished business of America,'' he often said. In 1982, he led a successful fight to defeat the Reagan administration's effort to weaken the Voting Rights Act.
 In one of those bipartisan alliances that were hallmarks of his legislative successes, Mr. Kennedy worked with Senator Bob Dole, Republican of Kansas, to secure passage of the voting rights measure, and Mr. Dole got most of the credit.
 Perhaps his greatest success on civil rights came in 1990 with passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act, which required employers and public facilities to make ''reasonable accommodation'' for the disabled.
 When the bill was finally passed, Mr. Kennedy and others told how their views on the bill had been shaped by having relatives with disabilities. Mr. Kennedy cited his mentally disabled sister, Rosemary, and his son who had lost a leg to cancer.
 Mr. Kennedy was one of Bill and Hillary Clinton's strongest allies in their failed 1994 effort to enact national health insurance, a measure the senator had been pushing, in one form or another, since 1969.
 But he kept pushing incremental reforms, and in 1997, teaming with Senator Hatch, Mr. Kennedy helped enact a landmark health care program for children in low-income families, a program now known as the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or S-Chip.
 He led efforts to increase aid for higher education and win passage of Mr. Bush's No Child Left Behind Act. He pushed for increases in the federal minimum wage. He helped win enactment of the Medicare prescription drug benefit, one of the largest expansions of government health aid.
 He was a forceful and successful opponent of the confirmation of Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court. In a speech delivered within minutes of President Ronald Reagan's nomination of Mr. Bork in 1987, Mr. Kennedy made an attack that even friendly commentators called demagogic. 
 Mr. Bork's ''extremist view of the Constitution,'' Mr. Kennedy said, meant that ''Robert Bork's America is a land in which women would be forced into back-alley abortions, blacks would sit at segregated lunch counters, rogue police could break down citizens' doors in midnight raids, and schoolchildren could not be taught about evolution, writers and artists could be censored at the whim of government, and the doors of the federal courts would be shut on the fingers of millions of Americans.''Some of Mr. Kennedy's success as a legislator can be traced to the quality and loyalty of his staff, considered by his colleagues and outsiders alike to be the best on Capitol Hill.
 ''He has one of the most distinguished alumni associations of any U.S. senator,'' said Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University who has worked in Congress. ''To have served in even a minor capacity in the Kennedy office or on one of his committees is a major entry in anyone's resume.''
 Those who have worked for Mr. Kennedy include Stephen G. Breyer, appointed to the Supreme Court by President Clinton; Gregory B. Craig, now the White House counsel; and Kenneth R. Feinberg, the Obama administration's top official for compensation.
 A Place in History
 Mr. Kennedy ''deserves recognition not just as the leading senator of his time, but as one of the greats in its history, wise in the workings of this singular institution, especially its demand to be more than partisan to accomplish much,'' Mr. Clymer wrote in his biography. 
 ''The deaths and tragedies around him would have led others to withdraw. He never quits, but sails against the wind.''
 Mr. Kennedy is survived by his wife, known as Vicki; two sons, Edward M. Kennedy Jr. of Branford, Conn., and Representative Patrick J. Kennedy of Rhode Island; a daughter, Kara Kennedy Allen, of Bethesda, Md.; two stepchildren, Curran Raclin and Caroline Raclin; and four grandchildren. His former wife, Joan Kennedy, lives in Boston.
 Mr. Kennedy is also survived by a sister, Jean Kennedy Smith, of New York. On Aug. 11, his sister Eunice Kennedy Shriver of Potomac, Md., died at age 88. Another sister, Patricia Kennedy Lawford, died in 2006. His sister Rosemary died in 2005, and his sister Kathleen died in a plane crash in 1948. 
 Their little brother Teddy was the youngest, the little bear whom everyone cuddled, whom no one took seriously and from whom little was expected. 
 He reluctantly and at times awkwardly carried the Kennedy standard, with all it implied and all it required. And yet, some scholars contend, he may have proved himself the most worthy.
 ''He was a quintessential Kennedy, in the sense that he had all the warts as well as all the charisma and a lot of the strengths,'' said Norman J. Ornstein, a political scientist at the American Enterprise Institute.
 ''If his father, Joe, had surveyed, from an early age up to the time of his death, all of his children, his sons in particular, and asked to rank them on talents, effectiveness, likelihood to have an impact on the world, Ted would have been a very poor fourth. Joe, John, Bobby ... Ted.
 ''He was the survivor,'' Mr. Ornstein continued. ''He was not a shining star that burned brightly and faded away. He had a long, steady glow. When you survey the impact of the Kennedys on American life and politics and policy, he will end up by far being the most significant.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Thursday with the continuation of the obituary of Senator Edward M. Kennedy misidentified two of his sisters and omitted a third in some editions. Shown in the picture, of the Kennedy clan in 1934, were front row, from left: Patricia, Rose, Joe (holding 2-year-old Edward), Rosemary, Eunice and Kathleen. (In some editions, Eunice's name was omitted, and in some editions Rosemary and Kathleen were reversed.) 
An article last Sunday about the death of Edward M. Kennedy in August misstated the length of his tenure in the Senate. He served 47 years, not 46 years. (The error appeared in Mr. Kennedy's obituary and another article, about memories of the Senator, on Aug. 27, and also in an editorial that day. The error was repeated in an article on Aug. 28 about how the Senate had changed during the time he served.) The article also referred incorrectly to the assassination of his brother President John F. Kennedy. The president was assassinated in 1963, the year after Edward Kennedy was elected to the Senate -- not the same year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIRELESS CHAMPION: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, preparing to speak at a 2001 patients' bill of rights rally at the Capitol.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
A DYNASTY IN THE MAKING: In a 1934 portrait, Rose and Joseph P. Kennedy, holding Edward, 2, the baby of nine (the eldest, Joseph Jr., is not pictured). From left, front: Patricia, Rosemary, Eunice and Kathleen. Back: John, Jean and Robert. ''My babies were rocked to political lullabies,'' Rose Kennedy once said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CORBIS/BETTMANN-U.P.I. REUTERS)
THE BROTHERS: John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy and Edward M. Kennedy, in July 1960. Three years later, Robert, left, and Edward, right, would flank John's widow, Jacqueline Kennedy, in the funeral procession for the slain president. In 1968, an assassin's bullet felled Robert, then a presidential candidate.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
CHAPPAQUIDDICK: Senator Kennedy in 1969 after pleading guilty to leaving the scene of an accident. Mary Jo Kopechne, 28, was killed in the crash on Chappaquiddick Island.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A18)
A FAILED BID: At the 1980 Democratic convention, Mr. Kennedy lost the nomination to President Jimmy Carter, but told the crowd at Madison Square Garden, ''the cause endures, the hope still lives and the dream shall never die.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A SENATE LION: Mr. Kennedy, questioning Samuel A. Alito Jr. at his confirmation hearing as a Supreme Court justice in January 2006.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BACKING OBAMA: An Obama rally at American University in January 2008,when Mr. Kennedy voiced his support for Mr. Obama's presidential bid.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); BRAIN CANCER (89%); CANCER (89%); FAMILY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CHILDREN (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); ONCOLOGY (71%); HEALTH CARE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (51%)

TED KENNEDY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



721 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Obama Offers Tribute to 'a Defender of a Dream'

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: OAK BLUFFS, Mass. 

 BODY:
President Obama on Wednesday praised the life and legacy of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, calling him ''one of the most accomplished Americans ever to serve our democracy.''
 ''His ideas and ideals are stamped on scores of laws, and reflected in millions of lives,'' Mr. Obama said. ''In seniors who know new dignity, in families who know new opportunity, in children who know education's promise -- and in all who can pursue their dream in an America that is more equal and more just, including myself.''
 The president echoed the sentiment expressed by political figures of both parties across America and around the world who paid tribute to the Massachusetts senator. 
 An era of Democratic politics and 30 years separated Mr. Obama and Mr. Kennedy, but they grew exceedingly close during the presidential race last year, when Mr. Kennedy's endorsement provided a critical lift to Mr. Obama's candidacy. They last saw each other three months ago, but aides said they spoke occasionally by phone, largely about the president's challenge in remaking the nation's health care system. 
 The president did not mention legislation during a brief televised statement. It was premature, administration officials said, to know if the senator's death would change the course of a bitter Congressional debate on health care.
 ''His extraordinary life on this earth has come to an end. His extraordinary work lives on,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking from the Blue Heron Farm in the town of Chilmark. ''For his family, he was a guardian. For America, he was a defender of a dream.''
 Word that Mr. Kennedy had succumbed to brain cancer reached Mr. Obama as he vacationed on Martha's Vineyard, just across the Nantucket Sound from the Kennedy compound in Hyannis Port. An aide woke up the president with the news shortly after 2 a.m. He conveyed his condolences in a telephone call to Mr. Kennedy's wife, Vicki, at about 2:25 a.m., said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary.
 An American flag, which was lowered to half-staff shortly after sunrise in Oak Bluffs, waved in the breeze against the backdrop of the rippling Atlantic. Residents and tourists on this tiny Massachusetts island gathered around televisions in cafes to watch coverage of the senator's death. 
 ''His fight has given us the opportunity that was denied us when his brothers John and Robert were taken from us,'' Mr. Obama said, ''the blessing of time to say thank you and goodbye.''
 Funeral arrangements have not been announced, but aides said Mr. Obama would deliver a eulogy at the funeral Mass. It is a bookend to his first appearance with Mr. Kennedy at the Democratic National Convention in 2004, when Mr. Obama was preceded on stage in Boston for his national political debut by Mr. Kennedy in a symbolic showcase of the party's dean and its new generation.
 ''I valued his wise counsel in the Senate, where, regardless of the swirl of events, he always had time for a new colleague,'' Mr. Obama said earlier Wednesday in a statement. ''I cherished his confidence and momentous support in my race for the presidency.''
 The decision by Mr. Kennedy, the patriarch of the Democratic Party, to support Mr. Obama's candidacy served as a critical moment in the long primary fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. For weeks, the Clintons had implored Mr. Kennedy to stay neutral in the race, but on Jan. 28, 2008, he said he grew troubled by the tone of the campaign and issued his endorsement before campaigning across the country on Mr. Obama's behalf.
 His decision to back Mr. Obama created a significant rift with former President Bill Clinton, associates of both men have said, which forever changed their relationship. Mr. Kennedy appeared with Mr. Obama at American University in Washington, asking Democrats ''to turn the page on the old politics of misrepresentation and distortion.''
 ''He will be a president who refuses to be trapped in the patterns of the past,'' Mr. Kennedy said that day, interrupting his speech more than once to embrace Mr. Obama. ''He is a leader who sees the world clearly without being cynical.''
 Mr. Obama told friends that appearing with Mr. Kennedy and other members of the family at American University was among his favorite moments of the campaign.
 As Mr. Kennedy's battle with brain cancer wore on in recent months, he would occasionally speak by telephone to Mr. Obama. There was considerable speculation that during Mr. Obama's vacation to Martha's Vineyard this week, he would visit Mr. Kennedy and his family, but aides said the senator's condition was too grave and a presidential visit would be too disruptive.
 ''For five decades, virtually every major piece of legislation to advance the civil rights, health and economic well being of the American people bore his name and resulted from his efforts,'' Mr. Obama said in his statement on Wednesday morning. He added, ''The Kennedy family has lost their patriarch, a tower of strength and support through good times and bad.''
 Mr. Obama is scheduled to vacation on Martha's Vineyard through Sunday. Aides said that there were no immediate plans for him to visit the Kennedy family, but his schedule was pending until funeral arrangements for the senator were announced. 
 Others across the political landscape, both in the United States and abroad, echoed the president's sentiments early Wednesday.
 Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the Senate majority leader, said: ''The Kennedy family and the Senate family have together lost our patriarch... . The liberal lion's mighty roar may now fall silent, but his dream shall never die.''
 But Mr. Kennedy's death also evoked impassioned expressions of sympathy and respect from across the aisle.
 A senior Senate Republican, Orrin Hatch of Utah, said, ''I have to say there are very few people in my lifetime that I've had more respect, and now reverence, for, than Ted Kennedy.'' He called the late lawmaker ''an iconic, larger-than-life United States senator whose influence cannot be overstated.''
 Former Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain called Senator Kennedy ''a great and good man'' who had inspired ''admiration, respect and devotion, not just in America but around the world.'' 
 He lauded Mr. Kennedy for his efforts to promote peace in Northern Ireland: ''I saw his focus and determination firsthand in Northern Ireland, where his passionate commitment was matched with a practical understanding of what needed to be done to bring about peace and to sustain it. I was delighted he could join us in Belfast the day devolved government was restored. My thoughts and prayers today are with all his family and friends as they reflect on the loss of a great and good man.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); POLITICS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CHILDREN (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); BRAIN CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); TED KENNEDY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



722 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Jersey City Is Hoping Success Will Rub Off

BYLINE: By JOSHUA ROBINSON

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy knows that a decade ago, the idea of a golf tournament here -- one featuring Tiger Woods and a national television audience, no less -- would have been preposterous. 
 Jersey City was an old industrial town, depressed and crime-ridden. When golfers were looking for one of New Jersey's many world-class courses, they never stopped here. 
 ''You'd have been greeted with guffaws,'' Healy said. 
 But since 2006, the city has been home to the Liberty National golf club, with its scenic views of Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty. This week, the course will host the Barclays, the first of four events in the FedEx Cup playoffs, and the eyes of the golf world will turn to Jersey City. 
 Healy hopes it will give the city's urban redevelopment a boost. According to Peter Mele, the executive director of the Barclays, the economic impact of the tournament should be $30 million to $40 million, primarily through hotels, restaurants and taxes -- though it is difficult to be certain because Jersey City has never hosted the event. In addition, Mele said that under the P.G.A.'s policy of donating the net proceeds of tournaments to charity, the Barclays hopes to leave more than $1 million behind.
 ''With the current state of the economy and charity dollars drying up, that contribution becomes especially important,'' Mele said.
 Jersey City is New Jersey's second largest city, but its growth has not always been smooth.
 Over the last half-century, it was ravaged by the same urban decay that was eating away at old industrial cities across the country. Violent crime surged and residents left for the suburbs. From 1950 to 1980, Jersey City lost 75,000 residents. And from 1975 to 1982, it lost 5,000 jobs, or 9 percent of its workforce. As was the case in New York City, it took until the 1990s for the authorities to get a handle on crime, and problems persisted through the end of the decade.
 In recent years, however, under a policy of urban renewal, Jersey City has adopted a strategy similar to that of other cities in Hudson County. Like Hoboken, it has marketed itself as a convenient home for Wall Street employees and others who work in Lower Manhattan, full of luxury waterfront condominiums and spectacular views of the Manhattan skyline.
 But for the Barclays, working in a redeveloping urban area is a new experience. From 1967 to 2007, the tournament was held at Westchester Country Club in Harrison, N.Y. Last year, it moved to Ridgewood Country Club in Paramus, N.J.
 ''We looked closely at how they did,'' Healy said. ''And with all due respect to Paramus, we think Jersey City has a lot more to offer.''
 Healy's office has been particularly aggressive in promoting the city's 1,500 hotel rooms and more than 150 restaurants, hoping to attract some of the 25,000 fans expected each day. The proximity of Manhattan -- a quick ride away on a PATH train, a bus or a ferry -- had made that campaign a challenge.
 Healy said he was counting on programs like New Jersey's Urban Enterprise Zones, which allow certain retailers to charge a 3.5 percent sales tax, as opposed to 7, to make Jersey City appealing to visitors.
 For some local business owners, though, the Barclays could stand as an unfulfilled promise. John Makrogiannis, who has operated the Liberty Park Cafe, across the street from Liberty National, for 12 years, said the tournament could hurt his business. 
 Fans are being encouraged to park in Bayonne, where shuttle buses will take them to the course. That, Makrogiannis said, means they will go straight to the concessions inside the grounds and not to nearby businesses.
 Still, he is hoping for business from the tournament's support staff. In his experience with large events in the area, particularly those around the Fourth of July, when crowds converge on Liberty State Park to watch the fireworks, the best days for business are in the buildup.
 ''For all those things, I do well during the preparations,'' he said. ''The day they actually have the event is my worst day because they close all the streets and no one can walk past.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MAYORS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); CHARITIES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); RESTAURANTS (67%); SUBURBS (63%)

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (51%); SIC7997 MEMBERSHIP SPORTS & RECREATION CLUBS (51%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



723 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Counting Up Stimulus Jobs Is Not Easy In New York

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Hardly a day has passed in the six months since President Obamasigned the $787 billion stimulus package without an elected official announcing how a chunk of the $5 billion or so that is coming to New York City will be spent.
 The money has been designated for a wide variety of uses, including road and bridge repairs ($215 million), summer jobs for teenagers and young adults ($18.5 million), public-housing improvements ($374.2 million), food stamps ($841 million) and Medicaid ($1.59 billion).
 But counting the money coming in is a much simpler task than trying to measure just how many jobs the stimulus money will create. Based on the $3.25 billion already allocated, the city estimates that 30,776 jobs will be created by early 2011.
 The amount that has actually been spent and the jobs that have already been created are a fraction of those figures, officials say, though no precise numbers are available. The projections of how many jobs the stimulus program will create or save in the city have brought accusations from the city's comptroller, William C. Thompson, that the mayor's office has resorted to ''puffery.'' 
 In one example, the city government's online tracker of stimulus funds attributes nearly 5,000 jobs to a scheduled replacement of ramps that lead to the main ferry terminal on Staten Island. That project is budgeted at $175 million.
 Meanwhile, a planned railroad tunnel under the Hudson River, which will cost about 50 times as much, is supposed to produce only about 6,000 construction jobs.
 ''As you are aware, the effort to measure the impact of federal stimulus dollars on local labor markets is, at this point, extremely speculative,'' said Mr. Thompson, the likely challenger to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in the November election, said in a letter to the mayor. The comptroller said the mayor had more than doubled the job-generating effect of the money.
 Even one of the ferry terminal project's biggest champions was unsure how the jobs estimate was calculated. Representative Michael E. McMahon, a Democrat from Staten Island, said the company hired to rebuild the ramps to the terminal would employ 100 to 200 people at the site once the work got going in the fall.
 The construction company, Conti Group, has leased offices near the terminal as a base of operations. Once Conti has workers on the site, tearing down the 60-year-old ramps and replacing their steel bases, the ripple effect will take hold, Mr. McMahon said. Those workers will spend their pay on lunches from nearby delis, and their employer surely will buy supplies from local merchants, purchases that could spur additional hiring in the neighborhood.
 Add it all up, he said, and ''you get into the hundreds'' of jobs. But, he added, ''I don't see how you get thousands.''
 Still, Mr. McMahon did not want to foreclose the possibility of such a boon from a single repair project. ''If you find out it's thousands, would you let me know?'' he said.
 City officials said they have used established federal formulas for estimating jobs for each project that is receiving stimulus money. On the ferry terminal project, they cited a United States Department of Transportation standard of about 28 jobs created, both directly and indirectly, for every $1 million spent. The comptroller countered that the more conservative ratio of 11 jobs per $1 million recommended by the president's Council of Economic Advisers would have been more realistic.
 ''There's no incentive for us to inflate the numbers,'' said Jeffrey A. Kay, director of the mayor's office of operations.
 Mr. Kay said he had no good answer yet for exactly how many jobs in the city would be created. But he said the city was obligated to report an actual count of people employed in those projects by Oct. 10. 
 Claims about the job-creating powers of the stimulus act have stirred controversy across the country. As the national unemployment rate climbed past 9 percent, Republican leaders and conservative critics have repeatedly questioned the Obama administration's projection that 3.5 million jobs would be created or saved by early 2011.
 About one of every 16 of those jobs -- a total of 215,000 -- was supposed to be in New York State. But that estimate came from the president's Council of Economic Advisers, not from state officials.
 Gov. David A. Paterson had been making forecasts about job creation with each announcement about the allocation of additional stimulus funds. In July, for example, he said that $33.1 million to be spent fixing highways and bridges in the city would create 794 jobs.
 Since then, the governor's office has stopped volunteering such estimates, acknowledging the lack of precision they entail, said David Neustadt, a spokesman for the governor.
 Infrastructure projects have received much of the attention in the debate over the stimulus because they are so tangible. But in New York City, some of the biggest targets of the federal funding have been benefits programs like Medicaid and food stamps.
 The city's nearly $1.6 billion in Medicaid relief will simply reduce the city's share of its Medicaid burden, Mr. Kay said. But the $841 million for food stamps went directly to the program's recipients, who received a 13.6 percent increase in benefits in April. 
 Over the next two years, the city expects to spend about $1.9 billion of the stimulus on schools. Without it, city officials have said, the Department of Education would have had to lay off thousands of teachers.
 ''That money's ready to be spent,'' Mr. Kay said.
 So far, Mr. Kay said, city officials have concentrated on spending money that could or had to be spent quickly. Much of the infrastructure money came with a use-it-or-lose-it ultimatum from the federal government. So city officials swapped some of it into projects, like the ferry terminal ramps, that had already been budgeted.
 ''What the city has done well is, we're supposed to have shovel-ready jobs. We have them,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in a radio interview this month. ''We're doing a whole bunch of things that we had ready to go, been approved, been through all of the democratic processes, done environmental reviews and all of that stuff, and everything is there and is going ahead now.''
 Public housing projects will receive new roofs, brickwork and elevators, as well as 56,000 new refrigerators and 22,000 stoves that are more energy-efficient.
 Nearly $36 million will enable the Police Department to hire 125 new transit officers, which will allow more experienced officers to be utilized in anti-terrorism teams; an additional $3.5 million will help pay for community courts in Midtown and Red Hook, Brooklyn.
 An anti-graffiti measure in parks and playgrounds will get $300,000; a further $1 million or so will help employ people to perform maintenance and repairs in neighborhoods with high rates of foreclosure and abandonment. 
 Still, analysts said it was too soon to tell how New York compared with other cities in using the stimulus money to spur a turnaround of its economy.
 ''A very small percentage of stimulus dollars have actually been spent'' across the country, said Eric Gillespie, chief information officer of Onvia, a Seattle company that has created an online database of stimulus-funded contracts. Only minor progress has been made ''in terms of dollars landing in the hands of people who are going to spend it and create the mythical new jobs,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: STIMULUS FOR JOBS, BUT HOW MANY?: According to the mayor's office, New York City's share of the money from the federal stimulus bill -- $3.25 billion has been allocated so far -- will generate more than 30,000 jobs. (Source: New York City Mayor's Office of Operations) (pg.A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MEDICAID (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); FERRIES (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



724 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Star Power Has Shed Light On FedEx Cup

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

 BODY:
The hint has been there almost every week of the 2009 golf season, on screen during commercial breaks of PGA Tour events. Tiger Woods, who missed last year's playoffs while recovering from knee surgery, whistles ''Eye of the Tiger'' as he laces up his spikes and subtly promotes the FedEx Cup in a series of television spots.
 The final piece of the third version of the Playoffs for the FedEx Cup puzzle fell into place last week, when Woods committed to play in the Barclays, the series opener that he skipped in 2007. The official announcement was made Friday, before the close of play at the Wyndham Championship. But an unofficial announcement came earlier this year, when Woods indicated he would do what he could to help the PGA Tour with sponsor relations. 
 So he is on board at Liberty National and game for what is expected to be all four playoff events. That helps the event, and his presence is not without self-interest. The field of 124 will tee off on Thursday in the start of the monthlong competition for the richest prize in golf -- purses of $7.5 million per event and a $10 million cash bonus to the FedEx Cup champion.
 Also on hand will be golf's No. 2, Phil Mickelson, and a global field that includes 35 of the 36 eligible players from the top 50 in the world rankings. Players must be members of the PGA Tour to be eligible, and only No. 3 Paul Casey of England, who is out with a rib injury, is missing. The worldwide cast has players representing the United States, England, Ireland, Japan, Sweden, Spain, Australia, South America, South Africa, Canada and South Korea. 
 Combine the strong field with the revamped points system, now reworked to such a fine point that PGA officials guarantee that any player among the top five seeds in the finale could win the Cup, and this year's competition could be the most entertaining yet.
 ''The impact of Tiger Woods has been huge,'' said Peter Mele, the executive director of the Barclays. ''I think the numbers are going to be substantial. We had an immediate spike on Friday and Saturday, just judging by the phones here and then most of the ordering being done online.''
 Gaining widespread acceptance among the players has been crucial to raising the profile of the FedEx Cup, which must compete for interest and viewers with college football, the N.F.L. and the United States Open tennis tournament. 
 This required some persuasion and behind-the-scenes lobbying by PGA Tour brass, and, in the end, a realization among players that their sport was not, in fact, impervious to the global recession.
 Throughout the season, PGA Tour players heeded the preseason request by the commissioner, Tim Finchem, to go out of their way to let sponsors know how much they were appreciated. Woods hosted a day of golf for some tournament sponsors the week before the Arnold Palmer Invitational, and Rocco Mediate and other rank-and-file players spent more time with the pro-am partners and sponsors.
 Then there were the commercial spots, spare and effective shots of golfers talking to the camera about the playoffs. They used no teleprompters, and the endorsements appeared to have authenticity and sincerity.
 Ian Poulter flatly stated what winning the FedEx Cup would mean, ''You will have had the best season of anybody in the world.'' And Padraig Harrington, who won the British Open and the P.G.A. Championship in 2008 to have what was widely considered the best season of anybody, added, ''Down the road, people will look and say, 'Well, how many FedEx Cups did you win?' ''
 With that statement, he is taking the long view, understanding that victories in the major championships are still the gold standard and that the Playoffs for the FedEx Cup -- which Woods called ''the most grueling'' championship -- are more about the gold.
 Whether the playoffs will ever achieve a comparable position will turn on whether they can sustain fan interest, television ratings and sponsorship money. Nevertheless, the buzz this year has been more positive and the questions fewer, the result of the adjustments to the points system made to ensure the competition is not over before it is over. 
 ''We compete against football in September,'' said Brandt Snedeker, who is over his injuries and in the FedEx Cup at No. 64 in the Cup standings. ''It's going to be tough to draw fans. Having Tiger Woods playing in the Tour Championship against Phil and Ernie, all those guys, nobody knows who is going to win yet, it will be great. It will be good for golf and something we need.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); RANKINGS (87%); TENNIS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (69%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (90%); PHIL MICKELSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (86%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%); JAPAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



725 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Drug Accusations Against Afghan Official Pose Dilemma for U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN and MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It was a heated debate during the Bush administration: What to do about evidence that Afghanistan's powerful defense minister was involved in drug trafficking? Officials from the time say they needed him to help run the troubled country. So the answer, in the end: look the other way.
 Today that debate will be even more fraught for a new administration, for the former defense minister, Marshal Muhammad Qasim Fahim, stands a strong chance of becoming the next vice president of Afghanistan.
 In his bid for re-election, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan has surrounded himself with checkered figures who could bring him votes: warlords suspected of war crimes, corruption and trafficking in the country's lucrative poppy crop. But none is as influential as Marshal Fahim, his running mate, whose trajectory in and out of power, and American favor, says much about the struggle the United States has had in dealing with corruption in Afghanistan. 
 As evidence of the tensions, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton bluntly told Mr. Karzai that running with Marshal Fahim would damage his standing with the United States and other countries, according to one senior administration official. 
 Now, the problem of how to grapple with Marshal Fahim adds to the complexity of managing an uneasy relationship with Mr. Karzai. Partial election results show Mr. Karzai leading other contenders, but allegations of fraud threaten to add to the credibility problems facing a second Karzai-led government.
 If Marshal Fahim did take office, the administration official said, the United States would probably consider imposing sanctions like refusing to issue him a travel visa -- something it does with other foreign officials suspected of corruption -- though the official cautioned that the subject had not come up in internal deliberations.
 The United States could take harsher steps, like going after the marshal's finances, but this would be a remarkable move, given the deep American involvement in Afghanistan and the importance of its relationship with the Karzai government, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter.
 And Marshal Fahim is not the only Afghan official forcing such a tricky calculation. This summer President Obamacalled for an investigation of a warlord, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, who is accused of involvement in the killings of thousands of Taliban prisoners of war early in the conflict. That demand fell on deaf ears: Mr. Karzai recently allowed General Dostum to return from exile, reinstating him to his government position. The general, in turn, has endorsed Mr. Karzai and campaigned for him.
 Said Tayeb Jawad, the Afghan ambassador to the United States, said allegations of Marshal Fahim's involvement in drugs were ''politically motivated.''
 As for the Obama administration's opposition to his selection as vice president, Mr. Jawad said he was chosen for ''the role he could play in national unity in Afghanistan, not for his ability to make foreign trips.''
 The Bush administration had felt it had no choice but to rely on the warlords, many of them corrupt and brutal, who wielded power before and during the Karzai era.
 In 2001, when United States forces swept into Afghanistan to overthrow the Taliban, Marshal Fahim, then a general, was a crucial ally as the military commander of the Northern Alliance.
 He worked closely with the Central Intelligence Agency and was rewarded with millions of dollars in cash, according to current and former United States officials. After Mr. Karzai became head of Afghanistan's transitional government, General Fahim was named defense minister.
 In early 2002, at a Rose Garden ceremony with Mr. Karzai, then a darling of the White House, President George W. Bush announced that the United States would help create and train a new Afghan Army. That meant sending millions of dollars in aid to General Fahim and his ministry.
 But by 2002, C.I.A. intelligence reports flowing into the Bush administration included evidence that Marshal Fahim was involved in Afghanistan's lucrative drug trade, according to officials discussing the reports and the internal debate for the first time.
 He had a history of narcotics trafficking before the invasion, the C.I.A. reports showed. But what was most alarming in the reports were allegations that he was still involved after regaining power and becoming defense minister. He now had a Soviet-made cargo plane at his disposal that was making flights north to transport heroin through Russia, returning laden with cash, the reports said, according to American officials who read them. Aides in the Defense Ministry were also said to be involved. 
 The reports stunned some United States officials, and ignited a high-level, secret scramble.
 Hillary Mann Leverett, then director for Afghanistan at the National Security Council, recalled a secure videoconference discussion where the State Department warned it might be illegal to provide military assistance through Marshal Fahim.
 ''They pointed out that if Fahim was involved in narcotics trafficking, then there is a problem because there is a U.S. law that would prohibit military aid provided to a known narcotics trafficker,'' Ms. Leverett said. 
 Alarmed, National Security Council officials took the matter to Stephen J. Hadley, then the deputy national security adviser. Another round of meetings followed, with Mr. Hadley ordering that the delicate debate be kept to a small number of senior administration officials, including Mr. Hadley and John E. McLaughlin, then C.I.A. deputy director, according to Ms. Leverett.
 Meanwhile, the allegations of drug dealing by the top Afghan defense official were also raising concerns at the new American Embassy in Kabul, where officials say they considered whether they could meet with Marshal Fahim or provide him with funds. 
 Some United States officials in Washington and Kabul argued that there was no smoking gun proving his involvement in narcotics trafficking, and thus no need to break off contact with him. And eventually, the Bush administration hit on what officials thought was a solution: American military trainers would be directed to deal only with subordinates to Marshal Fahim, and not Marshal Fahim himself.
 That would at least give the Bush administration the appearance of complying with the law. 
 But as it turns out, both Afghan and American officials now say that Marshal Fahim continued to meet routinely with top American officials, including Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Lt. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry, then the American officer in charge of the military assistance to the new Afghan Army.
 General Eikenberry, now the American ambassador to Afghanistan, said in an e-mail message earlier this year that at the time he was unaware of the debate at the White House and that he was never barred from meeting with Marshal Fahim.
 In hindsight, several current and former administration officials say they have come to believe the decision to turn a blind eye to the warlords and drug traffickers who took advantage of the power vacuum in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks was one of the fundamental strategic mistakes of the Afghan war. It sent a signal to the Afghan people that the most corrupt warlords had the backing of the United States, that the Karzai government had no real power or credibility and that the drug economy was the path to power in the country. 
 By late 2003, officials said, the Bush administration began to realize its mistake, and initiated what officials called its ''warlord strategy'' to try to ease key warlords out of power. Marshal Fahim remained defense ministeruntil 2004 and was briefly Mr. Karzai's running mate as vice president in elections that year, but Mr. Karzai then dropped him. 
 Marshal Fahim remains a powerful figure among Tajiks, the ethnic group in north Afghanistan, and Mr. Karzai, a Pashtun from the south, calculated that an alliance with the general would help him increase his support in northern Afghanistan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A billboard of President Hamid Karzai, right, with his running mate, Muhammad Qasim Fahim.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (64%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (64%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



726 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 751 words

BYLINE: By ALIZA ROSENBAUM, ROB COX and PIERRE BRIANCON

 BODY:
Rising Beer Prices
 Hint at Oligopoly
 Are the big beer companies testing President Obama's tolerance? Anheuser-Busch InBev -- purveyor of the president's preferred brew, Bud Light -- and MillerCoors, a joint venture between SABMiller and Molson Coors, are raising prices at the same time, during a recession and while beer demand is slumping. With 80 percent of the market between them, the move almost begs for an antitrust review. 
 Both brewing groups typically adjust the price on a six-pack every year to reflect changes in the costs of ingredients like barley or hops. But their ability to do so now, while their customers are hurting most, highlights the pricing power that has accompanied industry consolidation. 
 While Anheuser-Busch, acquired last year by InBev of Belgium, has long held a dominant share of the market, the number of big players has decreased. From 1947 to 1995, the number of American brewers fell by more than 90 percent. Though a surge in craft producers followed, few compete directly with mass-market suds like Budweiser or Miller. 
 That was fine so long as the Big Three -- Anheuser, Miller and Coors Brewing -- were at one another's throats. And boy, were they. 
 After South African Breweries bought Miller in 2002, it set out to take market share from Bud. Its bigger rival responded by slashing prices. The others were then forced to match. This competition fostered a better outcome for consumers -- indeed, the summer of 2005 was a beer drinkers' dream.
 That's all changed. SABMiller and Molson Coors kicked off a joint venture last year that combines the market powers of the second- and third-largest players. InBev, meantime, has no stomach for a price war after its $52 billion debt-financed splurge on Anheuser.
 The Obama administration is taking a tougher line on monopolistic behavior. Christine Varney, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, has even signaled a willingness to re-examine deals that were approved under the Bush administration.
 Taking on Big Beer might be politically popular. Moreover, there's precedent for doing so. Years ago, the Justice Department sued to prevent the merger of Pabst, then the 10th-largest brewer, with the 18th biggest, Blatz. The case went to the Supreme Court, which in 1966 ruled the deal was anticompetitive and forced Pabst to divest Blatz. 
 That's not an outcome shareholders of SABMiller, Molson Coors or Anheuser-Busch InBev would toast with pleasure. 
 Right and Risky
 What good is it to be right if you're all alone? President Nicolas Sarkozy of France wants his country to lead the world by example in restricting bankers' bonuses. As usual, Mr. Sarkozy is deploying populism in his latest campaign to ''moralize capitalism.'' 
 He's basically right on substance. He has forced French banks to agree to a code of conduct, threatening to pull government business if they don't respect it. But Mr. Sarkozy will be fighting a losing battle unless he persuades his partners in the Group of 20 leading industrialized nations to follow suit.
 The new code is in line with the general principles agreed at the G-20 meeting last April. French banks will spread bonus payments over three years, with part paid out in shares. There will be a clause empowering banks to claw back payments if the business that originally generated the bonuses turns sour. Furthermore, the banks promise more transparency on how much is paid in bonuses and how they are calculated. 
 Like many voters and some politicians, the president is appalled by what he calls ''the return of bad habits'' in banking. He wants to put an end to the era of profits for a few and risks for all which left taxpayers footing the bill for bankers' excesses.
 But there are two risks to Mr. Sarkozy's stand on bonuses. The first is that it opens up a Pandora's box of hypocrisies, where banks and their lawyers will rush to find ways to circumvent the new rules. The second is that other countries, primarily the United States and Britain, remain cool to the French approach. Actual implementation of the G-20 agreement has been slow, as most governments refrain from legislating on bonuses.
 Mr. Sarkozy is trying the regulation-in-one-country route at a time when he also says he wants to raise Paris's profile as a financial center. At some point, he may come to realize he can't do both.
 ALIZA ROSENBAUM, ROB COX and PIERRE BRIANCON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bottles of Budweiser, part of the Anheuser-Busch InBev stable of beers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (91%); CARTELS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); MERGERS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); APPROVALS (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%)

COMPANY: MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (94%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (90%); SABMILLER PLC (85%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (56%)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (94%); SOSAB (JSE) (85%); SAB (LSE) (85%); BUD (NYSE) (56%); ABI (BRU) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (94%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (94%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (94%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



727 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Good Things Do Come in Pairs

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
''THERE is a certain amount of face time that you need when you have a brand,'' Ashley Olsen said. ''We just wanted to function more behind the scenes.'' 
 It was a sultry afternoon in August, and Ms. Olsen and her sister Mary-Kate were visiting the production office of The Row, their two-year-old fashion label, on West 39th Street. The Olsens, despite being very rich women, have clearly chosen not to spend money on decor. The furniture is nicked, the windows mossy with grime, and the five employees who share the two-room office have to step around a stack of fabric bolts.
 At least a tropical plant on one of the desks offered a bright spot of vitality.
 ''It's fake,'' Ashley said. 
 Her sister, the dreamier of the two, looked at the artificial greenery and said in a tone of rising lightness, ''The table fell over the other day and the pot didn't break and I was so mortified and impressed.''
 This seems to be the classic response to the Olsen sisters as well. To read blogs devoted to them is to feel a queasiness with the fact of the Olsens -- their physical smallness (''the magical millionaire pixies,'' as one site refers to them) and, of course, their wayward style (''bad breath and dirty hair,'' to quote another). Very few celebrities are either so fascinating or appalling that they manage to get under our skins, as Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen have, and it may be because they are twins. Yet their success in a field as competitive as fashion is impossible to deny. The Olsens, who are 23, have succeeded with two different labels simultaneously -- The Row and the hip, less expensive Elizabeth and James -- and without formal design training.
 Elizabeth and James (named for two Olsen siblings) is produced under a license with L'Koral Industries, a denim and contemporary sportswear maker, and is sold in 300 stores, according to its president, Jane Siskin. The brand expects to double its apparel sales this year.
 The Row is really Ashley's brain-child, though the sisters share responsibilities. Nearly four years ago, while a student at New York University and ducking the paparazzi hired to follow her and her sister everywhere, Ashley gave herself the goal of creating, in her eyes, the perfect T-shirt. That was the concept behind The Row: beautiful but practical clothes whose fit and luxurious texture (T-shirts in sheer cashmere, leggings in stretch leather) had private meaning to the people who wore them.
 Most good designers are mad for fit, and true-blue fashion consumers make choices on that basis, but the Olsens saw fit as a kind of ruthlessly modern sensibility. Their chaste black blazer, for example, has a high armhole because the Olsens liked the way Paris couture jackets fit, with high armholes and narrow sleeves that make your arms look even skinnier and longer. Being small, about five feet tall, they have always had a thing about proportion.
 Even though four or five years ago, Mary-Kate and Ashley were the biggest names in tween clothing, thanks to a deal with Wal-Mart, today they're practically aesthetes.
 With The Row outperforming many better-known labels, beleaguered retailers can't help gushing over the Olsens. The company expects annual sales to be 30 percent higher than last year, and Ashley said the line, which recently added men's wear, will break even this year. The company's total sales are estimated at $10 million, company officials say.
 ''To enter the designer apparel arena and build something, that's significant,'' said Jim Gold, the chief executive of Bergdorf Goodman, which carries the Olsens' label. ''I think the way to think about The Row is that it offers the perfect blank -- the perfect schoolboy blazer, the perfect leather leggings, the perfect peacoat. So many designers are intent on the next great trend that some of the basics are neglected.''
 ''Perfect'' was also the word that Julie Gilhart, the fashion director of Barneys New York, used to describe the Olsens' timing. She noted that even before the recession forced a change in spending habits, more and more women were seeking high-quality pieces that didn't go out of fashion. (For that reason, Barneys and other stores generally do not put The Row on sale. Prices range from about $200 for some of the T-shirts to $3,000 for coats, with the top-selling blazer at Bergdorf's at $1,150.)
 ''I don't think anybody really cares that it's Mary-Kate and Ashley's collection,'' Ms. Gilhart said. ''They're buying it because they like it.''
 Maybe, but you can't help wondering how this particular fashion success story was written by two former child stars, and not by a designer with years of experience. And that may be the explanation: the Olsen sisters don't seem to acknowledge the conventional barriers to success, beginning with their famous name. After all, they detached their names from the brand. ''The customer who buys the clothes almost never knows we're involved,'' Ashley said.
 And though Ashley, the alpha sister, came to the meeting in the production office dressed in a plaid cashmere shirt from The Row's fall line and a black miniskirt, the label can't be said to reflect the Olsens' wildly random style -- sometimes, perhaps uncharitably, called Dumpster chic. Mary-Kate, her eyebrows bleached, had on a vintage black leather skirt with a long-sleeve print T-shirt that she last wore, she said, about eight years ago.
 ''The majority of our customers are 35 to 60,'' Ashley said. ''Yeah, I wear a lot of stuff because it's basic. It's that ageless design that we try to focus on, but it's not defined by one of us.''
 Mary-Kate added, ''Also, I think you design things because maybe it's not you.'' She paused. ''I have my own pet peeves about things that I don't wear.''
 Like what?
 Ashley started to laugh.
 ''Like tank tops,'' Mary-Kate said.
 ''You'll never see her in a tank top,'' Ashley said.
 Her sister, who vaguely, surprisingly, has the face of a 1930s film star -- Harlow with bed hair --prefers to be covered up. ''So sometimes,'' Mary-Kate said, ''you design something that you die to wear or love to see somebody else wear.'' 
 It's also true that the Olsens have the luxury of choice. Unlike most young designers, they are enormously wealthy. Forbes estimated their earnings in 2008 at $15 million. They have been working since they were 9 months old, first sharing the role of Michelle Tanner on the popular sitcom ''Full House'' and then as entrepreneurs of their own cutesy image. By 2005, when the sisters assumed the leadership of their company, Dualstar Entertainment Group, and bought out their partner, Mary-Kate and Ashley products -- videos, makeup, clothing, dolls -- were said to generate $1.2 billion in retail sales. 
 Jill Collage, the executive vice president of Dualstar, said that the company's new ventures, like Elizabeth and James, reflect the Olsens' growing up. Ms. Collage, who has worked with the sisters since she was their on-set guardian, declined to reveal sales numbers. 
 And yet, almost perversely, the atmosphere in The Row's cramped office on 39th Street is old school -- before big brands, indeed before celebrity. The Olsens and their production manager, Joe Karban, a veteran of a number of designer studios, including Ralph Lauren's, schlep to the sewing rooms and patternmakers in the garment district. (The label is produced entirely in New York, mostly with Italian fabrics.) And while the sisters may attend the odd fashion show, they are not interested in staging their own.
 ''It's much like the old days at Polo,'' Mr. Karban said. ''The kids on the team are really passionate about making clothes. How do you set a proper sleeve? How does a fabric perform? It's the art of making clothes as opposed to making everything cookie-cutter. Plus everything Mary-Kate and Ashley do turns to gold. Lots of people in the industry are worried about their excess inventory. My reorder business is phenomenal.''
 People who know the Olsens say they have uncanny instincts for what the stylishly obsessed want. ''There's no God that said, 'Create a high-end label and not have your name attached to it,' '' said a friend, Alex Hawgood, who works as a creative consultant on The Row (and formerly was an editorial assistant at The New York Times Magazine). ''That was 100 percent their decision.'' 
 The Olsens don't do many interviews, but in recent ones they have brought up, almost coyly, the perception that they don't work and are lollygagging around with their boyfriends (Mary-Kate dates the artist Nate Lowman; Ashley goes out with the actor Justin Bartha). The sisters, in fact, work very hard, but this slightly scripted moment of self-effacement is meant to serve a larger point: they want you to know they don't really care what people think of them. 
 Mary-Kate and Ashley are older than their years. Everyone says so.
 ''I think Ashley has an old soul,'' said Ms. Siskin, their partner in Elizabeth and James. ''That's really what it is. She's not as good with the whole celebrity thing as people might think. She's longs for a bit of a normal life.''
 And Mary-Kate, who continues to seek out acting jobs, is adept at channeling glamour in a cool way; it was really Mary-Kate's boho layers and oversize glasses that inspired a generational look.
 But they are still 23.
 ''Listen, I used to be in the entertainment industry,'' Ashley said. ''I decided at 18 that I don't really want to do this anymore. I wanted to explore other things, and with that came The Row.'' She looked across the table at her sister and for a moment their eyes locked.
 She continued: ''Our lives have been kind of backward. We never got that opportunity in high school to figure out what you want to do. We never had the time to discover, 'Oh, I love doing this ...' So for us this experience in fashion has been amazing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DYNAMIC FORCES: Mary-Kate, left, and Ashley Olsen have emerged as unlikely designers with their clothing lines The Row, and Elizabeth and James. Above, the twins at their Manhattan warehouse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E1)
WHO'S WHO?: The Olsens have kept their name detached from their brand.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPLASH NEWS)
 THE ROW: From the fall collection, the Manchester leather jacket and the Ludlow dress, above, and the Warrington coat, below. From spring 2010, a classic tank top.(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CELEBRITIES (76%); APPAREL MFG (76%); FABRICS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%)

PERSON: ASHLEY OLSEN (90%); MARY-KATE OLSEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (59%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (71%); ENGLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009



728 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Weakness in the Quarter No Worse Than Expected

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The American economy shrank this spring exactly as much as first reported, the government said on Thursday, leaving intact its original estimate that gross domestic product declined at an annual rate of 1 percent. 
 The revised report did show that businesses cut their inventories more deeply than the government had said in its initial quarterly assessment of G.D.P., which is a broad measure of economic output. But that decline was balanced out by smaller declines in consumer spending and a surge in federal government spending from the stimulus and other measures.
 The government generally revises its first estimate of G.D.P, and the second draft can show far more weakness than its first projections. For example, the government's first report on economic activity after a wrenching fourth quarter of 2008 said the economy had contracted by 3.8 percent; the final figure was a 5.4 percent contraction.
 So for many economists, Thursday's numbers were good news that presaged the end of the recession.
 ''No revision's a good number,'' said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors. ''People were worried that it would turn out the decline was worse than we thought. At this point, a 1 percent decline is really minimal. It really is telling us the recession lost steam almost completely during the spring.''
 Economists had been expecting the number to be revised downward, to a contraction of 1.5 percent. Thursday's report said that businesses cut their inventories by $159.2 billion in the second quarter, suggesting that they were still racing to cut their costs and reduce their stockpiles of goods. But economists said the steeper cuts in inventory reduction could set the stage for a rebound in the last half of the year if production began to tick up again.
 Consumer spending fell at a rate of 1 percent, slightly less than originally reported. 
 In another report released Thursday, the Labor Department said that the number of newly laid-off workers filing claims for jobless benefits dropped last week, while the number of people remaining on long-tem rolls also fell.
 The agency said in a statement that first-time unemployment claims dropped to a seasonally adjusted 570,000, down from an upwardly revised figure of 580,000 the week before. Analysts had expected a 565,000 declined.
 The number of those continuing to claim benefits dropped to 6.13 million from 6.25 million in the previous week.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations.(Source: Commerce Department)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); LAYOFFS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



729 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 AS FIGHTING IN DARFUR EBBS, U.N. TURNS TO SOUTH OF SUDAN
 The departing commander of peacekeeping forces in Darfur said the war there was essentially over. United Nations officials, who mostly agree, are focusing on escalating clashes in Sudan's south. PAGE A4 
 DALAI LAMA TO VISIT TAIWAN 
 The planned visit was quickly denounced by China, giving a new challenge to Taiwan's already politically weakened president. PAGE A4 
 LAW ON CHINESE POLICE FORCE
 China approved a law clarifying how and when the People's Armed Police may be deployed. The paramilitary force's response to riots last month has been criticized. PAGE A6 
 OUTREACH TO MUSLIMS FAULTED
 The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff criticized government efforts to communicate with the Muslim world, saying actions mattered more than message. PAGE A9 
 ATTACK KILLS 22 IN PAKISTAN
 A suicide bomber detonated his explosives while standing among police officers who had gathered to break the Ramadan fast at a post near the Afghan border. PAGE A10 
 IRAN'S LEADER SOFTENS STANCE
 Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said the charge that reformist leaders collaborated with the West to oust the government had not been proved. PAGE A10 
 Plan to End Honduran Impasse A6 
 Israel Given Auschwitz Plans A9 
 Taliban Leader Is Captured A10 
 Obituaries
 ELLIE GREENWICH, 68
 A songwriter who collaborated with others to create a greatest-hits list of 1960s teenage pop songs. PAGE A24 
 National
 LACKING CASH, BUT NOT STUFF, CALIFORNIA HOLDS A YARD SALE
 In a maneuver that signals its desperate finances, California is holding a two-day sell-off of items drawn from every corner of its pack-rat bureaucracy. PAGE A11 
 ARREST IN THREATS TO CLINIC
 Donald Hertz, 70, was arrested in connection to threats made to an abortion clinic in Boulder, Colo. The indictment says he called the clinic and described how the director's family would be killed. PAGE A13 
 SELLING THE BORDER FENCE
 Six people were arrested in Tijuana, Mexico, after they were caught, authorities say, sheering off chunks of the metal fence between Mexico and the United States to sell. PAGE A13 
 A NEW CULPRIT IN OZONE LOSS
 Government scientists who study the depletion of the Earth's protective ozone layer are pointing to a previously unheralded perpetrator: nitrous oxide. PAGE A16 
 Group Wins Specter Donor List A13 
 New York
 LIBYAN LEADER'S PLAN TO VISIT UPSETS A NEW JERSEY TOWN
 Many residents of Englewood, N.J., were aghast to learn that Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, who will address the United Nations, might set up camp in the city. PAGE A17 
 PATERSON FINDS REFUGE AT FAIR
 As David A. Paterson wound down one of his most difficult weeks since becoming New York's governor, he found catharsis at the New York State Fairgrounds. PAGE A18 
 Bloomberg Cash Casts a Shadow A17
 Newark School Welcomes Rival A18
 Business
 A DEFICIT OF $9 TRILLION? DON'T BET ON IT JUST YET
 Ten years ago, the 10-year budget forecasts were dire. They were off by several trillions of dollars. This week came a new 10-year forecast: a $9 trillion deficit. Floyd Norris: High & Low Finance. PAGE B1 
 DELL BEATS ANALYST FORECASTS
 Although profits at Dell fell for the second quarter, its shares surged, and company executives said its commercial business should pick up again in 2010. PAGE B1 
 U.S. WEAKNESS UNCHANGED
 The economy shrank this spring exactly as much as first reported, the government said, leaving intact its original estimate that gross domestic product declined at an annual rate of 1 percent. PAGE B3 
 BANKS LOST $3.7 BILLION
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reported that the banking industry lost $3.7 billion in the second quarter amid a surge in bad loans. PAGE B3 
 TOYOTA TO CLOSE UNION PLANT
 Toyota's directors voted to close the company's only unionized plant in the United States. The plant, in Fremont, Calif., employs 4,700 people. PAGE B3 
 Old Chicago Post Office Is Sold B2 
 Big Loss for Toll Brothers B2 
 Xbox Price Is Cut to Match PS3 B2 
 Sports
 FEDERER AND NADAL LAND ON OPPOSITE SIDES OF DRAW
 The newly unveiled bracket for this year's United States Open laid out a tough path for Roger Federer to win his 16th major title. PAGE B10 
 Taiwan in Little League Final B12 
 Favre and Vikings Try to Adjust B14
 Weekend
 THE OPERA ISN'T OVER TILL THE MET'S VIDEO ENDS
 The Met's Summer HD Festival -- 10 nights of recorded performances -- kicks off on Saturday with a free screening of ''La Fille du Regiment'' by Donizetti. PAGE C1
 RUDE CLOWNS, FUNNY OR NOT
 At this year's New York International Fringe Festival, no show has polarized more theatergoers than ''666,'' a collection of comedy sketches by the group Yllana. PAGE C1 
 HBO's 'True Blood' Gushes C1
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A23 
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); TERRORISM (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); RIOTS (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (70%); RAMADAN (69%); RELIGION (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); INDICTMENTS (66%); POP & ROCK (65%); SONG WRITING (65%); OZONE DEPLETION (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (62%); ABORTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (56%); DAVID PATERSON (53%); ALI KHAMENEI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); EARTH (66%) SUDAN (96%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



730 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
DANCE
 Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance. 
 CEDAR LAKE CONTEMPORARY BALLET (Tuesday through Thursday) A new work by the artistic director of Cedar Lake, Benoit-Swan Pouffer, is set amid the exhibition ''Iran Inside Out'' at the Chelsea Art Museum, using the artworks as inspiration. The piece will be performed to live music by Reza Derakshani, whose paintings are part of the show. At 7:30 p.m., Chelsea Art Museum, 556 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-0719, chelseaartmuseum.org; $25; $20 for students and 65+. (Roslyn Sulcas)20090827 
 'DIAGHILEV'S THEATER OF MARVELS: THE BALLETS RUSSES AND ITS AFTERMATH' (Friday, Saturday and Monday through Thursday) Numerous exhibitions and dance performances throughout the world are celebrating the centennial of that famous first Ballets Russes performance in Paris, and the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts has its own display of scores, costume and set designs, diaries, notebooks, documentary film and rare archival footage. The exhibition displays the extraordinary richness of collaboration (Stravinsky! Picasso! Nijinsky!) that characterized the company's two-decade existence and has so deeply influenced the subsequent course of dance history. (Through Sept. 12.) New York Public Library for the Performing Arts Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 870-1630, nypl.org/lpa; free. (Sulcas)20090827
 FRINGE FESTIVAL: ETCH DANCE COMPANY (Saturday and Sunday) Elisha Clark Halpin's ''Testify'' rather ambitiously takes displacement in Darfur as its subject, and, according to the Fringe Festival Web site, explores ''unrequited love, warfare, devastation, compassion and desire.'' Saturday at 8:45 p.m.; Sunday at 3:30 p.m.; Robert Moss Theater @ 440 Studios, 440 Lafayette Street, near Astor Place, East Village , (212) 864-7827, fringeNYC.org; $15. (Sulcas)20090827
 FRINGE FESTIVAL: FACE THE MUSIC ... AND DANCE! (Saturday) Responding to the current recession, five choreographers (Julian Barnett, Tina Croll, Maura Nguyen Donohue, Heidi Latsky and Noa Sagie) have created a program of works, featuring more than 30 dancers from their companies, to celebrate strength in unity. Saturday at noon, Robert Moss Theater @ 440 Studios, 440 Lafayette Street, near Astor Place, East Village , (212) 529-0259, fringeNYC.org; $15. (Jack Anderson)20090827
 FRINGE FESTIVAL: PATRICIA NOWOROL DANCE COMPANY (Friday and Sunday) In ''Circuits'' this New York company tries to expose the gaps between the glamour of performance and ordinary life. Friday at 7:45 p.m.; Sunday at 1:45 p.m.; Robert Moss Theater @ 440 Studios, 440 Lafayette Street, near Astor Place, East Village , (212) 864-7827, fringeNYC.org; $15. (Sulcas)20090827
 FRINGE FESTIVAL: RIEDEL DANCE THEATER (Friday through Sunday) This troupe performs ''Ukrainian Eggs: Terrible Tales of Tragedy and AlleGorey,'' intended for young viewers and inspired by the charmingly ghoulish drawings of Edward Gorey. Friday at 2:15 p.m.; Saturday at 6:45 p.m.; Sunday at 4:45 p.m.; Robert Moss Theater @ 440 Studios, 440 Lafayette Street, near Astor Place, East Village , (212) 864-7827, fringeNYC.org; $15. (Sulcas)20090827
 JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday) This venerable festival winds up its season with two guaranteed crowd pleasers. At the Ted Shawn Theater, Ballet Hispanico performs a program -- including the premiere of ''Locked Up Laura'' by Annabelle Lopez Ochoa -- dedicated to its departing director, Tina Ramirez. And at the Doris Duke Theater, Doug Elkins's ''Fraulein Maria,'' a dance rendering of ''The Sound of Music'' that is at once hilarious and profound, should most definitely not be missed. Complete listings, including free performances and lectures: jacobspillow.org. 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass. , (413) 243-0745; $33 to $58. (Sulcas)20090827

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fringe Festival: 'Face the Music . . . and Dance!': To celebrate strength in unity, five choreographers have created this program, featuring more than 30 dancers from their companies, playing on Saturday at the Robert Moss Theater. Above, Madelyn Biven in Noa Sagie's ''Degas duck dag.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); DANCERS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); MUSIC (78%); PAINTING (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); SUDAN (78%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



731 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'ADVENTURES IN MODERN ART'; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: A Collector Captured by His Prizes

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
Some collectors are predators: they know what they want and they stalk it patiently. Others are more like prey: the art lures them in or leaps out from behind a bush. As you wander through ''Adventures in Modern Art: The Charles K. Williams II Collection'' at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the second analogy comes to mind.
 ''When I pick a painting or a piece of sculpture,'' Dr. Williams writes in his catalog essay, ''Collecting Art,'' ''I do so because of its special appeal or message, even if the work may not fit tidily into my collection.'' Dr. Williams, an archaeologist and heir to his family's fortune from the mineral pigment industry, isn't cut from the corporate cloth of the typical museum benefactor. He directed the excavations at ancient Corinth for the American School of Classical Studies in Athens from 1966 to 1996, and is a member of the institution's board. 
 You might expect his collection to reflect a classicist's appreciation of sculpture or the idealized forms of ancient art. Neither assumption is correct. Dr. Williams has consistently gravitated to brash, boisterous American painting from the first half of the 20th century (roughly, 1910 to about 1945).
 Many of these works recall the Great Depression, in mood or subject. Dr. Williams was born in Easton, Pa., in 1930, and though his family was wealthy, the plight of others was never out of view. In the catalog he reminisces about ''being aware of labor strikes, witnessing daily discomforts and watching W.P.A. laborers laying pipes for water and sewage.''
 He started to collect in earnest in the 1980s, beginning, as many do, with prints. (In an adjunct to the main exhibition, 37 of his early acquisitions are on view in the hallway leading to the American collection). In the early 1990s, he moved on to drawings, watercolors, paintings and sculptures. Everything in ''Adventures in Modern Art,'' some 100 works in all, has been donated or promised to the museum.
 Regular visitors to the Philadelphia Museum will want to know how his collection measures up to the other Modern holdings, specifically the canonical works bestowed by the Arensbergs, A. E. Gallatin and the Stieglitz estate. Piece for piece, it's not even close. But in its entirety, the Williams collection adds local flavor and is a down-to-earth foil to the museum's Picassos, O'Keeffes and Duchamps.
 It also offers a strong point of view. Whether you admire Dr. Williams's taste -- some viewers may find it unsophisticated -- you have to acknowledge that he knows what he likes. His collection is unified by prismatic color; fractured, Cubist-influenced compositions; and alternating currents of fantasy and Social Realism. Some of his favorite artists, particularly Joseph Stella, seem to embody all of these traits.
 In an introductory triad, Stella's ''Palm Tree and Bird'' (1927-8) is flanked by Arthur Dove's ''Barn Next Door'' (1934) and Morton Schamberg's ''Landscape (With Bridge)'' (1914). It's an unorthodox grouping: Stella's Art Nouveau-phase still life fails to mediate the Dove, a subdued farm scene in mousy grays and browns, and Schamberg's cloying, every-color-in-the-paint-box landscape.
 Schamberg, a relative unknown (his career was truncated by his death in the flu epidemic of 1918), is one of several Philadelphia Modernists in the collection. Others include the precisionists Charles Sheeler and Charles Demuth, who together with George Ault, a New Yorker, make up one of the stronger areas of the exhibition. (Ault, who channels De Chirico, Picabia and the Pictorialists in his spare and alien compositions, feels like a discovery.)
 The regional theme extends to industrial New Jersey landscapes by John Marin and Oscar Bluemner, artists in the Stieglitz circle. Marin's small oils of grain elevators and railyards in Weehawken, made outside in freezing weather, should fit in well with the museum's holdings of his prints and watercolors. And Bluemner's ''Red Port in Winter'' (1922), an Asian-influenced view of the Morris Canal, is the ruby-red jewel of Williams's collection.
 Another standout is Thomas Hart Benton's ''Apple of Discord'' (1949), a large tempera painting that conflates Greek mythology and the Bible, Renaissance composition and postwar screen-goddess glamour. (The female subject, Aphrodite/Eve, has a pompadour and peep-toe pumps.)
 The Benton is surrounded by textbook examples of Social Realism: Ben Shahn's mural sketch of Jewish garment workers, Isabel Bishop's painting of unemployed men in Union Square. Few have the wit of Paul Cadmus's study for ''Aspects of Suburban Life: Polo Spill,'' part of a 1936 commission for the post office in Port Washington, N.Y. Cadmus's Gatsbyesque depiction of a well-heeled crowd recoiling from a disastrous polo match did not sit well with the Treasury Relief Art Project, and the assignment was revoked.
 One weakness of the collection is an archaeologist's obsession with context and classification, often at the expense of originality. That explains Dr. Williams's devotion to Synchromism, a brief, two-artist movement that tried, unsuccessfully, to usurp all the other ''isms.'' It also accounts for the presence of Max Weber's ''Four Figures (Sisters)'' (1912), which tames and clothes Picasso's ''Demoiselles d'Avignon'' for an American audience.
 Dr. Williams also has a predilection for atypical works by major artists. The show's curator, Innis Howe Shoemaker, plays it up by hanging Philip Guston's ''Portrait of Theresa Lewensohn'' (1940) opposite De Chirico's ''Portrait of Carlo Cirelli'' (1915). Neither artist is known for his portraiture.
 Big-game trophies are scarce here, but Philadelphia has plenty. Museums are complex ecosystems, and to thrive they need more than one species of collector.
 ''Adventures in Modern Art: The Charles K. Williams II Collection'' continues through Sept. 13 at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street; (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Stella's still life ''Palm Tree and Bird'' (1927-8).(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); DYES & PIGMENTS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); STRIKES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); ATHENS, GREECE (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



732 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Says It Will Close Its Only Unionized Plant in the U.S. After Its Partner G.M. Dropped Out

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Toyota's directors voted Thursday to close the company's only unionized plant in the United States, a joint venture with General Motors in California that G.M. abandoned as part of its recent bankruptcy.
 The plant, in Fremont, Calif., employs 4,700 people and is the country's only remaining auto plant west of San Antonio. It opened in 1984 as a way for Toyota to experiment with building cars in North America and for G.M. to learn more efficient production techniques from Japan.
 It will become Toyota's first experience with closing a plant in the United States. Production will end by March. 
 Atsushi Niimi, a Toyota executive vice president for North America, said in a statement that officials ''deeply regret having to take this action'' but that ''over the mid- to long-term, it just would not be economically viable'' to maintain the plant.
 The United Automobile Workers union, which represents the plant's hourly workers, called the decision ''illogical'' and ''devastating.'' The U.A.W.'s president, Ron Gettelfinger, said he understood the need to reduce capacity, but he was more critical of Toyota's decision than of other recent cuts by the Detroit automakers.
 The Toyota workers ''deserve better than to be abandoned by this company, which has profited so richly from their labor, their productivity and their commitment to quality,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said in a statement. ''It's unfortunate the company chose to close a U.S. facility after benefiting so greatly from the federal cash-for-clunkers program.''
 Toyota builds the Corolla compact sedan and a pickup truck, the Tacoma, at the plant, which is known as New United Motors Manufacturing, or Nummi. The Corolla was the most popular vehicle in the ''clunkers'' program, which ended this week. Toyota had to bring more workers into Nummi to keep up with demand.
 Toyota said it planned to import the Corolla from Canada and Japan, and it would shift production of the Tacoma to its underutilized truck plant in Texas.
 G.M. discontinued the Pontiac Vibe, a small crossover vehicle built at Nummi, last week. In June, G.M. said its half of the Nummi venture would not be part of the reorganized company, forcing Toyota to determine the plant's future. Mr. Gettelfinger did not mention G.M.'s decision in his statement.
 The move opened the door for Toyota to also leave the venture at a time when it has been hit hard by the global slump in auto sales. Without G.M. acting first, company insiders have said Toyota likely would not have taken the political risk of shutting a union-represented plant.
 California lawmakers have been putting together a package of incentives to encourage Toyota to keep the plant open, and they said Thursday that they would continue their fight. Officials fear the plant's closing could cause the state to lose up to 40,000 jobs.
 Members of U.A.W. Local 2244 in Fremont held a large rally last week, amid rumors that the plant would shut down, and they are planning a second one Saturday in San Francisco.
 Toyota also operates auto plants in Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Texas and West Virginia, but none have a unionized work force. The U.A.W. has been unsuccessful in efforts to organize Toyota workers.
 Given that the vehicles built at Nummi are selling well, Gary N. Chaison, a professor of labor relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., said the Fremont plant's unionized status probably sealed its fate as Toyota evaluated where to make cuts.
 Workers at Nummi are paid slightly more than those at Toyota's other American factories. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); SEDANS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PICKUP TRUCKS (68%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (68%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



733 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: What Recession? Here's a Job Of Dreams

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IN 1957, the Silhouettes offered some recessionary advice in a song titled ''Get a Job.'' Now, during another downturn, Madison Avenue is making like an employment agency, offering fanciful jobs as prizes in sweepstakes, contests and other promotions.
 The trend could be considered complementary to work that consumers have been offered for the last three years: to create advertising, primarily commercials, that appear online and on television. Such user-generated content has even turned up during the Super Bowl, the biggest day of the year on the marketing calendar. 
 Alas, the positions being created now will not put much of a dent in the unemployment rate. Rather, the goal is to pique the curiosity of consumers -- generating attention and conversation -- when they are loath to spend money on much more than necessities.
 ''We were looking for what would have an impact, what would stay with people,'' said Danielle Courtenay, chief marketing officer for the Orlando and Orange County Visitors and Convention Bureau, in Florida. The bureau sponsored a contest to hire a pair of ''smile ambassadors'' whose jobs would be to visit tourist attractions and write about their experiences in social media like Twitter.
 The contest, part of a tourism campaign carrying the theme ''Orlando makes me smile,'' offered jobs that would last 67 days. (The idea is it would take the winners that long to see more than 100 local sights, from museums to theme parks to alligator wrestling.) The pay: $25,000 for the pair to cover expenses back home, a condominium in downtown Orlando, a rental car, cameras and cellphones.
 The contest drew more than 300 entries from 12 countries, Ms. Courtenay said, which were winnowed to 10 pairs of finalists who attended a ''boot camp'' last month where they practiced the duties of their potential jobs.
 The winners, a pair of 25-year-old friends from New York, started work this week, blogging at 67daysofsmiles.com and tweeting on Twitter.com/67Days; their reports can also be found on Facebook (facebook.com/visitorlando).Most of such offbeat jobs are being created by and for travel marketers, which are suffering significantly as the recession discourages consumer wanderlust. Perhaps the best known was a recent contest sponsored by the organization Tourism Queensland offering the ''best job in the world'': a six-month gig to be a caretaker on Hamilton Island in the Great Barrier Reef in the Queensland state of Australia and chronicle the experience.
 The winner of that contest, which drew more than 34,000 entries, was a Briton, Ben Southall, who went to work on July 1, filing reports on Twitter (twitter.com/Bensouthall) and a blog (islandreefjob.com.au).
 Estimates are that the Queensland campaign, which cost about $1 million, received worldwide publicity worth 150 times that. The campaign, which also won numerous advertising awards, was created by Cummins Nitro, part of the Nitro Group unit of Sapient.
 The contest inspired a follow-up campaign, which began this week, featuring four of the 16 finalists promoting vacations in Queensland as the ''best holiday in the world.'' But it does not seem that lightning is striking again; critics are complaining about the commercials because they use a reworked version of a 43-year-old American tune, the theme song from the TV series ''The Monkees.''
 Another travel marketer offering jobs is the Republic of Taiwan Tourism Bureau, with a contest called the Best Trip in the World (taiwanbesttrip.net). The offer: ''Come up with the best Taiwan tour itinerary, take the tour, write about it online'' and win a million Taiwan dollars (about $30,000) for a one-month trip around the island.
 As for fanciful jobs outside the realm of tourism, a British Web site devoted to soccer, goal.com, is sponsoring a writing contest. The prize of a one-month internship that will allow the winner to attend Premier League matches as an accredited journalist.
 But a report on goal.com on Tuesday, announcing the 12 semi-finalists selected to proceed in the contest, highlighted a pitfall of giving away jobs in hard times: ''Regular readers will note that we are slightly late in tabulating the results. This is because the contest was sadly stricken by vote fraud.''
 The irregularities included entrants voting ''for themselves more than once,'' according to goal.com.
 No such problems apparently cropped up during the Florida effort to hire smile ambassadors. Nor were there complaints, Ms. Courtenay said, that a contest during a recession with jobs as prizes trivializes how difficult it may be to find work.
 In fact, the contest is providing a job to one of the two winners, Kyle Post, who in a phone interview wryly described his recent life this way: ''I was busy being an unemployed actor.'' (He had most recently worked in the Broadway production of ''Rent.'')
 The other winner, his friend, Stacey Doornbos, said she had quit her job at a community center in East Harlem after she and Mr. Post won the contest.
 ''It's not just a vacation,'' Ms. Doornbos said of their duties as smile ambassadors. ''It is a job.''
 She may be right: The pair's first work -- a post on Twitter of a photograph showing the view from the balcony of their condo -- came at 5:58 a.m. on Wednesday (twitpic.com/fbon1).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kyle Post and Stacey Doornbos were hired as ''smile ambassadors'' for the Orlando and Orange County Visitors and Convention Bureau. DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); USER GENERATED CONTENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); SWEEPSTAKES (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); TOURISM (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



734 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: To Survive, a Catholic School at Newark Abbey Makes Way for a Rival

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
Gone are the crucifixes in every classroom and the carvings of the Virgin Mary from the airy, red-brick building that has been home to St. Mary's School at the Newark Abbey since 2001.
 The fixtures were relocated -- along with St. Mary's -- to make way for a charter school, Robert Treat Academy, to open a second campus here this month. It is the first time that the Benedictine monks have allowed a nonreligious school to operate on the grounds of the monastery, whose Victorian-style towers span two city blocks in the Central Ward.
 The arrangement generates $150,000 a year in rent for the Newark Abbey, which also operates a Roman Catholic high school for boys, St. Benedict's Preparatory, and underpins a more ambitious plan to share not just space but also resources. Robert Treat is proposing that its students be allowed to use a swimming pool and field house on the grounds and have future access to St. Benedict's Latin and advanced math teachers, and is envisioning sending more of its eighth-grade graduates to St. Benedict's. 
 The Robert Treat Academy, which has an extended school year, began classes down the street from St. Benedict's in a building that was constructed for St. Mary's, which had previously shared space with St. Benedict's. St. Mary's students, who begin classes in September, will have one building of their own, but will largely return to sharing with St. Benedict's.
 ''It's one of those things where everything came together,'' said the Rev. Edwin D. Leahy, the headmaster of St. Benedict's since 1972. ''There could have been dozens of reasons for it not to work, but it just took off.''
 Such collaboration between Catholic and charter schools is unusual, because Catholic leaders have long viewed charter schools, which are publicly financed and independently run, as competing for the same students. Some Catholic officials even contend that charter schools masquerade as Catholic schools because they offer the traditional hallmarks of a Catholic education -- strict discipline, uniforms, specialized programs and character education -- but without charging tuition.
 Yet many Catholic schools, facing declining enrollment and rising operating costs, are seeking new ways to survive. In Washington, seven parochial schools were converted to charter schools and opened last September. In New York, the Bloomberg administration and the Diocese of Brooklyn unveiled a proposal in February to convert four Catholic schools to charters, but later abandoned the idea, which required passing state legislation in Albany. In Bedford-Stuyvesant, community leaders and Catholic school parents are trying to create charter schools from scratch.
 Here in Newark, the archdiocese has closed dozens of schools as enrollment declined to 40,064 last year, from 58,012 in 2000. Jim Goodness, a spokesman for the Archdiocese of Newark, said that it had sought to consolidate parish schools with dwindling classes into regional schools that operated more efficiently; it is opening new regional schools this fall in Elizabeth, Hackensack and Kearny.
 ''This way we know there will be a school,'' he said. ''And the responsibility for that school gets shared with surrounding parishes, and it's not as much of a financial struggle.''
 Although enrollment at St. Mary's and St. Benedict's has remained steady, the Newark Abbey has come under financial pressure as St. Benedict's endowment has shrunk by a third, to $19 million, in the economic downturn, reducing income to support the school by a half-million dollars annually. The abbey is also paying back a $20 million loan for the 2001 construction of the building for St. Mary's, a dorm for 70 St. Benedict's students and an extensive renovation of five other school buildings.
 ''Rather than run the risk of losing St. Mary's down the road,'' Father Leahy said, during a meeting last year he suggested renting out the St. Mary's building to Robert Treat's founder, Stephen N. Adubato Sr. The two men have close ties: Mr. Adubato's grandson is a graduate of St. Benedict's, and Mr. Adubato is a trustee. 
 Robert Treat Academy, which is named after a founder of Newark, has sought to expand as charter schools are taking off across the city. In 2008, 13 Newark charter schools enrolled 4,877 students, up from 10 schools with 2,493 students in 2003, according to New Jersey's Education Department.
 Robert Treat's eight-year lease for the Newark Abbey building is being partly covered by more than $770,000 in start-up money from the Newark Charter School Fund, which is financed by national and local charitable groups, including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. 
 In the meantime, St. Mary's will return to sharing space with St. Benedict's, which it did for more than three decades before moving into its own building. St. Mary's is one of the state's oldest Catholic schools; it was founded in 1842 with 40 students in a church basement and has grown to more than 200 students in kindergarten through eighth grade. The annual tuition is $3,250.
 Sister Teresa Shaw, the principal of St. Mary's since 1992, said that only a handful of families decided not to return this fall because of the move. Also, two former St. Mary's students enrolled at Robert Treat's new campus.
 ''I don't like losing students and I don't know what that means for the life of St. Mary's School,'' said Sister Teresa, who added that the school had weathered previous moves and remained as committed as ever to its mission of providing an ''excellent education'' for the children of Newark.
 Robert Treat opened its new campus with 50 kindergarten and first-grade students selected by lottery from more than 200 applications, and plans to add one grade a year until it reaches eighth grade and a total of 225 students in 2016. (The school's main campus, in the North Ward section, has 450 students). 
 Inside the red-brick building on a recent morning, the crucifixes had been replaced by bright posters and alphabet letters taped to freshly painted yellow walls. In a kindergarten class, 25 Robert Treat students sat straight in their chairs, with their hands clasped together on their desks -- not to say prayers but to quiet fidgety fingers.
 ''We're practicing being five-star listeners,'' Angela McArthur, the teacher, told the children.
 Zion Ruffin, 5, a first grader, said that he switched to the charter school this year after attending kindergarten at a parochial school. He said one change was that prayers were no longer said before lunch. ''Here we eat first so we don't pray,'' he said. ''It's fine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students on the first day of class at the Robert Treat Academy campus at Newark Abbey, which leases space to the school.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



735 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 5308 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE TREASURE OF ULYSSES DAVIS,' through Sept. 6. Ulysses Davis (1914-1990) was a Savannah, Ga., barber who whittled and carved wooden sculptures in his shop when business was slow. Organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, this show is by far the largest presentation of Mr. Davis's sculpture to be seen outside Savannah and the first to reveal the full scope of his imagination. His best-known works, carvings of historical figures, take a backseat to hybrid beasts and hydra-headed figures. It makes clear that he wasn't just a patriotic folk artist, or an African-American artist affirming his heritage, or an inward-looking, visionary artist. He was all of these, which is to say that no single cliche of ''outsider'' art quite fits him. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090827 
 ASIA SOCIETY: YANG FUDONG: 'SEVEN INTELLECTUALS IN A BAMBOO FOREST,' through Sept. 13. Presented in its five-hour entirety for the first time in a United States museum, Mr. Yang's hypnotic five-part black-and-white movie, ''Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest,'' tracks the dreamlike meanderings of a group of fashion-model-pretty young people, from a breathtaking mountain summit to a busy city where the disjunctive imagery becomes increasingly surrealistic and comical. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson)20090827
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'LIVING AND DREAMING,' through Sept. 13. This annual exhibition presents works by young artists who have completed a preparatory program for careers as professionals. Most look as if they could use a few years more of seasoning, but a handful appear to be artists to keep an eye on. The highlights include Eva Davidova's surreal videos; Meredith Drum's enigmatic, low-budget sci-fi film; Nathan Bennett's walk-in room resembling a set for a Stanley Kubrick space odyssey; and Jeffrey Hargrave's mock-racist caricatures. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania , (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090827
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIGHT OF THE SUFIS: THE MYSTICAL ARTS OF ISLAM,' through Sept. 6. ''What's in your head -- throw it away! What's in your hand -- give it up! Whatever happens -- don't turn away from it.'' That's how a 10th-century Persian spiritual master defined the Islamic devotional practice known as Sufism. Countless other definitions have been proposed since, almost as many as for Islam itself. And variety -- paintings, ceramics, mosque lamps, books -- is what you find in this tiny, exquisite show in the Brooklyn Museum's newly reinstalled Islamic galleries. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20090827
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: PATRICIA CRONIN: 'HARRIET HOSMER, LOST AND FOUND,' through Jan. 24. The contemporary New York artist Patricia Cronin channels the life and art of the 19th-century American sculptor Harriet Hosmer (1830-1908) in a show of watercolor depictions of Hosmer's works, both those that survived and those no longer traceable. Ms. Cronin has also published the watercolors -- including her ghost images of missing works -- in a scholarly book that stands as a Hosmer catalogue raisonne. The result is a complex package: a total work of art that is a historical document of the careers of two artists and a homage by one woman to another. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090827
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090827
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'YINKA SHONIBARE MBE,' through Sept. 20. This is an important show for Mr. Shonibare, a British-Nigerian artist who emerged in the late 1990s and was made a member of the Order of the British Empire in 2005. His sculptural tableaus, which revolve around Victorian-era costumes made from 20th-century fabrics associated with Africa, are riotously colorful; their themes of frivolity and excess feel current. But with few exceptions, Mr. Shonibare serves his post-colonialism straight up. The show is rescued by smart integration with the permanent collection: a kind of scavenger hunt through the museum's American period rooms, where Mr. Shonibare's figures of children at play inhabit historical settings. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090827
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHIONING FELT,' through Sept. 7. Tribute is paid to the world's oldest textile (no loom required) in all its sturdy, cosseting, beautiful, shape-shifting, dye-friendly majesty. The show includes contemporary furnishings, garments, jewelry and room dividers, as well as two large installation works. The felt runs from raw to cooked -- that is, furry to gossamer -- and in some of the most intriguing instances it is mated with lacquer, plastic, LED lights, metal or coral beads, as well as silk, linen or cotton. There are episodes of frivolity. A few earlier works -- including a Mongolian runner and a saddle blanket -- reunite function and decoration and distort familiar motifs in wonderful ways. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)20090827
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AVEDON FASHION: 1944-2000,' through Sept. 20. The first museum retrospective devoted to Richard Avedon's fashion photography exudes a contagious joie de vivre. With postwar Paris as a stage set, Avedon made fashion photography new by adding movement and then narrative to his images, along with ironic self-awareness and a buoyant exuberance. The best of his early images are as perfect as the best work of Jackson Pollock or Jasper Johns from this period, and as profoundly representative of it. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, www.icp.org. (Smith)20090827
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THEY CALLED ME MAYER JULY: PAINTED MEMORIES OF A JEWISH CHILDHOOD IN POLAND BEFORE THE HOLOCAUST,' through Oct. 1. Introducing the reluctant painter and accidental memoirist Mayer Kirshenblatt, now 92, who has devoted the last two decades to documenting life between the wars in and around the provincial city of Opatow (Apt in Yiddish), Poland. Wrought with irresistible detail and folk-art dispatch, the paintings begin with his mother's kitchen and reflect an omnivorous curiosity about everyday everything, aided by an apparently photographic memory. Labels pick up where the paintings leave off; words and images combine in a marvel of a book accomplished in collaboration with the artist's daughter, a folklorist whose career choice was shaped by her father's stories. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Smith)20090827
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'AFGHANISTAN: HIDDEN TREASURES FROM THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, KABUL,' through Sept. 20. The 200 pre-Islamic objects in this important and moving show date from the Bronze Age to the first century A.D. They dropped from sight during the country's recent turmoil, which was deadly for both people and artwork alike. Courageous curators were their salvation; the rediscovery of the pieces was a moment of national thanksgiving. Consisting of vessels, sculpture, architectural ornaments, jewelry and furniture decoration made of bronze, stone, glass, ceramic, ivory, gold and gemstone, they attest to an astounding cosmopolitanism and diverse cultural heritage. Once, many trade routes led through Afghanistan, and proof of its former centrality is both dazzling and heartening. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090827
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIVING LINE: SELECTED INDIAN DRAWINGS FROM THE SUBHASH KAPOOR GIFT,' through Sept. 7. This almost supernaturally beautiful exhibition presents 40 mostly small drawings by Indian miniaturists of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Rendered with amazing skill, the subjects include bearded aristocrats and bejeweled women; hunting scenes; wild animals and mythic beasts fighting; and gods, goddesses and demons ascending and descending. The art of drawing does not get much better than this. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090827
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090827
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'CINNABAR: THE CHINESE ART OF CARVED LACQUER,' through Feb. 21. The exhibition's approximately 50 carved lacquer dishes, platters, boxes, vases and other domestic objects -- including a spectacular folding screen -- are as engrossing for their formal beauty as for their amazing craftsmanship. The pigment cinnabar gives them a rich, dark red color, and intricate patterns, ornamental animals and pastoral vignettes carved and incised into their lustrous surfaces make every object a pleasure to behold. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090827
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Nov. 29. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending 130 feet from one end of the open-air deck to the other and rising 29 feet overhead. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090827
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PAGES OF GOLD: MEDIEVAL ILLUMINATIONS FROM THE MORGAN,' through Sept. 13. This quietly compelling show assembles ''orphan'' leaves (illuminated pages separated from medieval manuscripts and sold, individually, to collectors). Organized geographically, the show allows a comparison of illumination styles in England, Italy, Spain and other countries and regions. It also highlights the figures who created and participated in the market for single leaves. They include an Italian abbot, an English art historian and a mysterious artist known as the Spanish Forger. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20090827
 MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'SCRIPTURE FOR THE EYES: BIBLE ILLUSTRATION IN NETHERLANDISH PRINTS OF THE 16TH CENTURY,' through Sept. 27. Abounding in sex, violence and supernatural happenings, the Bible has been a great source of inspiration for visual artists. This superb show features pieces by some of the biggest names in the history of Western printmaking. Woodcuts and engravings by Lucas van Leyden and Hendrick Goltzius alone would make a visit to the museum worthwhile, but among the 79 works on view there are lots more wildly imaginative and technically amazing feats of printmaking. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20090827
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RON ARAD: NO DISCIPLINE,' through Oct. 19. The first large American survey of this Israeli-born, London-based designer proves some of the virtues but many of the vices of its subtitle. Rambunctious, installed to poor advantage and ultimately inconclusive, it demonstrates with only mediocre results Mr. Arad's ambition to extend the design discipline into architecture and sculpture. There are too many toys for rich people here, along with evidence that when Mr. Arad sticks closest to functional design, he also comes closest to art. You have to set limits to transcend them. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090827
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090827
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What Is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper's Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke to today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090827
 NEUE GALERIE: 'FOCUS: OSKAR KOKOSCHKA, WORKS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through Oct. 5. More a taste whetter than a substantial introduction, this exhibition presents six of the Expressionist portraits that made Kokoschka's reputation in the pre-World War I era and about 40 works on paper. The early paintings of eminent Viennese citizens still pack a considerable psychological punch. The gaunt, hollow-eyed ''Martha Hirsch (Dreaming Woman)'' projects an eerie, erotic charm, while her male counterparts resemble zombies and mad professors. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)20090827
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'DOROTHY IANNONE: LIONESS,' through Oct. 18. High priestess, matriarch, sex goddess: the self-taught American artist Dorothy Iannone has been called all these things and more. Now, at 75, Ms. Iannone is having her first solo show at an American museum. It includes just a smattering of early work: four paintings, one sculpture, an artist's book and a series of wooden cutouts. It is complemented, however, by an exhibition at the Anton Kern Gallery in Chelsea that spans the 1960s to the present. Both shows deliver an invigorating shock to an art world lulled, as of late, by the tasteful, conservative and blue-chip. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090827
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'INTERSECTIONS INTERSECTED: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF DAVID GOLDBLATT,' through Oct. 11. Celebrated internationally for his socially engaged photography, Mr. Goldblatt has been producing deceptively understated photographs in South Africa since the early '60s. His landscapes, urban scenes and portraits do not show the kinds of horrific images you might expect of witness-bearing photography in the land of apartheid and its violent aftermath, but their reticence speaks volumes. The 114 subtly elegant pictures in this slow-burning show cast a spell of love and mourning. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090827
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 24. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090827
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Never-Neverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090827
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'DAN GRAHAM: BEYOND,' through Oct. 11. This beautifully installed retrospective pays tribute to an influential artist who doesn't necessarily call himself that, and it tends to bear him out. Most impressive are a series of early Conceptual artworks involving surgically precise uses of language and magazines; a series of deadpan, Minimalist-inspired photographs of New Jersey architecture; and ''Rock My Religion,'' an imaginative video about the roots of rock 'n' roll. The video installations and walk-in glass-and-mirror pavilions -- admired because they are interactive -- quickly grow tedious or gimmicky. The many artists who claim Mr. Graham as precedent may surpass him, but there is more than one way to be important. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090827
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SADIE BENNING: PLAY PAUSE,' through Sept. 20. A new stop-action animation by this former film prodigy uses an avalanche of simple, almost naive gouache drawings, sometimes tinted with color, to prowl the margins of urban society. The result is low-key with undercurrents: a picture of the everyday sublime riddled with suggestions of longing, otherness and the difficulties of connection. Solveig Nelson has provided its beautifully accurate (yet largely electronic) soundtrack of city sounds, whether a subway singer or squirrels rifling through a garbage can, people talking in a bar or gates being called in an airport. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090827
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'CLAES OLDENBURG: EARLY SCULPTURE, DRAWINGS, AND HAPPENINGS FILMS' AND 'CLAES OLDENBURG AND COOSJE VAN BRUGGEN: THE MUSIC ROOM,' through Sept. 6. This pair of exhibitions leans heavily on the Whitney's sizable collection of Oldenburg and Oldenburg/Van Bruggen drawings, some of which were shown in 2002. But they also include newly restored, never-exhibited films of Mr. Oldenburg's Happenings and a major kinetic sculpture, ''Ice Bag -- Scale C'' (1971), brought back to life by conservators. A centralized gallery of early drawings and soft sculptures defines Mr. Oldenburg's epicurean branch of Pop, with works like ''Giant BLT (Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Sandwich)'' and ''French Fries and Ketchup'' (both 1963), served up on low, platterlike pedestals. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20090827
 Galleries: Uptown
 'SELF-PORTRAITS,' through next Friday. Nine well-known artists coyly toy with self-portraiture. In a 1984 photograph John Coplans has his aged, hairy back turned to the camera. In photographs from 1979, 1981 and 1985, Cindy Sherman appears to play characters in different cinematic melodramas. A lacy pattern of thick black paint almost completely hides Rudolf Stingel's face in a small 2007 painting, and Martin Kippenberger, wearing oversize Picasso-style briefs, has a blue balloon floating in front of his face in a painting from 1988. Skarstedt Gallery, 20 East 79th Street , (212) 737-2060, skarstedt.com. (Johnson)20090827
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'PAUL JENKINS IN THE 1960S AND 1970S: SPACE, COLOR AND LIGHT,' through Sept. 25. While seriously overhung, this exhibition affords a rare, extensive look at the work of an artist who borrowed from Abstract Expressionism and then Color Field painting to devise flowing, billowing veils of color that dazzle with their formal acrobatics and luminous, jewel-toned hues. Working with his well-known ivory knives, Mr. Jenkins makes his colors leap, overlap and splinter, pitting them against whiplash lines and stark white backgrounds that increase their luminosity. His paintings have frequently been too gorgeous for their own good, which means that they can verge on slick. But the selection here shows him at the height of his powers. D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue , (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com. (Smith)20090827
 'LIVE FROM NEW YORK ...,' through Sept. 5. Subjects in this exhibition by various artists of photographs of famous musicians performing or hanging out in New York include Billie Holiday; Frank Sinatra; Sonny and Cher in hippie-cowboy outfits; Marilyn Monroe singing ''Happy Birthday'' to the president; Bob Dylan and George Harrison in a duet onstage; the Ramones outside CBGB; and, most famously, John Lennon in a sleeveless New York T-shirt. Bonni Benrubi, 41 East 57th Street , (212) 888-6007, bonnibenrubi.com. (Johnson)20090827
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'THE FEMALE GAZE: WOMEN LOOK AT WOMEN,' through Sept. 19. With a photograph by the eminent Victorian photographer Julia-Margaret Cameron -- as well as paintings by Joan Mitchell and Marlene Dumas, a video by Lynda Benglis and recent sculptures by Louise Bourgeois and Vanessa Beecroft -- this exhibition not only counters the so-called male gaze traditional to Western art with instances of the female one, it also represents a complexity of viewpoints that throws the entire gender-based dichotomy into question. Lust, love, desire and the urge for power can all be found in the works here, some of which could easily have been made by men (not necessarily a bad thing). But there are also above-average levels of empathy, autonomy and dignity in play, and a fascinating process of recontextualization. Note the pure, steadfast determination of gaze emanating from Diane Arbus's ''Blond Girl With Shiny Lipstick'' from 1967. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street , (212) 242-7727, cheimread.com. (Smith)20090827
 'GLITZ & GRIME: PHOTOGRAPHS OF TIMES SQUARE,' through Sept. 12. This group show's 24 photographs, dating from 1945 to 2009, chronicle the highs and lows of Times Square, a place that embodies the spirit of American commercial culture at its most seamy and manically exuberant. Yancey Richardson, 535 West 22nd Street , (646) 230-9610, yanceyrichardson.com. (Johnson)20090827
 ANNA MOLSKA: 'THE WEAVERS,' through Sept. 5. The New York gallery debut of this young Polish artist consists of a short film that transfers the setting of an 1892 German play, about an uprising by exploited weavers, to a Silesian coal mine. A rough-edged form of collage results, as the dialogue and voice-over don't match the images. The piece evokes 19th-century realist painting, but the point is made without becoming heavy-handed: in many parts of the world labor conditions have not advanced much since the Industrial Revolution. Broadway 1602, 1182 Broadway, at 28th Street , (212) 481-0362, www.broadway1602.com. (Smith)20090827
 'NAKED!,' through Sept. 19. Although it includes some images of men, a more accurate title for this entertainingly lubricious show would be ''Naked Women of Childbearing Age.'' A big part of the show's appeal is its wacky eclecticism. The 44 works range from a 1626 painting of the river god Alpheus chasing the nymph Arethusa, by Moyses van Uyttenbroeck, to Mel Ramos's 2007 sculpture of a voluptuous woman emerging from an open banana peel. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street , (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20090827
 'PHASE TWO'; through Oct. 25. For a glimpse of the future of contemporary art, or at least a slice of that future, spend some time with the second round of exhibitions at X Initiative. Each of the three largest provides immersion in the work of a young, promising European artist working in time-based mediums. Luke Fowler's films about artists and eccentrics push the documentary form into art. Keren Cytter's visceral videos wreak havoc with numerous cinematic genres and a few from television. Tris Vonna-Michell combines slide projections and recordings of his rapid-fire spoken-word performances to trace his experiences in ways both random and crazily obsessive. ''Today and Everyday,'' a beguiling if conceptually daring group show, is also on view, along with works by Seth Price and Fritz Haeg. X-Initiative, 548 West 22nd Street , (917) 697-4886, x-initiative.org. (Smith)20090827
 'SUMMER PICTURES,' through Sept. 12. When it comes to painting, the fashion designer Isaac Mizrahi knows what he likes and then some. His group show of works by friends and one relative transcends such connections and explores issues like landscape, still life, breakfast and color -- especially color. The artists include Jane Freilicher, Maureen Gallace, Wayne Thiebaud, Maira Kalman and Adrianne Lobel (a theatrical designer). Their work looks fresh and diverse, like a party of people who don't know one another, but end up getting along famously. Julie Saul Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street , (212) 627-2410, saulgallery.com. (Smith)20090827
 Public Art
 'PLOT/09: THIS WORLD & NEARER ONES,' through Sept. 20. The big draw in the city's first quadrennial of public art -- an exhibition of 19 site-specific works organized by Creative Time on Governors Island -- is the beautiful, haunted, car-free island itself. Standouts among the uneven melange of artworks include videos by Guido van der Werve, Adam Chodzko, Judi Werthein and the ingenious Bruce High Quality Foundation. Outdoors, beyond the dark rooms, Susan Philipsz, Teresa Margolles, Tue Greenfort, Mark Wallinger and especially Klaus Weber also add substance. But the degree of site-specificity fluctuates wildly, and the concept as a whole is inadvertently called into question. (212) 206-6674, creativetime.org. (Smith)20090827
 Out of Town
 'DOVE/O'KEEFFE: CIRCLES OF INFLUENCE' through Sept. 7. Exhibitions with fresh takes on the early American modernists don't happen every day. This one delves into the give and take between the shy, retiring Arthur Dove (1880-1946) and the iron-willed Georgia O'Keeffe (1887-1986) -- a bond of friendship and mutual respect that is little known today, despite the fact that the two were something like the Pollock and de Kooning or Johns and Rauschenberg of the between-the-wars period. His work was crucial to the formation of her style; her early (Dove-influenced) watercolors inspired him to take up the medium at the end of his career. Their similarities and differences make for a lively dialogue and shed new light on one source of the organic abstraction that has figured centrally in American art ever since. Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, 225 South Street, Williamstown, Mass. , (413) 458-2303, clarkart.edu. (Smith)20090827
 ZOE LEONARD, through Sept. 7. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has an exhibition at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. It is different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, it shares a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y. , (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. (Cotter)20090827
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'THE ART OF POWER: ROYAL ARMOR AND PORTRAITS FROM IMPERIAL SPAIN,' through Nov. 1. Drawn from the Royal Armory in Madrid, one of the oldest and greatest repositories of armor in the world, this exhibition presents full suits of armor, as well as individual helmets, shields, swords and armor for horses. There are portraits of 16th- and 17th-century Spanish kings in armor, too, and three spectacular tapestries. But it is the extraordinarily sumptuous metalwork, produced not for warfare but for ceremonial occasions, that is the main attraction. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington , (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)20090827
 PEABODY ESSEX MUSEUM: 'THE GOLDEN AGE OF DUTCH SEASCAPES,' through Sept. 7. What with all those cataclysmic storms, shipwrecks, sea battles and marauding pirates in 17th-century Dutch marine paintings, it's a wonder anyone dared venture off land at all. There are periods of calm in this show of 72 expertly rendered seascapes, but the overall impression is harrowing. Nautical history buffs will be in heaven. East India Square, 161 Essex Street, Salem, Mass. , (866) 745-1876, pem.org. (Johnson)20090827
 Last Chance
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE SWEENEY DECADE: ACQUISITIONS OF THE 1959 INAUGURAL'; closes on Wednesday. What did they get, and when did they get it? This perennial yardstick of a museum's sensitivity to new art is quite useful in this show. All 24 paintings and sculptures date from the 1950s and were acquired by the Guggenheim within a year or so of their making, and many were part of the first exhibition in Frank Lloyd Wright's spiral building. They constitute a mixture of the good, the bad and the innocuous, as well as European, Asian and American. But they also attest to the vision of James Johnson Sweeney, the Guggenheim's second director, who steered the museum away from its founding obsession with ''nonobjective painting'' and into the broad, challenging terrain of art after 1950. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20090827
 SCOTT REEDER: 'PAINTER'; closes on Saturday. Mr. Reeder paints amusing, cartoonish images with a refined, brushy touch; an acute feel for color; and a kind of twisted reverence for Bonnard, Picasso and other godfathers of Modernist painting. ''Suicidal Shape (Study in Red),'' in which a blank pink canvas is suspended by a hangman's noose in an empty watermelon-red room, makes fun of the tortured-artist cliche while nodding to Matisse's ''Red Studio.'' Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-4949, danielreichgallery.com. (Johnson)20090827
 'SEXY AND THE CITY'; closes on Friday. A salon-style hanging of 29 mostly black-and-white pictures, this noirish selection of obliquely erotic photographs includes Merry Alpern's grainy, voyeuristic view of a woman in her underwear from a series called ''Dirty Windows''; Alvin Baltrop's distant shots of anonymous men having sex on the West Side piers in the late 1970s and early '80s; and Nan Goldin's image of a drag queen out on the street in a huge rococo wig. Yossi Milo Gallery, 525 West 25th Street, Chelsea , (212) 414-0370, yossimilo.com. (Johnson)20090827
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'Self-Portraits' at Skarstedt Gallery: Nine well-known artists, including Robert Mapplethorpe and Cindy Sherman, explore self-portraiture in this show, closing next Friday. Above, Mike Kelley's 1990 piece ''Ahh ... Youth.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SKARSTEDT GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (66%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (65%); RELIGION (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



736 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Flooded Iowa City Rebuilding And Feeling Just a Bit Ignored

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa 

 BODY:
It was more than a year ago that the core of this city was submerged to its rooftops, a result of record flooding on the Cedar River that caused an estimated $6 billion in damage -- among the most costly natural disasters since Hurricane Katrina.
 The outpouring of attention toward New Orleans and the Gulf Coast, ratcheting up again now as the fourth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina approaches, has not been seen here. In fact, the people of Cedar Rapids are feeling neglected.
 The recovery here is only limping along as waterlogged buildings are still being gutted, thousands of displaced families remain in temporary housing, and large-scale demolition to make way for a new downtown has just begun.
 Federal financing for long-term recovery is trickling in, with the government having committed money for about half of what the city says it needs. And only a fraction of that has actually arrived. 
 ''We really feel that we are the forgotten disaster,'' said Greg Eyerly, the city's flood recovery director. ''We don't make sexy products. We make starch that goes into paper, we make foodstuffs, ingredients in crackers and cereal. We make ethanol. The sexiest thing we make is Cap'n Crunch. We're not a beachfront property. We make an anonymous contribution to our country, and people forget about us.''
 To be sure, Hurricane Katrina's huge reach and a botched emergency response devastated a far greater swath of the country than did the flooding in the Midwest, and no one here is trying to make tit-for-tat disaster comparisons. No lives were lost in the flooding in Cedar Rapids, and the government's initial response to the crisis was generally considered a success. 
 But over the long term, the tone has changed, and the feeling of neglect amid devastation is palpable now. Five weeks of severe weather in the summer of 2008 made disaster areas out of 85 of the state's 99 counties.
 ''We're not making a lot of noise about it,'' said Gov. Chet Culver, a Democrat, reflecting on a sense of Midwestern stoicism. ''We're going about our business. That's a determination that's impressive, but it doesn't attract attention.''
 The delays in recovery have multiple causes. The city cannot agree with the Federal Emergency Management Agency on the level of damage to the public buildings, and more than a thousand families do not know yet whether they will be bought out of flooded homes or whether their neighborhoods are coming back. And the sources of much the long-term recovery money -- like the Departments of Agriculture and Housing and Urban Development -- are not crisis-response agencies, and therefore do not operate at an emergency pace.
 ''We're extremely thankful for the money, but we also know the turnaround time it takes to get the dollars here creates a lot of anxiety for disaster victims,'' said Tina Potthoff, a spokeswoman for the Rebuild Iowa Office.
 So far, Iowa has been promised $3.1 billion in federal assistance for housing, infrastructure and business recovery, but only $689 million has been distributed, and local officials estimate its damage need at something more like $8 billion to $10 billion. The state suffered $1.6 billion in infrastructure damage alone.
 In Cedar Rapids, city officials estimate that they need close to $6 billion. 
 The slow pace of the money flow for long-term recovery has held up crucial decisions about what is going to be rebuilt in the city of 120,000 people. Whole communities are waiting to hear about buyouts and demolitions, new levees and flood plains. Many are in limbo, and the frustration level is rising. Some residents are still living in FEMA mobile homes. Even City Hall remains displaced.
 The economic recession has only made a bad situation worse, drawing attention and perhaps dollars away from Iowa. 
 Still, Mike Papich, the owner of a funeral home wrecked in the flood, has decided to start rebuilding his house and business in the New Bohemia section, a patchwork of recovery and abandonment not far from the river.
 ''We don't know for sure what's going to happen over here, whether it will be needed for a new levee or flood wall or what,'' said Mr. Papich, 50. ''I told someone with the city, 'I assume that since you're giving me a building permit, that's an assurance you won't be taking my property.' They said, 'Not necessarily.' So then I thought, What am I doing?''
 Mr. Papich is financing his rebuilding plans with a low-interest emergency disaster loan from the Small Business Association and a grant from the state, two flood-recovery measures that have helped spur rebuilding. 
 ''You hear one thing, then another thing,'' he said. ''There are a lot of unanswered questions in Cedar Rapids.''
 City and state officials say residents should prepare for a recovery that could span a decade. 
 Hundreds of houses in Cedar Rapids sit abandoned, similar to the way they were on June 13, 2008, when the Cedar River crested. Some have been gutted down to their stilts, awaiting repair but lending entire neighborhoods the feel of a ghost town.
 Ms. Potthoff said state officials were creating a set of recommendations to suggest to the federal government how some agencies that do not normally respond to disasters might do so more quickly, as is generally the case now with the emergency management agency. 
 Kenneth Benning, 83, moved from an agency trailer to a new house on high ground last fall, but he is still waiting to hear what is to become of his flooded house -- which he is maintaining and is expecting to pay taxes on -- and its community.
 ''It's so exasperating,'' Mr. Benning said. ''Every day you wonder what they're going to come up with that you have to deal with. Here it is 14 months or better, and the city hasn't made any move on the buyouts.''
 The city says it is waiting for money that has already been approved to arrive from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to the state, which will then distribute it. But those sorts of bureaucratic explanations do not go over well with flood victims.
 ''They've all got all kinds of excuses,'' Mr. Benning said.
 Meanwhile, people are getting to work. Shaun Hootman, 33, exemplifies the ambivalence that people here are experiencing. She has spent the last several days painting and refurnishing her mother's flooded home, where she intends to live. Volunteers did some of the structural remodeling she could not afford. 
 ''Things could come along faster,'' Ms. Hootman said. ''But over all, we can't complain.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Flood-damaged homes in Cedar Rapids sit abandoned.(A1)
Shaun Hootman, standing, and her family have mostly lived in her in-laws' house in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, while theirs is repaired.
 Mike Papich has decided to start rebuilding his house and funeral home business. Hundreds of houses are still abandoned.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN MAXON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) MAP: Still Recovering From Last Year's Floods: Half of some 5,000 residential structures in Cedar Rapids damaged in floods last summer have been repaired. But thousands of houses that suffered the worst damage, including nearly 1,300 that are beyond repair, are languishing as city officials await more federal money to help cover what they estimate to be $6 billion in citywide damage.(Source: CorridorRecovery.org)(MAP BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); WEATHER (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); CITIES (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BEACHES (71%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (71%)

PERSON: CHET CULVER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (95%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



737 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Another Way to Lose the House

 BODY:
The foreclosure crisis will get much worse before it gets any better. 
 That's the only conclusion to draw from a recent survey by the Mortgage Bankers Association, which found that six million loans were either past due or in foreclosure in the second quarter of 2009, the highest level ever recorded by the group. Worse, loan defaults are not the only cause of foreclosures. In some areas, unpaid property taxes are provoking foreclosures, even for homeowners otherwise current on their payments. 
 The Times's Jack Healyreported the other day that in recent years, some cities and counties that are strapped for money have sold their delinquent tax bills to private firms. The firms, which typically charge double-digit interest rates and steep fees, get to keep what they collect. They also get the right to foreclose on the homes, taking priority over mortgage lenders. 
 Debt collection is always tough. But it is especially fraught when private firms go after unpaid taxes, because private collection distorts the public interest. For example, governments can also foreclose for unpaid taxes, but they are less likely to do so out of concern for property values and quality of life. The auditor in Lucas County, Ohio -- which sold more than 3,000 tax liens for $14.7 million -- said that the cost to the community from abandoned and foreclosed properties has been greater than the short-term benefit from selling the liens. 
 Local governments cannot undo their previous tax lien sales. But changes in federal policy can reduce the foreclosure risk from unpaid property taxes. During the mortgage bubble, some lenders kept monthly loan payments low by not tacking on an extra amount to cover taxes and insurance. 
 For the loans in question -- which generally fell into the categories of subprime, Alt-A (a notch above subprime) or jumbo loans -- neither federal law nor pressure from mortgage investors compelled the inclusion of taxes and insurance in the monthly payment. Housing advocates say that many homeowners did not realize the amounts were excluded. 
 In 2008 -- after the bubble had burst -- the Federal Reserve altered the rules, but the changes were weak. They require taxes and insurance to be included, but only for subprime loans and only for a year. After that, lenders can let borrowers opt out of paying those charges as part of their monthly bills.
 Excluding the charges might help lenders, because it increases the likelihood that borrowers will need to refinance to cover unexpected expenses. But it puts many borrowers and whole communities at risk. What is needed is a rule that requires the inclusion of taxes and insurance in the monthly payment for all types of mortgages and that disallows opt-outs until borrowers have made at least five years of steady payments. 
 The issue is also one more reminder that the nation badly needs an independent consumer safety regulator for mortgages and other loans -- and that the Fed is not the right choice for the job. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (77%); COUNTIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



738 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Over Till the HD Video Is Screened

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
Who would sit in a movie theater to see a video broadcast of a Metropolitan Opera production? That was the question raised by quite a few doubters and critics before the Met began its HD screenings of performances three years ago.
 The doubters were wrong. The immediate popularity of the venture quickly justified the initial investment that Peter Gelb, the Met's general manager, made in the project. Now these broadcasts are seen around the world. At many movie theaters and performing-arts centers, tickets for the broadcasts are scooped up within hours of going on sale.
 Still, the key to the excitement over the HD broadcasts is that they are live. This explains why in many locales audiences get into the spirit by dressing in their opera attire and shouting ''bravo'' at the artists on screen. 
 Starting on Saturday night, the Met will be trying out another, more modest venture with its HD series, without the live element. The video of the Met's acclaimed production of Donizetti's ''Fille du Regiment,'' starring the soprano Natalie Dessay as Marie, the tomboy raised by an army regiment in Tyrol, and the tenor Juan Diego Florez as Tonio, the young villager who adores her, will be screened free in Lincoln Center Plaza. This inaugurates the Met's Summer HD Festival: 10 night screenings of selected broadcasts from the last three seasons, ending on Sept. 7 with ''Madama Butterfly.'' 
 The Met is optimistic that the public will turn out for the series, even though all of the videos were first broadcast live and have been shown on public television's ''Great Performances at the Met.''
 ''I'm not kidding myself, this will be a very different experience,'' Mr. Gelb said in a recent interview. ''Just as we are not suggesting that the HD broadcasts in the theaters are a substitute for experiencing opera at the Met, we are not suggesting that these screenings in the plaza are a substitute for seeing the live broadcasts in theaters and arts centers.''
 He added, ''We hope it will be a summer diversion for opera lovers and whet the appetite for what is to come this season.''
 The late-summer timing is propitious. The classical music and opera scene in New York comes nearly to a stop in the period surrounding Labor Day. Part of the fun of seeing the broadcasts in movie theaters, not to mention going to the opera in person, is the communal experience. Opera buffs and the musically curious might well be attracted to the plaza for these screenings.
 If nothing else, the venture will provide an overview of the Met's approach to its broadcasts, which in each case involve two directors: one to stage the opera, another to film it. And the film director can significantly alter the perception of a production.
 There is, for example, the video of Britten's ''Peter Grimes,'' a John Doyle production, with the remarkable tenor Anthony Dean Griffey in the title role, first broadcast live in March 2008. Mr. Doyle had already proved himself to me with his unconventional productions on Broadway of two Stephen Sondheim musicals, ''Sweeney Todd'' and ''Company,'' which involved having the actors double as musicians, replacing the pit band. In ''Peter Grimes'' Mr. Doyle drew nuanced performances from the singers and created stark stage imagery, especially in his handling of the Met choristers, who portray the anxious residents of the fishing village where the ostracized Grimes has tried to fit in. 
 The production was visually dominated, however, by Scott Pask's set, which relied on a tall, movable wood wall, with doors and windows through which singers popped out like the characters in an Advent calendar. At the Met you grew weary of seeing that looming wall during whole stretches of the opera. 
 In the video version, however, the director Gary Halvorson keeps closing in on the singers. You become engrossed by the dramatic subtleties of their performances and almost forget that wall, which fades into the background. The production actually comes off better on film than onstage. And the achievement of Mr. Griffey, a courageous artist, comes through. His Grimes is baby-faced, pitiable and volatile, both a menacing presence and a tragic victim. 
 The close-ups are also a treat in the video version of ''La Fille du Regiment.'' Ms. Dessay is a skillfully deadpan comic actress, and Mr. Florez an endearingly smitten Tonio.
 On the other hand, the performance that the soprano Maria Guleghina gave as Lady Macbeth in Adrian Noble's bleak and bloody updated production of Verdi's ''Macbeth'' came off better in the house, where the audience had some distance from Ms. Guleghina's vehement, strident singing and full-throttle acting. At times she overwhelms the video, directed by Mr. Halvorson. Yet it is rewarding to zero in on the baritone Zeljko Lucic's noble, tormented and vocally elegant Macbeth, one of the most underappreciated performances of recent Met seasons.
 Some of the enjoyment of the HD broadcasts comes from the intermission interviews and backstage hubbub they offer. These elements work only in live broadcasts, as Mr. Gelb said. Much of that footage has been cut from the versions that will be screened in the plaza. 
 There are some exceptions. In the director Bartlett Sher's cleverly zany staging of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' the second act opened with John Del Carlo as the befuddled Dr. Bartolo, venting his confusion to an invented silent character, a male servant, in front of the curtain. For the HD broadcast Dr. Bartolo was first shown backstage, leaving his dressing room and walking past crew members as he complained to his servant, until he finally made it to the stage. That charming directorial touch was deemed so effective that it is being kept in the broadcast for the plaza.
 Two of the screenings in the festival come from very recent productions. Gluck's ''Orfeo ed Euridice,'' which Mark Morris staged as half opera, half ballet, was first broadcast in January, featuring the amazing mezzo-soprano Stephanie Blythe in a career-breakthrough performance as Orfeo. Anthony Minghella's cinematic staging of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' with the soprano Patricia Racette as an affecting and subtly intense Cio-Cio-San, was first shown in March.
 Will an audience turn up for Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin,'' the abstractly alluring production by Robert Carsen, starring Dmitri Hvorostovsky as Onegin and Renee Fleming as Tatiana? First broadcast in February 2007 and released later that year as a popular DVD, the video version of this production is well known by now. It was a triumph for the two leads and the conductor Valery Gergiev. Brian Large's video directing brings you intimately close to these riveting portrayals.
 Many classical music fans have expressed dismay that the Met chose not to present concert performances of complete operas in New York parks this summer. The free HD series is meant, in part, to be a substitute, although this summer the company also offered a modest series of voice recitals with piano in parks around the city, including some the Met had never visited in earlier tours.
 ''The economics right now are difficult, no question, for performing concert opera in the parks,'' Mr. Gelb said. ''If funding comes available, it is not a dead issue. This year we took a different approach.'' 
 He added that, in his outreach effort to make opera more accessible to the public, this season there will be, among other initiatives, three open-house dress rehearsals at the Met, a continuation of the free HD broadcasts in public schools and an expanded rush ticket program.
 Rush seats sell for just $20, he said, ''less than the cost of a ticket to an HD broadcast in a theater.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bartlett Sher's staging of Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' shown in movie theaters as a live, high-definition video program, will be rebroadcast in the Metropolitan Opera's free Summer HD Festival.(PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN OPERA)(pg. C1)
A scene from the video of the Met's production of Donizetti's ''Fille du Regiment,'' starring the soprano Natalie Dessay.
In the HD broadcast of the Met's ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' John Del Carlo, left, and Rob Besserer were shown backstage.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE METROPOLITAN OPERA)(pg. C3) CHART: Opera, Off Off Stage: The Metropolitan Opera's Summer HD Festival starts on Saturday and will run through Sept. 7 in Lincoln Center Plaza. Screenings are free, and seating is first come first served
 rain cancels the screening. Information: (212) 362- 6000, metopera.org/parks. Here is the schedule:Saturday 'LA FILLE DU REGIMENT,' with Natalie Dessay and Juan Diego Florez, 8 p.m. Sunday 'ROMEO ET JULIETTE,' with Anna Netrebko and Roberto Alagna, 7:30 p.m. Monday 'EUGENE ONEGIN,' with Dmitri Hvorostovsky and Renee Fleming, 7:45 p.m. Tuesday 'MACBETH,' with Maria Guleghina and Zeljko Lucic, 8 p.m. Wednesday 'IL BARBIERE DI SIVIGLIA,' with Joyce DiDonato, Juan Diego Florez and John Del Carlo, 7:45 p.m. Thursday 'PETER GRIMES,' with Anthony Dean Griffey, Patricia Racette and Anthony Michaels-Moore, 7:45 p.m. Next Friday 'LA BOHEME,' with Angela Gheorghiu, Ramon Vargas and Ainhoa Arteta, 8 p.m. Sept. 5 'ORFEO ED EURIDICE,' with Stephanie Blythe and Danielle de Niese, 8 p.m. Sept. 6 'IL TRITTICO,' with Maria Guleghina, Salvatore Licitra, Juan Pons, Barbara Frittoli, Stephanie Blythe and Alessandro Corbelli, 7:30 p.m. Sept. 7 'MADAMA BUTTERFLY,' with Patricia Racette andMarcello Giordani, 8 p. (pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); US LABOR DAY (70%); ARMIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%); TYROL, AUSTRIA (55%) UNITED STATES (69%); AUSTRIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



739 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: First-Time U.S. Jobless Claims Fall Again

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The government said Thursday that the number of newly laid-off workers filing claims for jobless benefits dropped last week, and the number of people remaining on the rolls also fell, evidence that layoffs have eased. 
 Still, both figures remain above levels associated with a healthy economy, and analysts expect the unemployment rate to keep rising.
 The Labor Department said in a statement Thursday that first-time unemployment claims fell to a seasonally-adjusted 570,000, down from an upwardly revised figure of 580,000 the previous week. Analysts had expected a slightly larger drop to 565,000.
 The tally of those continuing to claim benefits dropped to 6.13 million from 6.25 million in the previous week, the lowest level since early April.
 Economists closely watch initial claims, which are considered a gauge of layoffs and an indication of companies' willingness to hire new workers.
 While the figures are volatile, first-time claims have trended downward in recent months. Initial claims topped 600,000 for most of this year, until falling below that level in early July.
 The four-week average of claims, which smoothes out fluctuations, fell by 4,750 to 566,250 last week. That's about 90,000 below its peak for the current recession, in early April.
 The weekly figures remain far above the roughly 325,000 that analysts say is consistent with a healthy economy. New claims were last below 300,000 in early 2007.
 Job losses have slowed recently. The department said earlier this month that companies cut 247,000 jobs in July, a large amount but still the smallest number in almost a year.
 The unemployment rate dipped to 9.4 percent in July from 9.5 percent, its first drop in 15 months. But Christine Romer, an economic adviser to President Obama, predicted Tuesday that unemployment could reach 10 percent this year and average 9.8 percent next year.
 The recession, which began in December 2007 and which is the worst since World War II, has eliminated a net total of 6.7 million jobs.
 And when federal emergency programs are included, the total number of jobless benefit recipients was 9.19 million people in the week that ended Aug. 8. That was up from 9.18 million in the previous week. Congress has added up to 53 extra weeks of benefits on top of the 26 typically provided by the states.
 The large number of people remaining on the rolls is an indication that unemployed workers are having a hard time finding new jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); LAYOFFS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



740 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Boeing and A.I.G. Bolster Listless Summertime Trading

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH

 BODY:
As it did for most of the week, Wall Street spent Thursday searching for direction.
 The main indexes spent Thursday morning in the red but climbed into positive territory after an afternoon rebound in oil prices and the energy sector. 
 Encouraging pieces of economic data on employment and gross domestic product failed to impress investors, as they seemed content to book profits on another day of listless trading.
 ''It's the summertime, with a little bit of economic data and low volume profit-taking,'' said Anthony Dwyer, an equity market strategist at FTN Equity Capital Markets. ''It could be as simple as that. We use these employment numbers as an excuse rather than reason.''
 The Labor Department said that initial unemployment claims last week fell by 10,000 from the prior week, to 570,000. It was the first decline in three weeks, but fell short of economists' expectations by 5,000. The four-week moving average was 566,250, a decrease of 4,750 from the previous week's 571,000.
 The government also left its second-quarter estimate of the gross domestic product unchanged; some analysts had feared that revisions might show a worse contraction than the 1 percent annualized decline initially reported.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 37.11 points, or 0.39 percent, to 9,580.63. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.86 points, or 0.28 percent, to 1,030.98. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 3.3 points, or 0.16 percent, to 2,027.73.
 Equity analysts kept an eye on the price of oil, which, like stocks, recovered from an early stumble, to settle at $72.49 a barrel, up $1.06, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 At one point on Thursday morning, crude prices fell below $70 a barrel on a report showing high inventory levels in the United States and concerns of low refiner demand.
 ''If you look in the historical realm, we're way ahead of ourselves inventory-wise,'' said Tom Bentz, senior energy analyst at BNP Paribas. ''The market is choosing to focus on fundamentals again for a short period.''
 Shares of Chevron and Exxon Mobil, two Dow components, closed relatively flat after falling by more than 1.7 percent during intraday trading. 
 Shares of Boeing, which announced that it would test fly its long-delayed 787 Dreamliner by the end of year, rose more than 8 percent, or $4, to $51.82.
 Shares of the insurance giant American International Group continued to climb on Thursday, jumping 27 percent, or $10.15, to $47.84. The stock has risen more than 400 percent since July 9.
 The latest jump came on speculation that A.I.G. could benefit from a better relationship with its former chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg. 
 Robert H. Benmosche, who was named chief executive earlier this month, told Reuters that he has been in regular contact with Mr. Greenberg, who led A.I.G. for almost 40 years. ''I want to get the benefit of his criticisms or his support,'' Mr. Benmosche said, according to Reuters.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32, to 101 14/32. The yield rose to 3.45 percent, from 3.43 percent late Wednesday.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of seven-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INSURANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); EQUITY RESEARCH (71%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



741 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Till Debt Does Its Part

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So new budget projections show a cumulative deficit of $9 trillion over the next decade. According to many commentators, that's a terrifying number, requiring drastic action -- in particular, of course, canceling efforts to boost the economy and calling off health care reform.
 The truth is more complicated and less frightening. Right now deficits are actually helping the economy. In fact, deficits here and in other major economies saved the world from a much deeper slump. The longer-term outlook is worrying, but it's not catastrophic. 
 The only real reason for concern is political. The United States can deal with its debts if politicians of both parties are, in the end, willing to show at least a bit of maturity. Need I say more?
 Let's start with the effects of this year's deficit.
 There are two main reasons for the surge in red ink. First, the recession has led both to a sharp drop in tax receipts and to increased spending on unemployment insurance and other safety-net programs. Second, there have been large outlays on financial rescues. These are counted as part of the deficit, although the government is acquiring assets in the process and will eventually get at least part of its money back.
 What this tells us is that right now it's good to run a deficit. Consider what would have happened if the U.S. government and its counterparts around the world had tried to balance their budgets as they did in the early 1930s. It's a scary thought. If governments had raised taxes or slashed spending in the face of the slump, if they had refused to rescue distressed financial institutions, we could all too easily have seen a full replay of the Great Depression. 
 As I said, deficits saved the world.
 In fact, we would be better off if governments were willing to run even larger deficits over the next year or two. The official White House forecast shows a nation stuck in purgatory for a prolonged period, with high unemployment persisting for years. If that's at all correct -- and I fear that it will be -- we should be doing more, not less, to support the economy. 
 But what about all that debt we're incurring? That's a bad thing, but it's important to have some perspective. Economists normally assess the sustainability of debt by looking at the ratio of debt to G.D.P. And while $9 trillion is a huge sum, we also have a huge economy, which means that things aren't as scary as you might think.
 Here's one way to look at it: We're looking at a rise in the debt/G.D.P. ratio of about 40 percentage points. The real interest on that additional debt (you want to subtract off inflation) will probably be around 1 percent of G.D.P., or 5 percent of federal revenue. That doesn't sound like an overwhelming burden.
 Now, this assumes that the U.S. government's credit will remain good so that it's able to borrow at relatively low interest rates. So far, that's still true. Despite the prospect of big deficits, the government is able to borrow money long term at an interest rate of less than 3.5 percent, which is low by historical standards. People making bets with real money don't seem to be worried about U.S. solvency.
 The numbers tell you why. According to the White House projections, by 2019, net federal debt will be around 70 percent of G.D.P. That's not good, but it's within a range that has historically proved manageable for advanced countries, even those with relatively weak governments. In the early 1990s, Belgium -- which is deeply divided along linguistic lines -- had a net debt of 118 percent of G.D.P., while Italy -- which is, well, Italy -- had a net debt of 114 percent of G.D.P. Neither faced a financial crisis. 
 So is there anything to worry about? Yes, but the dangers are political, not economic.
 As I've said, those 10-year projections aren't as bad as you may have heard. Over the really long term, however, the U.S. government will have big problems unless it makes some major changes. In particular, it has to rein in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid spending.
 That shouldn't be hard in the context of overall health care reform. After all, America spends far more on health care than other advanced countries, without better results, so we should be able to make our system more cost-efficient.
 But that won't happen, of course, if even the most modest attempts to improve the system are successfully demagogued -- by conservatives! -- as efforts to ''pull the plug on grandma.''
 So don't fret about this year's deficit; we actually need to run up federal debt right now and need to keep doing it until the economy is on a solid path to recovery. And the extra debt should be manageable. If we face a potential problem, it's not because the economy can't handle the extra debt. Instead, it's the politics, stupid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



742 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'WE LIVE IN PUBLIC'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Embracing Life Under Scrutiny, Before the Dawn of Nonstop Tweets

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
After watching the documentary ''We Live in Public,'' a hyperventilated account of the rise and weird fall of the dot-com millionaire turned self-declared artist Josh Harris, you might want to run home, lower all the shades and unplug yourself from the Internet. Certainly Mr. Harris, who earned a sizable fortune from different Internet ventures only to become increasingly consumed with issues of privacy, control and surveillance -- a complex of obsessions that helped him lose much of that fortune -- could have used some alone time.
 Mr. Harris is now apparently living in Ethiopia, where he runs an outfit called African Entertainment Network and remains, as he says in the movie, far from the reach of his creditors. In 1986 he founded Jupiter Communications, an early Internet analysis and consulting firm. In 1994, after making a tidy profit from the sale of that company, he created Pseudo Programs, an online television company that, because broadband was still years away, was the right idea with the wrong technology. That company filed for bankruptcy when the dot-com bubble burst in 2000, but by then Mr. Harris was suffering his own meltdown, at times while made up like a clown called Luvvy, named after a character on ''Gilligan's Island.'' 
 ''Gilligan's Island'' wasn't just Mr. Harris's favorite show when he was a child: it also turns out to have been a guidepost for his life. Yet while Gilligan and the rest of the castaways ran accidentally aground during a storm, Mr. Harris appears to have in part steered his life into the shoals through ruinously expensive follies. In the first he sealed some 100 volunteers in a bunker in Manhattan wired with cameras and outfitted with guns. He called this 1999 project ''Quiet: We Live in Public,'' though it was anything but. Over their month of confinement these pod people turned progressively rowdier, letting it all hang out, sometimes while weeping and screaming, for the viewing pleasure of the other inhabitants. 
 Mr. Harris invited Ondi Timoner, the director and writer of ''We Live in Public,'' to shoot the experiment, which explains the wealth of images in this movie. Some of the more disturbing ones invoke the bullying techniques of discredited self-help groups like EST. The bunker itself suggests a wired version of a model prison designed by the 18th-century British philosopher Jeremy Bentham that he called the Panopticon, which allows a guardian to watch inmates who, because of the structure's design, can never see that they're being observed. This constant surveillance would become an instrument of control because the prisoners, not knowing if they were being watched, would, out of uncertainty, behave as if they were. Not surprisingly, Bentham's design has become a favorite metaphor for life in the surveillance age. 
 Although the men and women in ''Quiet'' knew they were being observed, the ubiquity of the cameras and monitors meant that their actions were part of a visual stream that blurred their individual actions, turning them into an undifferentiated mass. It's no wonder that some of the participants Ms. Timoner later interviewed likened the experience to fascism. Mr. Harris wasn't a fascist, of course, just a manipulator of sizable economic means whose motivations, ethics and sanity were all in question. He compared himself to Warhol, an analogy some journalists ignorantly parroted, but he comes off as a rich bully who enjoyed buying other people's time and even their tears. (In the movie's production notes he is described as a ''professional artist.'')
 Mr. Harris continued his experimentation on a more intimate level with his girlfriend, Tanya Corrin, with whom he lived online in constant view of anyone with a computer. There were cameras in the bedroom, the litter box and even the toilet bowl, a vantage point that offered viewers images that perhaps more than most revealed how Mr. Harris felt about other people. The happy couple soon soured, turning to the project's chat room for company and later relationship solace. As she does with the ''Quiet'' project, Ms. Timoner weaves in chunks of this increasingly unpleasant second endeavor, weliveinpublic.com, with a cacophony of music and colorful graphics along with witnesses who, against the odds, try to wring sense from Mr. Harris's mess. 
 Ms. Timoner questions his mental health, but she doesn't seriously engage with the issues her documentary raises, including whether the right to privacy will survive given how eagerly so many now surrender themselves to the camera. At one point she describes ''Quiet'' as a metaphor for how Mr. Harris believed we would live in the Internet age. Later, citing the example of how online sites mine our data, she asserts: ''We all willingly share this information. We enjoy the attention, the feedback, the comments.'' 
 We do and we don't, but she doesn't explore the nuances. From the ample evidence, Mr. Harris's own life in public was a bust. Ms. Timoner sees him as a cautionary tale as well as a visionary; what I see is that, as with many things, too much ''Gilligan's Island'' can be bad for you.
 WE LIVE IN PUBLIC
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Written and directed by Ondi Timoner; narrated by Ms. Timoner; directors of photography, Ms. Timoner and Vasco Nunes; edited by Josh Altman and Ms. Timoner; music by Ben Decter and Marco d'Ambrosio; produced by Ms. Timoner and Keirda Bahruth; released by Interloper Films and Abramorama. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Participants in Josh Harris's project ''Quiet,'' in which volunteers were sealed in a bunker wired with cameras, from the documentary ''We Live in Public.''
 Volunteers in the 30-day bunker project, from Ondi Timoner's ''We Live in Public.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DONNA FERRATO/INTERLOPER FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); BROADBAND (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%); ETHIOPIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



743 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Dell Beats Forecasts, Then Surges

BYLINE: By DAN ZEHR

 BODY:
For years, Dell feasted on a banquet of corporate technology spending, as large companies spent millions of dollars every three years or so to update their fleets of personal computers. However, ever since the recession began more than a year ago, the computer maker has had to fight for every morsel as companies hoarded their technology dollars.
 Now, Dell's involuntary diet looks as if it might be coming to an end.
 On Thursday, after Dell reported unexpectedly strong second-quarter earnings, executives said that its commercial business should pick up again in 2010, starting in the United States. 
 The advent of new technologies from Intel and Microsoft, including October's release of the Windows 7 operating system, and the cost of maintaining older machines will spur companies to replace their aging PC fleets, said Brian T. Gladden, Dell's chief financial officer. ''We've seen the whole entire installed base is basically 12 to 15 months older than it usually is,'' he said.
 A new refresh cycle could prove vital for the recovery efforts at Dell, which despite its recent struggles remains a top contender in the market for commercial desktop and notebook sales. The company, based in Round Rock, Tex., generates more than 80 percent of its revenue from commercial customers, and it continues to lean heavily on sales of PCs even as it expands its higher-end products and services.
 On a conference call with investors to discuss the quarterly financial results, Michael S. Dell, the chief executive, said the company already had won bids to upgrade several large computer fleets. While many deployments have been delayed because of tight budgets, he said, ''we're convinced they'll occur.'' 
 Dell reported net income of $472 million, or 24 cents a share, for the quarter ended July 31. That was a 23 percent decline from the $616 million in net income, or 31 cents a share, reported in the period last year. Excluding costs associated with its continuing revamping, the company reported earnings of 28 cents a share, substantially exceeding the forecast of 23 cents a share from analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
 Dell's revenue declined 22 percent, to $12.8 billion, from $16.4 billion a year ago. Analysts had expected revenue of $12.6 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
 Looking ahead, Mr. Dell said he expected revenue in the second half of the fiscal year to be stronger than in the first half.
 The better-than-expected performance caused Dell's stock price to surge nearly 7 percent, to $15.65, in the final minutes of trading Thursday. The shares had been roughly flat, but about 15 minutes before the 4 p.m. market close, they started rising sharply on heavy volume. About three minutes before the market closed, the company put out its full earnings news release, which had been scheduled to come out after the close of trading.
 Jess Blackburn, a Dell spokesman, said the company accidentally posted some material from its quarterly financial presentation too early. ''It was an inadvertent error on our part,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''Consistent with full disclosure, we immediately posted our news release as soon as we recognized what had happened.''
 The brightest spot for the quarter came from Dell's public group, which includes government, school and health care customers. Buoyed in part by customers' use of federal stimulus funds and strong sales to educational institutions, revenue for that group rose to $3.8 billion, a 20 percent increase over the previous quarter.
 David Bailey, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said he was pleased to see that Dell's gross profit margin actually rose slightly in the quarter. He said that the company appeared to be selling a more profitable mix of products. ''That puts them in a better position in the near term,'' he said.
 Dell's efforts to improve its cost base should also put it in a good position to defend and perhaps expand its commercial market share, he said. The company has spent the last two years revamping its operations to gain a better competitive footing.
 Its ability to recapture or expand its share of large PC contracts will be a critical test of its reorganization efforts.
 Meanwhile, rivals have upped the ante. In particular, Hewlett-Packard has gained significant momentum in the last two years. The company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., now ships more PCs worldwide than any other computer maker. It accounted for 19.8 percent of worldwide PC shipments in the second quarter, according to IDC, a research firm. Dell, once the market leader, was a distant second with 13.7 percent.
 Throughout 2008, Dell retained its lead in market share for shipments to commercial customers, according to IDC. But during the second quarter, H.P. passed Dell in that segment, too, IDC said.
 ''H.P. has a much higher proportion of its business in the consumer market, so it gets a proportionally better lift when consumers are buying and corporations aren't,'' said Roger L. Kay, president of Endpoint Technologies Associates. ''If corporations are buying, Dell gets a bigger swing than H.P.''
 A positive swing from corporate technology spending cannot come soon enough for Dell. Its commercial businesses showed some early signs of recovery in the company's most recent quarter, but revenue and profit fell far short of last year.
 H.P.'s momentum could help sway a handful of corporate technology buyers, said Matthew Eastwood, vice president of enterprise platform research at IDC, but large companies do not change PC vendors on a whim. Companies typically want to maintain some consistency with vendors and supplies, he said, and being clued in on a computer maker's road map for future products helps technology managers plan for what's next.
 ''Up until now, a lot of the end users and actual customers have been very quiet, sitting back and more or less trying to manage their infrastructure by looking in the rearview mirror,'' Mr. Eastwood said. ''Now they're starting to shift and focus toward the future again: 'What kind of investments am I going to make in I.T. to fuel my next business cycle?' ''
 Computer makers need to have an answer for that question now, or they risk the loss of new hardware sales and sales of the more profitable services and products that go along with the computer. Sales of technology-management services like online monitoring of PC fleets have become increasingly important for computer makers as profit margins on hardware narrow. 
 Dell has pushed hard into these services through acquisitions, partnerships and internal development work, but its list of services still lags the size and scope of H.P., especially after H.P.'s acquisition of Electronic Data Systems last year. 
 ''If you've got better services than your competitor, then you can drag your hardware in on the one-stop shopping idea,'' Mr. Kay said. ''H.P. is better positioned with its services and software acquisitions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael S. Dell said that his company had won bids to upgrade large computer fleets and that second-half results would be strong.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ED LALLO/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B6) CHART: Jumping the Bell: Dell's stock price rose sharply after the company accidentally released earnings figures a few minutes before the market closed. (Source: Bloomberg)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



744 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Arthur Ashe: A Life Dedicated to the Welfare of Others

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Arthur Ashe is more than the name on the stadium with all the luxury boxes. He is more than the inspiration for the Eric Fischl statue at the south gate to the United States Open. 
 Lately, Ashe's widow has come to think of him as a Bodhisattva -- ''a beautiful Buddhist term for a person who is dedicated to the ultimate welfare of other beings,'' as Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe put it the other day. 
 She considers the possibility that Arthur achieved Buddhahood, either during his 49 years or after his life was cut short in 1993 by AIDS from a blood transfusion. 
 Arthur Ashe remains the only man of color to win the United States Open (in 1968), the Australian Open (in 1970) or Wimbledon (in 1975). He is also the inspiration for the annual Arthur AsheKids' Day, which will be held at the expensive bazaar on Saturday. And he is one of the founders of the National Junior Tennis and Learning network, which prepares young people for sport and for life. 
 He remains a presence. Every time I hear his name, I think of the slim young player, peering owlishly at the clubby world of the West Side Tennis Club at Forest Hills, which he had worked so hard to reach, and I also think of the wan retired athlete, stricken by the heart trouble that would indirectly kill him. 
 In the late 1980s, Ashe would wear a naval-officer-style cap with a gold braid on it -- never asked him why -- and he would sit in the press box and schmooze with the regulars. I miss him. Miss the stuff he would teach us, in a kind way. Books. Concepts. History. 
 ''I began to see Arthur's life journey as caring about all sentient beings,'' Moutoussamy-Ashe said recently. ''So much of Buddhism reminds me of Arthur's goals in life, but while he certainly knew about Buddhism he was not a student.''
 Moutoussamy-Ashe does not live in the past. She keeps her name (''Just like me: I could have a name with four letters but I choose to have one with 15,'' she said) and continues to work as a photographer, her path when they met. He dropped the world's worst line -- ''Photographers sure are getting cuter'' -- but he did not let her get away.
 As an artist still taking stylish photographs in black and white, she has published three books, but does not yet work with a digital camera. (''I am a Neanderthal,'' she said.) She had input into the statue the United States Tennis Association placed at the south end of the National Tennis Center, now named after Billie Jean King. 
 The statue by Fischl, known for his ability to shock, depicts a man, a nude man, coiled into the serve position, but with only the handle of a racket in his hand. Some people gasp or titter when they see the statue for the first time.
 ''This is a figure -- serving,'' Moutoussamy-Ashe said, patiently. ''The message is service. There is no racket. It's so metaphorical.'' She paused and added, ''I voted for it.''
 A ball that Arthur tossed deftly into the air in 1969 remains in play. He and Charlie Pasarell, his college teammate and friend for life, and Sheridan Snyder, another friend, formed the National Junior Tennis League for children like Ashe, who had moved from Virginia to Missouri so he could play tennis beyond the bounds of overt segregation. Recently the word ''league'' has been replaced by ''learning,'' which was always part of the program. 
 In 1999, the network began a contest for the best essay about the life of Ashe. The winner was 12-year-old Blake Strode from St. Louis, who this year graduated from the University of Arkansas with a 3.972 grade-point average. Strode has delayed his entrance to law school at Harvard to try the tennis circuit for a year.
 ''The N.J.T.L. gave me a kick-start,'' Strode said the other day. ''I had already started playing tennis, but at 9 my mom dropped me off every morning in Forest Park. The clinics and the tennis were the highlight of my day.'' He said the racial picture has improved greatly since the days of Ashe and Althea Gibson, the first black female champion, but added that tennis still presented economic and social barriers.
 The junior tennis league, backed by the U.S.T.A., reaches an estimated 220,000 youths each year. ''It's family,'' Moutoussamy-Ashe said. ''It's Thanksgiving. It's Christmas. There may be some people you don't want to see, but it's family. It's always there. It's never not a part of me.''
 Moutoussamy-Ashe told how she slipped 6-year-old Camera (now a student at Hunter College in Manhattan) into the hospital, against the rules, and how the little girl recoiled at the grim reality. Her bed-ridden father held her and called her Precious and told her it was all right to be scared. 
 ''Arthur was a mixture of common sense, kindness and doing,'' Moutoussamy-Ashe said. And she added, ''Now everything is about you.'' Ashe came from a time and place when people had a glimmer of some communal good. Only now is his wife able to put a name on what she thinks he achieved: a state of Buddhahood.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Blake Strode, above left in 2008, won a contest as a 12-year-old in 1999 for the best essay about Arthur Ashe's life. Ashe helped found the National Junior Tennis League, where Strode played.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS
 ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (84%); RELIGION (76%); AIDS & HIV (71%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (60%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (55%)

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



745 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: House by House, A Sun Belt Setback

BYLINE: By JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
For years, business boomed at Gilberto Preciado's home-furnishings store in a working-class neighborhood near downtown Phoenix. But on a recent afternoon his showroom was deserted. Other businesses in his strip mall have been shutting down at a brisk clip.
 With a big grocery store nearby gone already, the parking lot was an empty field of asphalt baking in the sun. ''You stand out there a couple of hours and you hear crickets,'' Mr. Preciado said.
 In a little more than three years, the Phoenix area has gone from the hottest of Sun Belt hot spots to one of the nation's economic disaster areas. It is not alone in its rapid fall.
 After riding high during the boom, the Las Vegas area, parts of southern Florida, and Southern California's inland counties have also been brought low by plunging payrolls, billions lost in housing wealth, a continuing epidemic of foreclosures, record government budget deficits and stagnating populations. 
 These areas share one thing besides their warm climates. To a degree unmatched in the rest of the country, their recent prosperity was built not on manufacturing, technology or natural resources, but on construction and real estate -- growth for its own sake.
 As other areas tasted the excesses of the housing boom, they gorged on it. From 2002 to 2006, about 20 percent of private industry growth in the United States was tied to real estate and construction. In the Phoenix area, almost 36 percent of growth in the private economy during that period -- more than $34 billion worth -- came from real estate and construction. 
 That expansion was driven in large part by capital flows from Wall Street and abroad, which financed a wave of speculative residential and commercial development. Overbuilding, in turn, accelerated the region's already rapid population growth.
 In essence, many people began moving to Phoenix and other parts of the Sun Belt to build houses and stores for the next wave of people who would move there. Now, that influx has slowed or, in some places, stopped entirely. 
 ''We've been on a growth sugar high, and you know what happens when a sugar high runs out,'' said Scott Smith, mayor of Mesa, Ariz., a once-small Phoenix suburb that has become the nation's 38th-largest city. ''When it stops, the punishment is severe.'' 
 Now, the long-term prospects for these regions are cloudy.
 Their political leaders think that migration from the Rust Belt will inevitably rebound, in turn reviving residential construction. But some experts are skeptical, warning that a housing boom that was fed by reckless lending will prove difficult to resuscitate.
 ''Places that were built on real estate speculation or as retirement and second-home communities are going to have a harder time, unless they double down and begin to build real economies,'' said Richard Florida, the urban theorist and author. 
 Even those who are relatively bullish on recovery for the former hot spots, like David Denslow, a professor of economics at the University of Florida, doubt that the extraordinary population growth seen in past decades will return anytime soon.
 ''Growth will never be what it was in the 1990s, and by no stretch of the imagination what it was in the early 2000s,'' Professor Denslow said. ''That is gone.''
 It is clear in retrospect that in parts of the Sun Belt, the economic dependence on construction reached unhealthy levels in recent years. 
 In Orlando, Fla., for instance, construction and real estate accounted for almost 33 percent of all economic output by private industry in 2006, compared with a national average of about 20 percent, according to data from the United States Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the Miami, Las Vegas and Phoenix metropolitan areas, as well as California's San Bernardino and Riverside counties, it was near or above 30 percent.
 By contrast, in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, 18 percent of economic activity was in real estate and construction at the peak of the housing bubble. In Charlotte, N.C., it was just 15 percent. 
 Those cities have suffered during the recession, but not as much as the former boomtowns. Home prices in Charlotte are down only 11 percent from their peak, compared with 54 percent in Phoenix. And Charlotte's job losses, while severe, are also spread almost evenly across several sectors. That is unlike Phoenix and Las Vegas, where job losses in construction have far outstripped those in other industries -- down by 45 percent from their peak in Phoenix, for instance.
 In Arizona, the construction job losses helped drive the unemployment rate to 9.2 percent this July, up from 3.7 percent the same month two years ago. Florida and Nevada, with unemployment at 10.7 percent and 12.5 percent respectively, are also struggling with high rates of joblessness. 
 While central Arizona has other economic pillars, including a substantial technology and aerospace industry, some experts say only a revival in residential construction can provide enough employment to return the region to strong growth.
 ''I really think we have to start building houses again to get the economy rolling,'' said Marshall Vest, a University of Arizona economist who has written closely watched economic forecasts of the state for more than 30 years.
 A strong housing recovery faces serious obstacles in all the former Sun Belt hot spots, however. Among them is the prospect that the population growth to which they have long been accustomed is stagnating, or even beginning to reverse.
 Florida's population shrank recently, for the first time since 1946. According to estimates by the University of Florida's Bureau of Economic and Business Research, the state lost more than 58,000 residents in the year leading up to April 2009. 
 According to estimates by demographers in Clark County, Nev., Las Vegas also experienced population loss, about 9,000 people from July 2007 to July 2008. The shift amounts to a sea change for the city, which has had average population growth of 5.2 percent annually since 1991, one of the highest rates in the country. 
 (Other population estimates for Las Vegas, including those by the Census Bureau, show some growth during this period, in part because the formulas used to produce them are less responsive to rapid change in housing occupancy rates. Local demographers have adjusted their methodology to account for the increased number of homes built but never occupied, or left vacant by foreclosures.)
 Stagnant and falling populations will further complicate efforts to dispose of the large inventory of unsold homes in these regions. The housing markets in all of them are saturated with foreclosures.
 Even after housing inventories return to normal levels, builders face another hurdle: a banking industry that has been burned by construction bets in these former hot spots.
 ''I think the lenders are going to be very, very cautious,'' said Jack Kyser, founding economist of the Kyser Center for Economic Research in Los Angeles.
 Indeed, the role irrational lending played in driving economic growth in these regions was pronounced. Speculation led to a spree of overbuilding, drawing thousands to cities like Las Vegas and Phoenix for construction jobs. As these new arrivals themselves bought homes, the building boom took on a life of its own. 
 Retail spending surged, spurring a wave of commercial real estate development, in turn further lifting the construction industry. ''We had growth based on growth,'' said Keith Schwer, director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
 When the boom ended, thousands of people were caught in the aftermath.
 Brandi andEric Wynne, with four children, bought a new home near Buckeye, Ariz., one of the most distant Phoenix suburbs, in 2007. Not long after they closed on their house, Mr. Wynne, 33, lost his job installing cabinets in new homes, and the couple fell behind on their mortgage. 
 On a Friday afternoon this July, Mrs. Wynne, 28, sold bric-a-brac in a yard sale while her husband packed boxes inside. On the curb sat a large yellow moving van. The bank was seizing the house the next Wednesday; by that time, the family would be on their way to St. Louis, where they had decided to move. 
 ''This was our dream home,'' said Mrs. Wynne. ''Now we're giving it back.''
 The bust has also hit the immigrant-heavy working-class neighborhoods in the inner city. The Arizona Department of Health Services, using a formula based on birth trends, estimates that about 120,000 to 260,000 Hispanics have left the state since late 2007. Falling school enrollments and rising apartment vacancies in Hispanic neighborhoods also suggest a large out-migration is under way.
 Gilberto Preciado's home furnishings store, located in a working-class Hispanic neighborhood in central Phoenix, catered to the immigrant market, selling things like bedroom sets and refrigerators. The flow of new arrivals slowed sharply in the summer of 2007, Mr. Preciado said, and by the beginning of 2008, people were leaving the neighborhood, as job losses in the building trade rippled through the broader economy. Food City, a grocery store in his strip mall that had lured many shoppers, closed in July.
 ''Construction, the service industry -- all that started trickling down,'' Mr. Preciado said. ''It was a domino effect.''
 Mr. Preciado worked at his father's furniture store during the last severe downturn, in the early 1980s, before striking out on his own 15 years ago. By his estimate, even the 1980s recession pales in comparison with today's problems.
 ''Back when I opened up the business, I knew there were going to be bad days,'' he said. ''I never expected it to be this bad, though. I've never seen anything like this before.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the slowing influx of people and industry to Phoenix and other parts of the Sun Belt referred incorrectly in some editions to the losses in Arizona's Hispanic population. The Arizona Department of Health Services estimates that 120,000 to 260,000 Hispanics have left the state as a whole, not just the Phoenix area, since late 2007.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Food City, an anchor in a shopping center near downtown Phoenix, closed after the owner of the chain declared bankruptcy.(B1)
Gilberto Preciado owns a furniture store in Phoenix. ''Back when I opened up the business, I knew there were going to be bad days. I never expected it to be this bad,'' he said of the downturn.
 Brandi and Eric Wynne bought a home near Buckeye, Ariz., but Mr. Wynne lost his job and they fell behind on the mortgage.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) CHART: Dependent on Real Estate: As the real estate boom peaked, some cities' economies became heavily dependent on construction and real estate, which may make economic recovery in those areas more difficult . . .(Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



746 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Send In Rude Clowns And Various Oddballs

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
In its first week the New York International Fringe Festival can seem vast and impenetrable, one of the few times of year when you enter the theater with almost no idea of what to expect. By week 2, however, reviews and word of mouth spread, and for alert audiences the menu of more than 200 shows shrinks to a few hits everyone's talking about.
 The chance of disaster (and epiphany) decreases as the Fringe becomes more like downtown theater the rest of the year. 
 Of the Fringe elite this summer, no show has polarized more theatergoers than ''666,'' a raucous collection of physical comedy sketches from a Madrid company, Yllana, which has created 16 shows since 1991. European reviews ranged from glowing (The French newsmagazine L'Express describes ''666'' as a ''masterwork of black humor'') to groaning (The Guardian of London: ''Only for the drunk or dim''). 
 The good, dirty fun begins after a metal gate opens at the back of the set, revealing four grunting, wordless prisoners (Raul Cano, Fidel Fernandez, Joe O'Curneen and Juan Ramos Toro) hunched in threatening poses, ready to strike. And when they do, it's best to keep a distance. These brutes, who pantomime spilling buckets of imaginary blood and bodily fluid, pester the audience, laugh themselves silly killing one another and dedicate considerable creative resources to plumbing the comic possibilities of urine. (Trust me: they can seem endless.)
 At one point the most timid-looking performer pretends to rip someone's heart out and then impales it on a giant phallus strapped to his waist -- while standing on a seat over a few nervous audience members in the second row. 
 The Fringe has a long, ignoble history of obscene clown shows. Three years ago Billy the Mime set the bar pretty high (or maybe low?) by impersonating a fetus during an abortion. But make no mistake: as soon as one of the four Spanish performers guns down an old-fashioned mime in slow-motion, his splattering brains represented with economy by a flick of the fingers, the gauntlet has been thrown down. 
 In an online interview with The New York Times, Juan Urrutia, the producer of the United States production of the show, described ''666,'' scored to a soundtrack of heavy metal, hip-hop and John Carpenter's theme from ''Halloween,'' as Swiftian. That's the kind of thing that a producer says when he has dreams of Blue Man Group dancing in his head. The truth is that this is very dumb stuff, choreographed and performed with startling elegance.
 ''The Adventures of Alvin Sputnik: Deep Sea Explorer'' and ''The 49 Project'' -- two other leaders in Fringe Festival buzz -- imagine political fantasies set in a dark vision of the future. ''The 49 Project,'' written by the young playwright Mary Adkins, provocatively speculates about what would happen if American women organized and consolidated power, taking advantage of their majority status to pass discriminatory laws against men. It's either a nightmare or a revenge fantasy, depending on your point of view.
 The title refers to a male-rights group run by a true believer, Nathan (Clayton Apgar), whose mission for sex equality seems to be going nowhere. Ms. Adkins, a Yale law student (it's the rare play where the protagonist proclaims his love for the Constitution), writes in a slickly cinematic style, but she gets bogged down in a courtroom drama that sends the play in a direction less interesting than the conceit promises. 
 If ''The 49 Project'' appears like ''District 9'' for the gender-studies crowd, ''Alvin Sputnik,'' an endearing Australian solo show told in stick-figure animation and puppetry by Tim Watts, will remind you of a more innocent summer blockbuster. Its unlikely mix of environmental disaster, twee humor and cutie-pie whimsy makes it something akin to a theatrical ''Wall-E.''
 The ice caps have melted, and Earth is flooded, leaving humanity's last, best hope an adorable, round-headed explorer looking for the soul of his late wife. This may sound like heavy material, but with a seamless blend of live drawing projected on a round screen accompanying simple animation, Mr. Watts creates a vivid new theatrical world on a slim budget. 
 Of the many oddballs at this year's Fringe, my favorite would have to be the narrator of ''The K of D, an Urban Legend,'' a macabre solo show by Laura Schellhardt that begins, appropriately enough, in the dark. Played with a twitchy charm by Renata Friedman, this lanky girl with spidery limbs appears to be caught awkwardly between childhood and adulthood. She says her tale is about a skinny friend named Charlotte whose twin brother was killed, not before he passed along to her what, rumor has it, is ''the kiss of death.'' 
 Playing more than a dozen characters in a small Ohio town, the virtuoso Ms. Friedman offers a bird's-eye view of a tiny, cloistered world. And as the multitude of vividly imagined characters burst out of this slight performer, the narrator herself begins to fade into the background, lost in the colorful fabric of the creepy story, the kind that kids tell around a campfire. It's a clever trick in a play with many. When she regains focus at the chilling conclusion, it's like a spotlight in a blackout. 
 ''The K of D'' is just the kind of crafty ghost story that the veteran Fringe playwright Daniel MacIvor is known for. This prolific Canadian's early New York premieres at the Fringe (''See Bob Run,'' ''Never Swim Alone'') were marked by clever structural conceits, direct-address monologues and a chilly Gothic streak. His more recent dramas, like the delicately drawn ''Marion Bridge'' and ''A Beautiful View,'' which opened at larger theaters, also examine issues of mortality and identity. But these plays, moving minor-key portraits infused with melancholy and love, demonstrate a new emotional depth and a confidence in the patience of the audience. ''His Greatness,'' his much-anticipated return to the Fringe, belongs to this mature phase but also represents its limits. 
 The tightly focused play, a fictional three-person drama inspired by the tragic last days in the life of Tennessee Williams, takes place over the course of one day. An aging, drunken writer, called simply the Playwright (Peter Goldfarb), attends the opening night of a reworked show at a theater in Vancouver with his officious assistant (Dan Domingues), who works diligently to keep his boss running on schedule, sober and entertained. His responsibilities include recruiting a young hustler (Michael Busillo) to accompany the Playwright to the theater.
 It's a melancholy slice-of-life portrait of a great man disintegrating before your eyes, but in this production by Tom Gualtieri, the emotional stakes never truly register. There's something almost too orderly about ''His Greatness,'' a very accessible, well-made drama about a difficult, occasionally vicious mess of a man. It's compassionate, to be sure, but where is the pathos, the biting wit, the lust? For a play about a one-night stand, the staging here is very hands off.
 In a program note Mr. MacIvor describes Williams as an early inspiration, a surprising admission. While both playwrights have created delicate, emotionally shattered characters, they work in strikingly different styles. Where Williams's poetic plays burn hot and bright, Mr. MacIvor's disciplined reserve is much cooler.
 And this odd match is most obvious in the new drama's central character, a sloppy, self-destructive celebrity who never truly comes into focus, partly because of a disappointingly mild performance by Mr. Goldfarb. I can forgive his wavering Southern accent, but when a big, meaty role like this presents itself, it's essential to take a large bite. He just nibbles. 
 The New York International Fringe Festival runs through Sunday; fringenyc.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Raucous antics: Members of the Spanish theater group Yllana in ''666,'' part of the New York Fringe festival.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MABEL CAINZOS)(pg. C1)
Tim Watts in his whimsical solo show ''The Adventures of Alvin Sputnik: Deep Sea Explorer.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE ROBIN ANDERSON)
 Renata Friedman in ''The K of D,'' about, uh, a kiss of death.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS BENNION)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); DANCE (78%); HALLOWEEN (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ABORTION (61%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%)

COMPANY: MAN GROUP PLC (50%)

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%)

TITLE: 666 (Play); Adventures of Alvin Sputnik: Deep Sea Explorer, The (Play); 49 Project, The (Play); K of D, an Urban Legend, The (Play); His Greatness (Play); 666 (Play); Adventures of Alvin Sputnik: Deep Sea Explorer, The (Play); 49 Project, The (Play); K of D, an Urban Legend, The (Play); His Greatness (Play)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



747 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: $9 Trillion In Deficit? Maybe Not

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Ten years ago, Washington was worried about the budget outlook, and there were forecasts of dire outcomes. And so it is today.
 The difference is the nature of the worries. Alan Greenspan, then the Federal Reserve chairman, talked about the dangers of a shortage of Treasury securities as the $5 trillion surplus forecast for the next decade enabled the national debt to be paid down. This week we were warned of a $9 trillion deficit over the next 10 years.
 ''The last time people got really excited about a 10-year budget outlook, they were hysterically wrong about what transpired,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG, who mocked the surplus forecasts then and now thinks the consensus outlook is too negative.
 ''The $5 trillion surplus was a 'nothing can go wrong' forecast,'' he said. ''No recessions, no wars, no bear markets and a perpetuation of inexplicably high tax receipts. You can make the case that the current conversations about our fiscal outlook are effectively, 'Nothing can go right.' The estimates assume we continue to allocate over $100 billion a year for fighting wars. They assume a very mild recovery for the economy, and an even milder recovery for tax receipts.'' 
 It was easier a decade ago to know the forecast was foolish, although few did. The assumption that politicians would refrain from cutting taxes or raising spending in the face of large surpluses had no historical support.
 On the other hand, the notion that politicians will point fingers and do nothing as deficits mount has plenty of historical support. 
 One unusual factor now is that everyone agrees Congress must pass a new tax law. If it does not, taxes on nearly everyone will soar under an absurd plan enacted in 2001 called the snap-back tax, which provides that in 2011 the tax law that had been in effect in 2000 will reappear. 
 That would drive tax rates up sharply for most people, which might reduce budget deficits. But it is hardly what anyone wants if the economy is not booming by then.
 Most of the tax changes being mulled can await Congressional action until next year. Under the snap-back tax plan, however, the estate tax is set to vanish for a year if nothing happens before the end of 2009, just over four months from now. 
 Heirs of a very rich person who died on Dec. 31, 2010, would get everything, without any estate tax. If that person died a day later, his or her estate would owe 55 percent of everything over $1 million. (I call that the Dr. Kevorkian provision, after the physician who specialized in assisted suicides until he was sent to prison.) How will hospitals respond if heirs demand that life support be ended before the clock strikes 12?
 It would have been nice to fix that up in a nonelection year, but the health care debate has consumed Congress. The chairman of one tax-writing committee, Senator Max Baucus, is still trying to shape a bipartisan health care bill, a Sisyphean task that may not leave much time for taxes. The other chairman, Representative Charles Rangel, has just discovered that he forgot to mention a checking account with more than $250,000 in it when he listed his assets. Tax policy may not be on the top of his to-do list either, at least while the dual investigations of his ethics are continuing.
 The country got into the current tax mess because George W. Bush wanted it all in 2001. He could overcome procedural hurdles in the Senate and make the 10-year cost of his tax cut appear lower, if the entire bill was labeled temporary. So it was. 
 To make things worse, that bill did nothing about the alternative minimum tax, which was supposed to catch wealthy citizens with big deductions and force them to pay something. By not lowering the A.M.T. rates when ordinary tax rates were cut, the law negated the cuts for millions of middle-class people. Now Congress passes a temporary fix every year to keep that from happening. President Obama wants to make that fix permanent, something Mr. Bush was hesitant to do because it would have made deficit forecasts look worse.
 When Congress does get around to tax law, the political calculations could be fun to watch. Read the numbers one way, and President Obama's proposals call for big increases in taxes on every group. Read them another way, they call for tax cuts for every group except the most prosperous one-tenth of 1 percent of Americans. Guess which interpretation the Republicans, and the Democrats, will choose.
 The numbers to back each interpretation come from a new study by the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, estimating effective federal tax rates using both current law and President Obama's legislative proposals. The figures include all federal taxes, allocating corporate taxes to the owners of those companies and payroll taxes to the employees. Middle-income people tend to pay higher payroll taxes than the rich, because there is no Social Security tax on high incomes. The poorest are exempt from income tax, but do pay payroll taxes if they earn money.
 In 2009, the average effective rate for all Americans is estimated to be 18.2 percent. The center estimates that if there are no changes in the law, that will rise to 23.4 percent in 2012. If the president's proposals are all adopted, the figure that year will be 20.7 percent, with increases from 2009 for every group -- those with the lowest incomes as well as those with the highest. How can that be, given that the president has promised to raise taxes only on those who make at least $250,000 a year? 
 Roberton Williams, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center, points to two reasons. First, Mr. Obama does not want to continue some special tax breaks, like a tax credit for new homeowners, that were part of the stimulus package he pushed through Congress. More important, the 2012 estimates assume a better economy, in which incomes will be higher and more people will therefore be in higher tax brackets.
 Mr. Williams argues that, eventually, President Obama's vow not to raise taxes on the middle class is going to have to be violated. ''There is just not enough money'' earned by the very, very rich, Mr. Williams said.
 When, or if, the government does confront the need for more revenue, Mr. Williams says he thinks it might adopt a value-added tax, which amounts to a national sales tax. Others urge energy taxes, to both bring in revenue and discourage energy consumption. Either would be political dynamite if there were not some sort of bipartisan agreement.
 Some countries, particularly in eastern Europe, went on enforced austerity this year because no one would lend them money. In the United States, with its dollar printing presses, we assume that could never happen. But it is conceivable that someday investors will grow cautious about lending to a country with so little self-control and demand higher interest rates to protect them from the possibility of a depreciating dollar. Or they might insist on lending in euros or Chinese renminbi, currencies the American government cannot print.
 Before the United States gets serious about raising taxes, I suspect that inflation will start to seem much more attractive, even if few are willing to say so publicly. In the past, inflation has enabled the United States to reduce the burden of repaying existing debt, and China, for one, has voiced fears we will do it again. Widespread inflation could also make depreciated assets -- like homes -- worth more dollars than the owner now owes. 
 Ben Bernanke got a second term as Fed chairman this week, something he earned for his evident success in dealing with the financial crisis. (He failed to see the crisis coming, but few others who might have gotten the job could claim a more prescient record.) In this term, he may find that inflation-fighting is not the road to popularity.
 His reappointment should serve as a reminder that things could be much worse. Which would you rather worry about: the specter of Great Depression II, which seemed so real only six months ago, or the possibility of excessive budget deficits in the next decade?

GRAPHIC: CHART: Effective U.S. federal tax rates (Source: Tax Policy Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ESTATE TAX (88%); ESTATE PLANNING (84%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX RELIEF (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); DEATH & DYING (65%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); SUICIDE (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



748 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: State Fair Is a Pick-Me-Up for Paterson

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: SYRACUSE 

 BODY:
Somewhere between meeting the Dairy Princess of Cortland County and pausing to admire a giant butter cube sculptured into the shape of a dairy truck, Gov. David A. Paterson paused to greet Randy Lincoln, who had called out to the governor with words of reassurance.
 ''We're solidly behind you -- from one state employee to another,'' said Mr. Lincoln, 56, of Clyde, N.Y., an employment counselor for disabled adults. 
 Mr. Paterson reached out to embrace Mr. Lincoln and insisted that he pose for a picture. ''Thank you. Thank you,'' Mr. Paterson said. A group of photographers clicked away.
 As he wound down one of the most difficult weeks he has encountered since becoming governor, Mr. Paterson found catharsis on Thursday at the New York State Fairgrounds, where he spent five hours largely not having to worry about his sagging poll numbers or the provocative comments he made last week in which he suggested that some of his critics were racially biased.
 He sampled state fair delicacies -- a vanilla milkshake for a prelunch snack, followed by a sausage sandwich with peppers and onions. He mingled with state fair royalty -- the New York State Maple Queen and the Western New York Maple Princess, among others. He posed for pictures -- at least 2,500 of them, taken by three photographers who were there to document the trip for him (one from his campaign and two from the governor's office). 
 Mr. Paterson stopped to chat with just about everyone who wanted to bend his ear, and even some who did not. 
 Chris Volles of Tully, about 20 miles south of Syracuse, was eating lunch with her family when a member of Mr. Paterson's entourage beckoned her to pose for a picture with the governor.
 ''We were like, 'Yeah, I guess,' '' Ms. Volles, 49, recalled, acknowledging that as an opponent of abortion rights, she could never vote for Mr. Paterson, a liberal Democrat. After she posed for the picture, Ms. Volles called her husband to tell him she had just met the governor. 
 ''He said, 'Is that a good thing or a bad thing?' '' she said. ''I guess it's kind of an indifferent thing. I know his poll numbers are dropping like a rock. But it was still neat. He is the governor.''
 Most of the people Mr. Paterson encountered on Thursday were somewhat more star-struck. Moe Thweatt, an employee at Shake It Up, an ice cream and milkshake stand, shrieked as the governor walked past her. ''Governor Paterson! What flavor do you want?'' Ms. Thweatt, 61, of Syracuse, asked eagerly. When he replied, ''Vanilla,'' she promptly whipped up the shake and delivered it to him. 
 Mr. Paterson sipped it, put his arm around Ms. Thweatt and posed for the cameras.
 Edward D. Helinski, 51, of Auburn, N.Y., was beaming after he posed with the governor. ''You guys are the best,'' he said to Mr. Paterson's handlers, who were passing out cards that had an e-mail address and a file number for those who wanted a copy of their picture. ''Man. Wow! I got a picture with the governor!''
 Mr. Helinski, a sales manager for an upstate health magazine, said he believed that Mr. Paterson would be having an easier time as governor if the economy were not so weak. ''He's going through some tough times, but I'm a fan,'' Mr. Helinski said. ''He comes across to me as a fair man. He's been given a terrible situation to right, and he's made some decisions that are unpopular. But we've all had to make hard decisions in this tough economy.''
 Mr. Paterson said he could understand why New Yorkers, many of whom are unhappy with cutbacks to state services and with having to pay higher taxes that the governor signed into law, would be displeased with him. 
 ''If I wasn't governor, I don't think I would be particularly happy with the number of cuts and changes that we've made,'' he said, addressing reporters after he introduced the country musician Chuck Wicks to an adoring crowd of more than 1,000 at the fairgrounds. ''And that's because we didn't govern with discipline and effectiveness previously. And so that's how I'm going to try to govern for the rest of this term. And I think with that kind of formula, I may have another term.''
 Campaign-style meet-and-greets like the one at the fair on Thursday are generally uplifting experiences, Mr. Paterson said. 
 ''Most of the times that I've seen the public directly, I've been surprised at how encouraging they are,'' he said. ''They will say: 'We know these are tough times. We know they're beating you up, but hang in there. Keep making the tough decisions, and we're with you.' Obviously that's encouraging.''
 Mr. Paterson recalled that one person approached him and brought up the interview last week in which the governor suggested that some of the criticism he and other black politicians faced stemmed from racial bias. Mr. Paterson later said he regretted making the comments.
 ''He said, 'I was real disappointed what I read about you.' He said, 'I've always thought you were better than that,' '' Mr. Paterson said, describing the encounter. ''I said, 'Thank you.' ''
 Later, when asked by a reporter if he was still enjoying the job despite all the recent difficulties and stress, Mr. Paterson replied: ''Yeah. I mean, I do. It's a difficult job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson spent five hours at the New York State Fair in Syracuse on Thursday, meeting, greeting and eating.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY BUTTOLPH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



749 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: France and Germany Warn of New Iran Sanctions

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
On the eve of the release of a report by the International Atomic Energy Agency on Iran, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France have threatened tough new sanctions if Iran does not demonstrate a willingness to negotiate on its nuclear program. 
 Speaking on Thursday at a news conference in Berlin with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, Mrs. Merkel raised the possibility of new penalties against Iran in the energy and financial sectors.
 ''If there is no positive answer by September, we will have to consider further measures,'' she said, according to Reuters. 
 The United States has given Iran until September to give up nuclear enrichment in return for talks on economic incentives -- or face tougher sanctions. 
 Echoing the growing impatience with Iran's reluctance to enter into negotiations, Mr. Sarkozy has also been talking about the possibility of what he called ''severe'' new sanctions against Iran and stronger inspection powers for the atomic energy agency if Iran did not cease its nuclear activities. 
 ''There are the same leaders, in Iran, who tell us that the nuclear program is peaceful and that the elections were honest,'' he said in his annual address to France's ambassadors on Wednesday. ''Frankly, who believes them?''
 Iran says its nuclear program is purely for civilian purposes, to generate energy. But Western countries suspect that Iran is trying to build nuclear weapons.
 The I.A.E.A. is expected to release its latest report on Iran's nuclear program on Friday. The Obama administration and its European allies are pressing the agency to make public evidence that they believe points toward an Iranian drive to gain the ability to build a nuclear weapon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (88%); ANGELA MERKEL (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



750 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: The State of New Orleans: An Update

BYLINE: By AMY LIU AND NIGEL HOLMES

 BODY:
THIS year, the Gulf Coast's recovery from Hurricane Katrina has become President Obama's responsibility. How bad a situation has he inherited?
 The good news is that, on the fourth anniversary of the storm, New Orleans is weathering the recession relatively well. Since June 2008, the metro area has shed only about one percent of its jobs, significantly less than the 4.1 percent of jobs that have been lost nationally. Over the past 12 months, unemployment in New Orleans has mostly hovered around 5 percent. It recently jumped to 7.3 percent, primarily because of an increase in the number of new job seekers (like recent college graduates), but that is still well below the national average of 9.5 percent. At a time when falling home values are keeping many Americans from moving, the city has attracted 10,000 new households, the biggest one-year expansion since 2007. 
Continuing repairs to roads, bridges and public buildings in New Orleans are helping shield the area from a more serious slump. The region is also fortunate not to rely heavily on industries like manufacturing that are shedding jobs. And it has benefited from job growth in its sizable government sector, which handles many recovery-related contracts and activities.
 Yet New Orleans is not impervious to the economic crisis. Its housing market has stalled, with 39 percent fewer people buying homes this year than did the year before, and 48 percent fewer new homes being built. Also, a drop in consumer spending has hurt city sales-tax revenues. 
 Meanwhile, New Orleans still has more than 62,000 blighted and vacant houses and apartment buildings. Rents have leveled off, but they remain 40 percent higher than they were before the storm. People worry about what kind of good, long-term jobs there will be to replace recovery-related jobs when those disappear. 
 In the past eight months, a number of Obama administration officials have visited New Orleans and Mississippi, and they have found ways to help -- for example, by accelerating the pace of repairs and by finding homes for families still living in trailers. But next year's five-year anniversary represents, for many, the midpoint in a 10-year recovery. President Obama's biggest challenge is to work effectively with Louisiana officials and the next mayor of New Orleans to generate enough progress before next August to show that the city is truly reinventing itself, rather than simply returning to a suboptimal normal.
 -- AMY LIU, the deputy director of the metropolitan policy program at the Brookings Institution 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: REBUILDING PROGRESS IN NEW ORLEANS. (Designed by Nigel Holmes.)(SOURCE: GREATER NEW ORLEANS COMMUNITY DATA CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); RECESSION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); FAMILY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); SALES TAX (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2009



751 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FORTY YEARS' WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Hope and Reality in a Cancer Battle

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA and LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
Like almost no one else, Senator Edward M. Kennedy embodied the frustrations of the nation's 40-year war on cancer. 
 Mr. Kennedy strongly supported the idea of a war on cancer, promoting it for months before President Richard M. Nixon announced the battle was to begin in 1971, and advocating for more money than Nixon initially wanted to spend. 
 And when Mr. Kennedy learned he had brain cancer last year, he became one of the millions whose fate was not much changed by the cancer war. Despite billions that have been spent, the death rate from most cancers barely budged. 
 Mr. Kennedy's cancer, a glioblastoma, kills almost everyone who gets it, usually in a little over a year. Although he got the most aggressive treatment, Mr. Kennedy lived just 15 months after his diagnosis -- just about the median survival for patients with his type of tumor who got the radiation and chemotherapy regimen that has become the standard of care. 
 ''This remains just a dreadful tumor,'' said Dr. Eugene S. Flamm, a neurosurgeon at Montefiore Medical Center in New York. Dr. Flamm, who was not involved with Mr. Kennedy's treatment, added that when a patient developed glioblastoma, ''there is not a hell of a lot you can do.''
 The story of Mr. Kennedy's battle with glioblastoma is one that raises questions of hope and reality and of how much the health care system should pay for hope. As has happened with most cancers in the nation's 40-year war on cancer, progress on glioblastomas has been incremental. With these deadly brain cancers in particular, the disease remains poorly understood. And even though many patients, like Mr. Kennedy, who sought care at Duke University Medical Center, travel looking for cutting-edge care, there are limited options for treatment that have been shown to help.
 Yet the cost is high. Estimates of the total cost from experts at various medical centers range from $100,000 to $500,000. 
 ''If you have the insurance to come to Duke, no problem,'' said Dr. Henry Friedman, co-director of the brain tumor center at Duke. But if patients are uninsured or underinsured, the situation is different. Then, he said, ''we will work with their home physician to give them our expertise.''
 Of course, for Mr. Kennedy, who had insurance as a senator, was eligible for Medicare and was personally wealthy, cost was never an issue.
 ''My wife, Vicki, and I have worried about many things, but not whether we could afford my care and treatment,'' he wrote in Newsweek.
 The bright side is that median survival time for glioblastoma patients has more than tripled in the past 40 years, from about four and a half months to 14 or 15 months today. And there are now a few rare patients who live four, five or six years. ''We never saw that before,'' said Dr. Lisa M. DeAngelis, chairwoman of the department of neurology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
 Those extra months are mostly good quality life, said Dr. Mitchel S. Berger, chairman of neurosurgery at the University of California, San Francisco.
 But few are sanguine. 
 ''In no way do I want to come off making it sound like we've done a great job,'' said Dr. Howard A. Fine, chief of the neuro-oncology branch at the National Cancer Institute.
 Mr. Kennedy was extensively involved in the efforts to combat cancer. In the late 1960s, Mary Lasker, a Manhattan philanthropist, was campaigning for an all-out war on cancer and Senator Kennedy became a leading legislative supporter, setting off a tug of war between him and President Nixon for political credit.
 In his State of the Union address in January 1971, Nixon proposed the likes of a Moon shot program to conquer cancer. In response, Mr. Kennedy advocated an even larger research budget and a boost in status for the National Cancer Institute. Nixon signaled that he would support those ideas, as long as Mr. Kennedy's name was not on the bill, a condition Mr. Kennedy accepted, wrote Adam Clymer, a biographer of Mr. Kennedy and former reporter for The New York Times. In December 1971, Nixon signed the cancer bill.
 On May 20, 2008, Mr. Kennedy announced that he himself had cancer. He had had a seizure three days before and been diagnosed with glioblastoma, the most common and most deadly of brain tumors, at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Ten days later, more than a dozen brain cancer experts met to discuss his treatment. 
 Everyone agreed that Mr. Kennedy should have the standard regimen of chemotherapy and radiation. Radiation had been standard since 1978, when a rigorous study showed it could extend survival to 36 weeks. Without radiation, median survival was 14 weeks.
 In 2005, glioblastoma therapy had another advance. Radiation had improved -- it was targeted to the tumor and not directed at the entire head, and patients were living longer, about a year. Then, a rigorous study found that if a drug, temozolomide, was added to radiation, median survival time was 14.6 months. That drug plus radiation became the standard of care. 
 The disagreement about Mr. Kennedy was over surgery. Ordinarily, if a tumor can be removed, it is removed when surgeons take tissue for a biopsy. Of course, Dr. DeAngelis says, even then, there is some tumor left behind. 
 ''It may be microscopic, but we all know it's there,'' she said. 
 Mr. Kennedy's tumor was diffuse, covering a large area, and his doctors at Massachusetts General had not tried to take it out when they removed tissue for biopsy. Some in the conference argued that the senator should have no further surgery. Others said he should. 
 Mr. Kennedy was in the middle of a common medical dilemma -- doctors who disagree. At this point, with no definitive data, most have made up their minds for or against surgery in such cases, Dr. Fine said. In fact, doctors are so set in their opinions on this issue that most would be unwilling to suggest that patients enter a study in which their treatment -- surgery or no surgery -- would be decided at random. 
 ''We've been talking about doing a clinical trial for 20 years,'' Dr. Fine said, but, he added, it probably would be impossible to get patients. ''Since there are no hard data, it becomes an issue of individual physician bias.'' 
 Mr. Kennedy was apparently convinced that surgery might help. He flew to Duke for a three-and-a-half-hour operation on June 3. His doctors said it was ''successful'' but did not define success.
 He was far from the only glioblastoma patient to travel to Duke. Most of the 1,000 new brain tumor patients treated there each year come from distant places, Dr. Friedman said.
 They come, Dr. Friedman said, ''because we give them hope.'' 
 ''If you go to the Internet and do a search on outcomes in glioma, everyone will call it a terminal illness,'' he said, referring to the class of brain tumors that include glioblastomas. ''Your outcome is 'dead on diagnosis.' If you don't have the philosophy that you can win, you have lost before you started.'' 
 Others say there was nothing extraordinary about the treatment Mr. Kennedy got at Duke. 
 ''I believe he received the standard of care,'' said Dr. Raymond Sawaya, chairman of the department of neurosurgery at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center and one who was part of Mr. Kennedy's initial medical conference and argued against the surgery.
 And while care for glioblastoma has steadily improved, experts agree that, as Dr. Mark Gilbert, a professor in the department of neuro-oncology at M. D. Anderson, put it, glioblastoma remains ''a scary, grim disease.''
 Forty years ago, when the war on cancer began, patients had minimal surgery, if any, Dr. Berger said. That was sometimes followed by radiation to the entire brain, which caused ''tremendous cognitive defects within months.'' Some also got a chemotherapy drug like carmustine. But the chemotherapy was not very effective. A paper published in 2003 in the Journal of Clinical Oncology stated that ''the effect of chemotherapy on this disease has been minimal.'' 
 But while chemotherapy did not improve until 2005, surgery and radiation began improving about 20 years ago. The advent of M.R.I.'s meant that surgeons could see exactly where a tumor was and carefully plan operations. And doctors learned to target radiation to small areas. Mr. Kennedy's ability to function, Dr. Berger said, ''would have been very different if he had gotten the standard treatment 30, 40 years ago.''
 Now, most major medical centers offer the same treatment: surgery, if the tumor can be safely removed, chemotherapy, radiation, and a new drug, Avastin. Yet glioma specialists say it is common for patients to travel, often long distances, to get what they hope will be the most aggressive care. 
 ''That is almost part of the American culture as it relates to health care,'' Dr. Berger said. ''We feel empowered to go anywhere we want for the most part.''
 These days, with a focus on controlling health care costs, it might seem that limiting patients' options and restricting treatments that add maybe a few months of life might be a good place to start. But health economists say that would be a terrible idea.
 ''We are all in favor of eliminating waste,'' said Mark Pauly, a professor of health care management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. ''But when it's your life that's on the line, you tend to behave quite differently.''
 ''The economist in me says, If you want to save money, this is probably a good place to take it from,'' Dr. Pauly said. ''The human being in me says, I don't want to do it.''
 Forty Years' War: Articles in this series are examining the struggle to defeat cancer. For previous articles: nytimes.com/health 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Edward M. Kennedy's family watched Thursday as his coffin was carried by an honor guard to a hearse at the Kennedy compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.(POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY STEW MILNE) CHART: An Aggressive Brain Tumor: Glioblastoma is the most common and most deadly of brain tumors, and kills most patients in a little over a year. Standard treatment includes radiation and chemotherapy, which was shown to extend life several months longer than radiation alone in a rigorous 2005 study.(Sources: National Cancer Institute
 New England Journal of Medicine)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (93%); BRAIN CANCER (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); RADIOLOGY (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); MEDICARE (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (93%); RICHARD NIXON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



752 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: The Great Gradualist

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In the days since Ted Kennedy's death, the news programs have shown and re-shown the unforgettable ending of his 1980 Democratic convention speech -- the passage from Tennyson and the beautiful final lines: ''The work goes on, the cause endures, the hope still lives, and the dream shall never die.''
 But if you go back earlier into the heart of that speech, you see how bold Kennedy's agenda really was. His central argument was for a policy of full employment. Government should provide a job for every able-bodied American. His next big goal was what he called ''reindustrialization.'' The computer revolution was just getting under way, but Kennedy called on government to restore the industrial might of America's cities. 
 The third big goal was national health insurance. ''Let us insist on real control over what doctors and hospitals can charge,'' Kennedy cried.
 There were other proposals. He vowed to use ''the full power of government to master increasing prices.'' Kennedy was proposing to fundamentally transform America's political economy. He knew he had lost the nomination by this time, and his liberalism was unbound.
 The speech was radical, and he could have gone back to the Senate, content to luxuriate in his own boldness. He could have excoriated his opponents for their villainy and given speeches about dreams that would never come true.
 But Kennedy became something else. He became a compromiser. He became an incrementalist. 
 Those words have negative connotations. But they shouldn't. Kennedy never abandoned his ambitious ideals, but his ability to forge compromises and champion gradual, incremental change created the legacy everybody is celebrating today: community health centers, the National Cancer Institute, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Meals on Wheels program, the renewal of the Voting Rights Act and the No Child Left Behind Act. The latter law, by the way, has narrowed the black-white achievement gap more than any other recent piece of legislation.
 Kennedy's life yields several important lessons. One is about the nature of political leadership. We have been taught since, well, since the days of Camelot to admire a particular sort of politician: the epic, charismatic Mount Rushmore candidate who sits atop his charger leading transformational change. 
 But the founders of this country designed the Constitution to frustrate that kind of leader. The Constitution diffuses power, requires compromise and encourages incrementalism. The founders created a government that was cautious so that society might be dynamic. 
 Ted Kennedy was raised to prize one set of leadership skills and matured to find that he possessed another. He possessed the skills of the legislator, and if you ask 99 senators who was the best craftsman among them, they all will say Kennedy. He knew how to cut deals. He understood coalitions and other people's motives and needs. 
 I once ran into John McCain after a negotiating session with Kennedy on an immigration bill they had co-sponsored. McCain was exhausted by the arduous and patient way his friend negotiated. In my last interview with Kennedy, I asked about big ideas, and his answers were nothing special. Then I asked about a minor provision in an ancient piece of legislation, and his command of the provision and how it got there was jaw-droppingly impressive. 
 There is a craft to governance, which depends less on academic intelligence than on a contextual awareness of how to bring people together. Kennedy possessed that awareness.
 A second lesson involves the nature of change in America. 
 We in this country have a distinct sort of society. We Americans work longer hours than any other people on earth. We switch jobs much more frequently than Western Europeans or the Japanese. We have high marriage rates and high divorce rates. We move more, volunteer more and murder each other more. 
 Out of this dynamic but sometimes merciless culture, a distinct style of American capitalism has emerged. The American economy is flexible and productive. America's G.D.P. per capita is nearly 50 percent higher than France's. But the American system is also unforgiving. It produces its share of insecurity and misery. 
 This culture, this spirit, this system is not perfect, but it is our own. American voters welcome politicians who propose reforms that smooth the rough edges of the system. They do not welcome politicians and proposals that seek to contradict it. They do not welcome proposals that centralize power and substantially reduce individual choice. They resist proposals that put security above mobility and individual responsibility.
 In 1980, Kennedy proposed an agenda that jarred with the traditions of American governance. In the decades since, a constrained Kennedy and a string of Republican co-sponsors produced reforms in keeping with it. The benefits are there for all to see. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); LIBERALISM (71%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); CANCER (68%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); ELECTION LAW (67%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (62%); MEALS ON WHEELS (62%); EDUCATION LAW (62%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (50%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (50%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



753 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Despite Church's Push on Issue, Some Bishops Assail Health Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has been lobbying for three decades for the federal government to provide universal health insurance, especially for the poor. Now, as President Obama tries to rally Roman Catholics and other religious voters around his proposals to do just that, a growing number of bishops are speaking out against it.
 As recently as July, the bishops' conference had largely embraced the president's goals, although with the caveat that any health care overhaul avoid new federal financing of abortions. But in the last two weeks some leaders of the conference, like Cardinal Justin Rigali, have concluded that Democrats' efforts to carve out abortion coverage are so inadequate that lawmakers should block the entire effort. 
 Others, echoing the popular alarms about ''rationing,'' contend that the proposals could put a premium on efficacy that could penalize the chronically ill.
 ''No health care reform is better than the wrong sort of health care reform,'' Bishop R. Walker Nickless of Sioux City, Iowa, declared in a recent pastoral letter, urging the faithful to call their members of Congress.
 In a diocesan newspaper column this week, Archbishop Charles J. Chaput of Denver agreed, saying the proposal was ''not only imprudent; it's also dangerous.'' 
 The bishops' opposition -- published in diocesan newspapers, disseminated online by conservative activists, and reported in a Roman Catholic newspaper to be distributed this weekend at churches around the country -- is another setback for Mr. Obama's health care efforts. His administration has been counting on the support of Catholic leaders to help rally believers behind his health care plan. Just last week, he held a conference call with 140,000 religious voters to appeal to what he called their ''moral convictions.'' 
 The bishops' backlash reflects a struggle within the church over how heavily to weigh opposition to abortion against concerns about social justice.
 ''It is the great tension in Catholic thought right now,'' said M. Cathleen Kaveny, a professor of law and theology at Notre Dame.
 The same question, Professor Kaveny said, set off the debates over whether conscientious Catholics could vote for Mr. Obama despite his support for abortion rights, whether he should be invited to speak at Notre Dame, or whether Catholic politicians who support abortion rights, like Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., should present themselves for Communion. 
 Mr. Obama has said the health care overhaul should preserve the current policy that federal money not pay for elective abortions, and congressional Democrats say they are trying to do that. House health care legislation would allow the secretary of Health and Human Services to decide whether a proposed government insurance program would cover abortions. But any health insurance plan that does cover abortion -- whether government-run or private -- would be required to segregate its government subsidies from its patients' premium payments so that no taxpayer money would pay for the procedure. And all patients would have the choice of plans that do and do not cover it.
 House Democrats say many states similarly segregate federal money when they cover abortion under Medicaid. But abortion opponents say they take as a model the federal employees benefits program, which excludes health plans that cover abortion. 
 In an Aug. 11 letter to Congress, Cardinal Rigali of Philadelphia, head of the bishops' anti-abortion efforts called the proposed division of funds ''an illusion,'' arguing that taxpayers would still indirectly help cover abortion. He urged lawmakers to block the current House legislation from coming up for a vote unless it can be amended to expressly prohibit financing for the procedure.
 In his conference call with religious voters last week, Mr. Obama denied that his plan would mean government financing for abortions, calling such assertions ''fabrications that have been put out there in order to discourage people from meeting what I consider to be a core ethical and moral obligation.''
 Now, a prominent Catholic newspaper, Our Sunday Visitor, is declaring that the president was wrong, citing Cardinal Rigali's letter about the House bill. 
 ''U.S. Bishops, fact-checkers contradict Obama's health claims on abortion,'' declares the headline in the issue of the paper that will be distributed in many churches this weekend. 
 Liberal Catholic groups argued that most bishops still strongly supported the broader goals of the health care proposals. ''There are certainly some strident voices out there that want to see health care reform abandoned on the back of this issue,'' said Victoria Kovari, acting director of the liberal Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good, ''but I don't think that is where the bishops are.'' 
 As recently as July 17, a letter to Mr. Obama and Congress from Bishop William F. Murphy, chairman of the bishops' domestic justice, appeared eager to back the Democrats' effort.
 Bishop Murphy of Rockville Centre, N.Y., noted that the ''we strongly oppose inclusion of abortion as part of a national health care benefit.'' But he emphasized the priority the church placed on coverage for the poor, calling health care ''not a privilege but a right.''
 ''Health care is not just another issue for the Church or for a healthy society,'' he wrote. ''It is a fundamental issue of human life and dignity.'' 
 On its Web site this summer, the bishops' conference published a commentary by the Rev. Douglas Clark of Savannah, Ga., arguing that the country now rationed ''health care on the basis of wealth.'' Father Clark cited an encyclical last month from Pope Benedict XVI about the evils of global economic inequality.
 Catholic Charities and the Catholic Health Association endorsed the president's plan without reservation.
 But as the focus has shifted to the health care overhaul's ramifications for abortion provisions, bishops who oppose it on many grounds have grown more vocal.
 ''The Catholic Church does not teach that government should directly provide health care,'' Bishop Nickless of Sioux City wrote, adding, ''Any legislation that undermines the vitality of the private sector is suspect.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about an increasing number of bishops who are speaking out against President Obama's health care plans overstated the support of Catholic Charities and the Catholic Health Association for the president's plans. While both organizations have supported his overall approach, they have also said they would oppose any legislation that used federal funds to pay for elective abortions or required health care workers to participate in abortions over their objections. (The president has said he agrees with both principles.) The two organizations have not endorsed his proposals ''without reservation.''
An article on Friday about Catholic bishops' criticism of the push to overhaul the health care system this year quoted incompletely from an article that Archbishop Charles J. Chaput wrote on the subject. He said: ''Fast-tracking a flawed, complex effort this fall, in the face of so many growing and serious concerns, is bad policy. It's not only imprudent; it's also dangerous.'' He did not say the legislation itself was imprudent and dangerous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ABORTION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009



754 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Leaders Criticize Colombia Over U.S. Military Pact

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and SIMON ROMERO; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Rio de Janeiro, and Simon Romero from Caracas, Venezuela.

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
Left-leaning South American leaders criticized Colombia on Friday for agreeing to allow the United States to increase its military presence on Colombian bases.
 At a meeting in Bariloche, Argentina, leaders from Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia made clear their vehement opposition to the decision by President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia to expand cooperation with the United States to counteract narcotics trafficking and violence by insurgents. 
 President Rafael Correa of Ecuador and President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela demanded that Mr. Uribe give the group that was gathered, known as the Union of South American Nations, copies of the signed agreement with the United States. Mr. Correa argued that the accord put the region's stability at risk. 
 ''You are not going to be able to control the Americans,'' Mr. Correa said. In response, Mr. Uribe insisted at the meeting, which was televised, that Colombia would not cede its sovereignty or even a ''millimeter'' of its territory to the United States. He said that the military bases would remain under Colombian control and that American soldiers would work only to combat drug trafficking and domestic terrorism. 
 He also told the leaders that a copy of the 20-point accord with the United States was available on the Internet. Despite the heated speeches, the only consensus the presidents reached at the meeting was to support a document that, without referring to the accord, rejects foreign military threats to the sovereignty of the group's 12 member nations. 
 At the end of the session, President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, who leads the region's rising economic and political power, chastised his colleagues for speaking too much and complained about the rather vague outcome. ''When the meeting seemed to have finished,'' he said, ''it turns out we're discussing everything again.'' 
 In defending the agreement, Colombia and the United States have said that it simply expands their existing cooperation. American antidrug surveillance flights would rise sharply in Colombia, but American personnel would not be allowed to take part in combat operations in the country.
 American and Colombian officials have also said that the accord will not raise the maximum level of American soldiers beyond the 800 already permitted. About 250 American military personnel are currently in Colombia.
 The agreement ''does not allow the transit of troops or warships because our Constitution prohibits it,'' Mr. Uribe said. ''This is an arrangement for tactical intelligence and strategy.'' 
 Mr. Correa, with support from Mr. da Silva and President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina, suggested meeting with President Obama to discuss the accord. Mr. Uribe contended that the United Nations was a more appropriate forum. 
 The United States, which is not a member of the regional association, did not send an observer. ''We and the Colombians have been clear about the nature of the bilateral agreement,'' Charles Luoma-Overstreet, a State Department spokesman, said in an e-mail message. ''We will continue to reach out to our hemispheric neighbors to explain the agreement.''
 Mr. Chavez had previously described the accord as a step toward war and had said it involved American designs on Venezuelan oil. He has been threatening to break off diplomatic relations with Colombia. 
 President Alan Garcia of Peru, who has warm relations with the United States, took a shot at Mr. Chavez, noting Venezuela's continued willingness to export oil to the United States. 
 ''Man, why are they going to dominate the petroleum if you already sell it all to the United States?'' Mr. Garcia said. The remark drew laughter, though not from Mr. Chavez. 
 Some countries, including Brazil and Chile, offered a less polarized assessment of the agreement. While some presidents said that they, too, had reservations about the presence of foreign soldiers on the continent, they also said Colombia's neighbors should respect its sovereignty. 
 In response to criticism that the accord represented the continuation of American imperialism in the region, Mr. Uribe said the American soldiers were needed to help resolve Colombia's four-decade war against guerrillas who have financing from the lucrative cocaine trade. About 90 percent of the cocaine produced in Colombia is smuggled into the United States, despite more than $6 billion of American security aid to Colombia over the last decade to combat insurgents and trafficking. 
 Mr. Uribe insisted that the agreement would have no effect on Colombia's neighbors. He acknowledged that relations with Venezuela, Colombia's second-largest trading partner, had become difficult and asked Mr. Chavez to refrain from threatening to use Venezuela's newly acquired arsenal of Russian weapons and aircraft, including Sukhoi fighter jets, against Colombia. 
 ''On various occasions Mr. Chavez has said that at any moment he'd turn on his Sukhois and in a few minutes they are in Colombia,'' Mr. Uribe said. 
 Mr. Chavez, for his part, spoke of his deep mistrust of Mr. Uribe and of destabilization plots that he said originated in Colombia; he was referring to about 300 Colombians who were arrested in Caracas and described as paramilitary combatants. Mr. Chavez said the men were planning a coup against him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (57%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (97%); ECUADOR (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); BOLIVIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



755 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Intel, Upgrading Forecast, Says Chip Demand Is Rising

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Intel Corporation raised its third-quarter revenue forecast above Wall Street's expectations on Friday, citing strong demand for its chips and giving another signal that business is improving for one of the world's biggest technology companies. 
 The company, the leading maker of computer microprocessors, said it expected sales of $8.8 billion to $9.2 billion, up from $8.1 billion to $8.9 billion it forecast on July 14.
 Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected $8.55 billion in revenue before Friday.
 Intel also said it expected the quarter's gross profit margin to be in the upper half of the range it previously forecast.
 Intel signaled in July that its business was on the mend after a difficult downturn and the personal computer industry's worst stretch since 2001. The company's second-quarter sales were well above Wall Street's expectations, and its guidance for the current quarter was better than analysts were predicting at the time.
 ''Intel was clearly being more conservative than they needed to be,'' said Doug Freedman, an analyst at Broadpoint AmTech, of the company's earlier outlook.
 Although Intel said Friday that demand for its products was strong, the implications for the struggling personal computer business were unclear.
 Intel's sales exceeded expectations in the last quarter partly because PC makers needed to restock their chip inventories after letting them run lower than normal to save money.
 Dell, the world's No. 2 PC maker, said Thursday as it reported quarterly earnings that while consumers were showing more signs of coming back to stores to buy PCs, corporations were still holding off. Dell said it might not see a significant turnaround in tech spending by businesses until next year.
 By then, many companies will need to begin replacing older PCs that they've been hanging on to for longer than usual, and will have a new version of Windows available. ''There are a lot of moving pieces in the PC industry as we prepare for a new operating system from Microsoft,'' Mr. Freedman said.
 Still, he said Intel's improved forecast was a clear sign that consumer spending was getting better, and might be among the ''very first signs of a little bit of recovery'' in corporate spending.
 Stock in Intel, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., rose 78 cents, or 4 percent, to $20.25 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



756 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING ECONOMIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Trade Deficit Swells To a Record

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Falling exports to the United States caused Canada's current-account deficit to swell in the second quarter to a record high of 11.2 billion Canadian dollars ($10.4 billion), cementing expectations that the economy contracted in the quarter. Statistics Canada reported the third consecutive quarterly deficit after a decade of surpluses. The deficit is equivalent to about 3 percent of gross domestic product, the biggest chunk since the 1940s. In a striking sign of the impact of recession and a strong Canadian dollar, the quarter was the first time since 1976 that Canada imported more goods than it exported, resulting in a deficit in goods trade of 1.71 billion Canadian dollars. 
 Canada's exports of industrial goods, machinery and energy products led the downturn in trade in the second quarter. The country's trade surplus with the United States narrowed by 3.2 billion Canadian dollars in the quarter for a total decline of 17.6 billion Canadian dollars in the last three quarters. Overall imports fell 6.8 billion Canadian dollars in the quarter, largely because of the 8.5 percent appreciation of the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar.
 The deficit in services thinned slightly in the second quarter to 5.44 billion Canadian dollars, while the deficit in investment income grew to 3.43 billion Canadian dollars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); STATISTICS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



757 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Markets Are Mixed in Tepid Trading

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Shares were mixed on Friday after a weak consumer sentiment report offset positive news from bellwether technology companies like Dell and Intel.
 Support from the companies, however, let the Nasdaq composite index eke out a tiny gain. 
 All three major indexes still posted their second weekly advance, although the gains were relatively modest.
 With shares on Wall Street up about 50 percent from multiyear lows in March, investors are concerned that the rally may have run its course, and that with many market players taking last-minute vacations, there are not enough buyers to push stocks up further.
 Consumer sentiment in August slid to a four-month low on worries about high unemployment and personal finances, a Reuters and University of Michigan survey showed, also curbing the market's appetite for risk.
 ''Expectations are higher and any kind of data that doesn't exceed forecasts with rosy numbers can't move the market,'' said Alan Lancz, president of Alan B. Lancz & Associates in Toledo, Ohio.
 ''I think the absence of buyers is triggering traders to sell into the weekend,'' Mr. Lancz said. ''Next week is basically the last week of the summer, and with more buyers away, there would be fewer catalysts of bull momentum.''
 Intel, the chip maker, led the Nasdaq's major gainers and helped the index nudge back into positive territory in late afternoon trading.
 Shares of Intel climbed 4 percent, or 78 cents, to $20.25, after it raised its third-quarter revenue outlook on stronger-than-expected demand for its microprocessors and chipsets.
 Dell rose 1.76 percent, or 28 cents, to $15.93, and Marvell Technology gained 5 percent, or 73 cents, to $15.36, after both companies reported second-quarter earnings late Thursday that beat expectations.
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 36.43 points, or 0.38 percent, to 9,544.20. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.05 points, or 0.20 percent, to 1,028.93.
 But the Nasdaq inched up 1.04 points, or 0.05 percent, to 2,028.77.
 For the week, the Dow advanced 0.4 percent, while the S.& P. 500 gained 0.3 percent and the Nasdaq rose 0.4 percent.
 So far in 2009, the Dow industrial index is up 8.75 percent, the S.& P. 500 has increased 13.9 percent, and the Nasdaq composite has gained 28.6 percent. 
 The losses were broad-based, with health care stocks helping to lead the declines. The drug company Merck was down 1.67 percent, or 55 cents, to $32.32. 
 Among the blue-chip Dow industrials, McDonald's ranked among the top losers, falling 1 percent, or 59 cents, to $56.07.
 A bright spot was provided by the luxury jeweler Tiffany, which surged 11.3 percent, or $3.82, to $37.57, after it reported strong second-quarter results and lifted its outlook.
 Troubled financials continued to dominate trading. Shares of the two largest home financing companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, gained sharply, extending a trend seen earlier this week. Freddie Mac was up 7.1 percent, or 16 cents, to $2.40, and Fannie Mae gained 6.3 percent, or 12 cents, to $2.04.
 The bailed-out insurer American International Group rose 5 percent, or $2.39, to $50.23, up 53 percent for the week.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); RANKINGS (69%); FINE JEWELRY MFG (65%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); ALAN B LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC (69%); MERCK & CO INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); MRK (PAR) (61%); MRK (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



758 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Boathouse Operator to Run Tavern on the Green, and Changes Are Planned

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
It could now be called Boathouse on the Green.
 New York City's parks department announced on Friday that Tavern on the Green, the landmark restaurant in Central Park, will have a new operator: Dean J. Poll, who runs the Central Park Boathouse. 
 Mr. Poll has taken the franchise from the current operator, the family of the restaurateur Warner LeRoy, who died in 2001. The family's had sought to maintain its control of the operating license, which expires on Dec. 31. 
 Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner, said the selection of a new operator for the restaurant was ''an important choice, given its history and its singular location,'' adding that ''opportunities like this come along every 20 or 25 years.'' 
 The term of the new license is for 20 years, and Mr. Poll, 52, will make a $25 million capital investment in the restaurant -- which is near 67th Street and Central Park West -- refurbishing the heating and ventilation systems, the kitchens and the plumbing. 
 The renovations will be conducted in phases, so the restaurant will remain open. Mr. Poll's proposal calls for an outdoor cafe and bike racks. New landscape designs will open up views of the Sheep Meadow, and the Crystal Room, often used for weddings, will be reconceived as a conservatory-style dining space. 
 Mr. Poll said his plan would create two entrances, one for banquets and another for restaurant customers and those heading to a new bar to be established in the restaurant's Chestnut Room. ''We want to make it more available to New Yorkers and to casual diners,'' he said. 
 Shelley Clark, a LeRoy family spokeswoman, congratulated Mr. Poll, adding: ''We are saddened and disappointed by the decision. It has been an honor to operate Tavern on the Green for 35 years. Our deepest gratitude goes to our diners, friends and wonderful staff for their support.''
 The Tavern on the Green brand is owned by the LeRoy family, and Mr. Poll said he would ''not speculate about what we're going to do about the name.'' Ms. Clark declined to comment about any sale of the name to Mr. Poll. 
 For years, Tavern on the Green, which opened in 1934 and has gone through several incarnations, was one of the highest-grossing independently owned restaurants in the United States. But its fortunes have declined in the recession. 
 Under the current license, the LeRoy family was required to pay 3.5 percent of the restaurant's gross receipts to the city, though more recent parks department licenses have required restaurant operators to pay more than 10 percent. Mr. Poll's Boathouse pays 16.5 percent.
 Mr. Benepe would not confirm the specifics of the new deal. But Mr. Poll said there was a tentative agreement for the payments to begin at 5 percent ''and go up over time.'' He declined to give more details. A contract between the city and Mr. Poll has yet to be hammered out. 
 ''We think that it can be a lucrative business operation,'' Mr. Poll said, adding that his ownership of a second Central Park restaurant would not cannibalize his Boathouse operation because ''we can build business for both of them through cross-marketing.'' Mr. Poll, who previously managed restaurants on Long Island with his family, won the Boathouse license eight years ago. 
 In May, three companies submitted $50,000 certified checks to the parks department to compete for Tavern's operating license. Aside from the LeRoy family and Mr. Poll, Seth Greenberg, owner of Capitale and Espace, both in Manhattan, put in a proposal. On Friday, he said, ''I'm extremely disappointed.''
 A Who's Who of restaurateurs declined to submit proposals after examining the property. Among them were the caterer Glorious Food, David Liederman, Danny Meyer and Alan N. Stillman, as well as Donald Trump and the Cipriani organization.
 Mr. Poll did not comment about future negotiations with the restaurant's staff. Tavern -- which has 500 employees during the Christmas season and the summer and about 250 at other times -- has a contract with the New York Hotel Trades Council. Peter Ward, the council's president, said the restaurant's work force was ''an essential ingredient in its success.''
 The parks department said in its request for proposals that ''the incoming concessionaire shall retain existing employees by seniority within each job classification.'' 
 Mr. Ward said that Mr. Poll must ''ensure that we do not have a repeat of past labor disputes at Tavern on the Green if the city's interests are to be met.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); HVAC SYSTEMS (67%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



759 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: For Common Male Problem, Hope Beyond a Pill

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
IF you watch enough television, you'd think that treating erectile dysfunction was as effortless as popping a pill and then whirling your partner around the living room in a romantic dance. Correcting erectile dysfunction, alas, is not so simple -- and it can be rather costly. One Viagra pill, for example, the most common way to treat erection problems, costs about $15.
 Insurers can be chary of reimbursements. And despite the fact that E.D., as the dysfunction is known, becomes increasingly common after men reach 65, Medicare Part D does not cover drugs for it.
 An estimated 30 million men in this country experience erectile dysfunction. Nearly a third of men in their 50s experience E.D., whereas more than half of those in their 60s have the problem. 
 If you're hoping to have Viagra-aided sex twice a week, your bill for the entire year could run around $1,500. If you're fortunate enough to have insurance that covers the medications, your co-pay will be on the high side, around $40 for a one-month supply of six to eight pills -- bringing your annual bill to a more manageable $500 or so. There are no generic versions of E.D. meds yet. 
 Even among the name-brand drugs, which also include Cialis and Levitra, the medications do not work for about half of the men with E.D., says Dr. Ajay Nehra, professor of urology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He is also president of the Sexual Medicine Society, an association of health care professionals. 
 And yet, as it turns out there are other treatments for E.D. And some of them are more cost-effective than the brand-name pills advertised on television.
 ''There is not a man out there that cannot be helped in some way with his E.D. -- even if money is an issue,'' says Dr. Andrew McCullough, an associate professor of urology and director of Male Sexual Health and Fertility at the Langone Medical Center at New York University.
 The first step is to see a doctor who specializes in E.D. (usually a urologist) and have your overall health checked out. If your primary care physician can't make a recommendation, contact the Sexual Medicine Society and ask for a referral. 
 In many of cases, E.D. is the sign of an underlying disorder like diabetes or hypertension. In fact, in younger men, erection problems are often the first symptom of cardiovascular disease.
 ''Erectile problems may show up about three years before a cardiovascular event such as a heart attack or stroke,'' says Dr. Ira Sharlip, clinical professor of urology at the University of California, San Francisco.
 That's because plaque will start to clog the small arteries in the penis before the wider coronary arteries. Your doctor will also try to determine whether your E.D. is the result of a psychological issue, in which case he will refer you to a therapist. Depending on your policy, your insurer may cover a set number of visits. (One way for you to check on your own whether your issue may be psychological or physical is try the postage stamp test, also known as nocturnal penile tumescence test.)
 By adopting healthier habits, you may be able to improve your overall well-being and restore your erectile function. 
 ''There is increasing evidence that we can reverse erectile dysfunction with lifestyle changes,'' says Dr. Drogo K. Montague, director of the Center for Genitourinary Reconstruction in the Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute at Cleveland Clinic. 
 In a recent study of men with E.D., or at risk for developing it, researchers in Italy found that the men could improve their erections by losing weight, improving their diet and exercising more frequently. After two years of significant lifestyle changes, 58 percent of the men had normal erectile function, according to the study, which was published in The Journal of Sexual Medicine in January. 
 But lifestyle changes, while basically free, can be difficult to make and may take months to take effect. In the meantime, your doctor will probably prescribe a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, also called a PDE-5 inhibitor, like Viagra, Cialis or Levitra. These drugs enhance the effects of nitric oxide, a chemical that helps to increase blood flow in the penis. The three drugs work in the same way, but differ in how quickly they take effect and how long they last. If the PDE-5 drugs don't work for you, don't give up quickly, says Dr. McCullough, who theorizes that ''in over 40 percent of drug failures the problem is with the user, not the drug.'' Dr. McCullough adds, ''it's important to take these medications as directed, like on a totally empty stomach, rather than a full one, and not less than 60 minutes before sex.''
 If the pills don't work for you, you might want to try self-administered injections of alprostadil, a drug that helps blood vessels expand and facilitates erections. Granted, this may sound onerous, but the shot, which is sold under the brand names Edex and Caverject, is done with a fine needle, feels no worse than a pinprick and produces an erection that can last up to four hours, according to doctors who recommend it. 
 The shots cost about $35 per injection and are covered by most insurers, but not by Medicare. 
 But ask your doctor about an injection that's a cocktail of generic forms of alprostadil, papaverine and phentolamine. 
 Although this generic combination is not F.D.A.-approved as an E.D. treatment, doctors are legally free to administer it -- and both Dr. Sharlip and Dr. McCullough recommend it. 
 ''The generic injections clearly work the best,'' Dr. Sharlip said, ''and are usually less expensive.'' 
 Another cost-effective option is a vacuum erection device or penis pump. It works like this: you place a tube on the penis and then pump the air out of the tube, which pulls blood into the penis. When the penis is erect, you then put a snug ring around the base to maintain the erection, which lasts long enough to have sex. 
 The cost for the device, which requires a prescription, can run from $300 to $600, but most insurers and Medicare will cover part of the cost and the device should last for years. Even if you spend $300 out of pocket and use the device once a week, you'll be spending much less per year than on pills or injections. You can also buy a nonprescription pump online (even Amazon carries some) for as little as $30, Dr. McCullough said.
 Finally, if all other treatments fail, you could consider getting penile implants, an effective and permanent solution for chronic E.D. The most common type of implant works through inflation: two cylinders are placed inside the penis and a fluid-filled reservoir is implanted under the abdominal wall or groin muscles; a pump and a deflation valve are placed inside the scrotum. To create an erection, you pump fluid from the reservoir into the cylinders. To deflate the penis, you press the release valve.
 Most insurers and Medicare cover the surgery, so your out-of-pocket costs will be minimal. This might be the most cost-effective strategy of all since, according to Dr. Nehra, 80 percent of implants last 10 years. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Andrew McCullough says, ''There is not a man out there that cannot be helped in some way with his E.D.''(B1)
 Dr. Andrew McCullough says ''it's important to take these medications as directed, like on a totally empty stomach.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (93%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); MEN (89%); UROLOGY (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); INSURANCE (71%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (71%); MEDICARE (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); HYPERTENSION (67%); STROKES (64%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); HEART DISEASE (63%); DIABETES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (72%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



760 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Swine Flu for College Teams

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
One by one, Tulane's football players returned from a morning practice last week complaining of similar symptoms: sore throat, fever, fatigue. By the end of the day, Dr. Greg Stewart, a director of Tulane's sports medicine program, said 18 players had contracted the flu. And it would only get worse.
 By the end of Friday, eight days later, 31 football players and 6 members of the volleyball team were believed to have come down with swine flu. Tulane canceled the football team's Fan Day last weekend and kept the volleyball team home from its season opener in Nebraska. 
 ''We've never had anything like this,'' Stewart said.
 As public health officials brace for the start of the academic year and an expected resurgence of swine flu, college locker rooms are turning out to be an early proving ground. Just as the football season is getting under way, Duke, Texas Christian and Alabama have reported cases of swine flu or of players experiencing flulike symptoms.
 Health experts say college athletes are perfect candidates for the swine flu, the virus known as H1N1, which in June was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization and which has infected more than one million Americans. 
 The strain tends to spread most quickly among young adults, who have not built an immunity to flu strains. Because the athletes share dorm rooms, cafeterias and sometimes unsanitary locker rooms, ''it's kind of an ideal situation for the flu,'' said Artealia Gilliard, a spokeswoman for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Although the virus spreads quickly among the young, Gilliard said, they typically contract mild cases and tend to get better without treatment. 
 Chuck Wynne, a spokesman for the N.C.A.A., said he was not aware of any games or tournaments -- outside of Tulane -- that had been canceled because of a flu outbreak. Classes have not yet begun at many universities, and athletic seasons are just beginning. The responsibility for deciding whether to cancel games rests mainly with conferences or individual colleges, Wynne said.
 At Tulane, Stewart said the flu cases had been relatively mild, with students being ill for no more than two days. Two of the students tested positive for Type A influenza, which includes the H1N1 virus. Because the cases occurred outside the typical flu season and spread quickly, Stewart said officials were assuming that the athletes contracted swine flu.
 At Duke, the flu was diagnosed in about 15 players. A handful tested positive for the H1N1 virus, said Dr. Jeffrey Bytomski, the head medical team physician for Duke sports. Although Duke officials said they were not aware of any other athletes who contracted swine flu, about 70 middle school and high school students had the virus after attending camps at the university this summer, said Michael Schoenfeld, a university spokesman.
 At Texas Christian, about five football players reported flulike symptoms, but a spokesman said he did not know whether they were tested for swine flu. A similar situation was reported at Alabama, where a spokesman said either four or five football players had flulike symptoms, although all but one had since returned to practice. Classes have begun at both colleges and each has reported cases of swine flu among the student body.
 Charlie Thompson, the head athletic trainer at Princeton, said he had closely followed the news about swine flu among college athletes. 
 ''Everybody's on high alert,'' he said. Thompson, who is also the chairman of the National Athletic Trainers' Association's college and university athletic trainers committee, said he had advised athletes not to share towels, to cover their mouths when they coughed, and to speak up if they felt ill. With some teams well into their preseason practices, athletes are likely to be physically and mentally stressed, making them more susceptible to illness, he said.
 ''Athletes and this population, they think they're indestructible, so you have to teach them a little bit on how to keep themselves safe,'' Thompson said. 
 If flu outbreaks continue, the virus could affect schedules and derail the seasons of unlucky teams, said Jay Christensen, the proprietor of The Wiz of Odds blog, a college football Web site. 
 If teams lose an important game because a star player is ill, he said, it ''could have somewhat of an economic impact on some of these athletic programs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: H1N1 INFLUENZA (94%); INFLUENZA (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS MEDICINE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (88%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISEASE REPORTING (77%); EPIDEMICS (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); TOURNAMENTS (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



761 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER THRIFT IN U.S. MAY LAST AFTER RECESSION

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Even as evidence mounts that the Great Recession has finally released its chokehold on the American economy, experts worry that the recovery may be weak, stymied by consumers' reluctance to spend.
 Given that consumer spending has in recent years accounted for 70 percent of the nation's economic activity, a marginal shrinking could significantly depress demand for goods and services, discouraging businesses from hiring more workers.
 Millions of Americans spent years tapping credit cards, stock portfolios and once-rising home values to spend in excess of their incomes and now lack the wherewithal to carry on. Those who still have the means feel pressure to conserve, fearful about layoffs, the stock market and real estate prices.
 ''We're at an inflection point with respect to the American consumer,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy .com, who correctly forecast a dip in spending heading into the recession, and who provided data supporting sustained weakness. 
 ''Lower-income households can't borrow, and higher-income households no longer feel wealthy,'' Mr. Zandi added. ''There's still a lot of debt out there. It throws a pall over the potential for a strong recovery. The economy is going to struggle.''
 In recent weeks, spending has risen slightly because of exuberant car buying, fueled by the cash-for-clunkers program. On Friday, the Commerce Department said spending rose 0.2 percent in July from the previous month. But most economists see this activity as short-lived, pointing out that incomes did not rise. Some suggest the recession has endured so long and spread pain so broadly that it has seeped into the culture, downgrading expectations, clouding assumptions about the future and eroding the impulse to buy.
 The Great Depression imbued American life with an enduring spirit of thrift. The current recession has perhaps proven wrenching enough to alter consumer tastes, putting value in vogue.
 ''It's simply less fun pulling up to the stoplight in a Hummer than it used to be,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the research and trading firm ITG. ''It's a change in norms.''
 Here in Austin, a laid-back city on the banks of the Colorado River, change is palpable. 
 A decade ago, Heather Nelson gained a lucrative job in telecommunications and celebrated by buying a new Ford sport utility vehicle with leather seats and an expensive stereo system. Today, Ms. Nelson, 38, again has designs on a new vehicle, but this time she plans to buy a Toyota Prius, the fuel-efficient hybrid.
 In December, Ms. Nelson was laid off from her six-figure job as a patent attorney at a local software firm. Self-assured, she exudes confidence she will land another high-paying position. 
 But even if her spending power is restored, Ms. Nelson says her inclination to buy has been permanently diminished. Through nine months of joblessness, she has learned to forgo the impulse buys that used to provide momentary pleasure -- $4 lattes at Starbucks, lip gloss, mints. She has found she can survive without the pedicures and chocolate martinis that once filled regular evenings at the spa. Before punishing heat and drought turned much of central Texas brown, she subsisted primarily on vegetables harvested from her plot at a community garden, where only one oasis of flowers remains.
 Once intent on buying a home, Ms. Nelson now feels security in remaining a renter, steering clear of the shark-infested waters of the mortgage industry.
 ''I'm having to shift my dreams to accommodate the new realities,'' she said. ''Now, I have more of a bunker mentality. If you get hit hard enough, it lasts. This impact is going to last.''
 For years, Americans have tapped stock portfolios and borrowed against homes to fill wardrobes with clothes, garages with cars and living rooms with furniture and electronics. But stock markets have proven volatile. Home values are sharply lower. Banks remain reluctant to lend in the aftermath of a global financial crisis. 
 Households must increasingly depend upon paychecks to finance spending, a reality that seems likely to curb consumption: Unemployment stands at 9.4 percent and is expected to climb higher. Working hours have been slashed even for those with jobs. 
 Economists subscribe to a so-called wealth effect: as households amass wealth, they tend to expand their spending over the following year, typically by 3 to 5 percent of the increase.
 Between 2003 and 2007 -- prime years of the housing boom -- the net worth of an American household expanded to about $540,000, from about $400,000, according to an analysis of federal data by Moody's Economy.com. 
 Now, the wealth effect is working in reverse: by the first three months of this year, household net worth had dropped to $421,000.
 ''Not only have people lost money, but they don't expect as much appreciation in the money they have, and that should affect consumption,'' said Andrew Tilton, an economist at Goldman Sachs. ''This is a cultural shift going on. People will save more.''
 As recently as the middle of 2007, Americans saved less than 2 percent of their income, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In recent months, the rate has exceeded 4 percent.
 Austin has fared better than most cities during the recession. Increased government payrolls enabled by the state's energy wealth have largely compensated for layoffs in construction and technology. Local unemployment reached 7.1 percent in June -- well below the national average. Housing prices have mostly held. Yet even people with high incomes appear reluctant to spend.
 ''The only time you do a lot of business is when you throw a sale,'' said Pat Bennett, a salesman at a Macy's in north Austin. ''You see very little impulse buying. They come in saying, 'I need a pair of underwear,' and they get it and leave. You don't really see them saying, 'Oh, I love the way that shirt looks, and I'm just going to get it.' ''
 Mr. Bennett attributes frugality to a general uneasiness about the future.
 ''Our parents had the Depression,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''This is like a mini-shock for the baby boomers after the go-go years.''
 At a mall devoted to home furnishings, many storefronts were vacant, and survivors were draped in the banners of desperation: ''Inventory Clearance,'' ''50% Off,'' ''It's All On Sale.''
 But at the Natural Gardener -- a lush assemblage of demonstration plots that sells seeds, plants and tools for organic gardening -- business has never been better. 
 Sales of vegetable plants swelled fivefold in March over past years. The company added a public address system and bleachers to accommodate hordes showing up for vegetable-growing classes.
 Part of the embrace of gardening stems from concerns about the environment and food safety, says the company's president, John Dromgoole. Momentum also reflects desire to save on food costs. 
 ''People are very interested in shoring up against losing their jobs,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: To save money, Heather Nelson, a lawyer, has harvested vegetables from her plot at a community garden in Austin, Tex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) CHART: No Longer Living in an A.T.M. As property values rose during the real estate boom, Americans took out hundreds of billions of dollars a year using home equity lines of credit, ''cash-out'' refinancings and sales. But now people are making more in payments than they are taking out, eliminating a major source of cash for consumer spending. (Source: Moody'sEconomy.com) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (65%); POWER FAILURES (60%); PATENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



762 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Forced to Hire From Within, City Principals Leave Jobs Unfilled

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
Less than two weeks before the start of school, about 1,800 teaching jobs in New York City remain open as principals appear to be resisting orders to fill vacancies with teachers whose previous positions were eliminated.
 Facing steep budget cuts, the Education Department enacted a hiring freeze in the spring, requiring principals with openings to hire teachers who are already on the city's payroll but who have no permanent position, often because their schools were closed for poor performance.
 But many principals prefer new teachers. So in an act of quiet defiance, they are allowing jobs to sit vacant, leading to one of the most difficult hiring seasons in recent history despite the large number of vacancies and the thousands of candidates who could fill them. 
 Teachers who lost their old posts are frustrated about the scarcity of job offers. New teachers who cannot get hired are furious after upending their lives to begin careers they must now delay. And principals are upset that after years of choosing their work force, their options are being drastically limited. 
 ''The picture out there is not pretty,'' said Jemina R. Bernard, who directs the New York office of Teach for America, which recruits recent college graduates to teach in low-performing schools. Fewer than half of the recruits this year have landed jobs in city schools; by this time last year, 90 percent had.
 The openings represent about 2 percent of the city's teaching payroll, and officials expect that some will be filled before Sept. 9, the first day of school. But a number of schools may end up with larger classes or have to temporarily stop offering a subject.
 For years, a teacher whose job was eliminated because of declining enrollment, budget cuts or school closings had the right to ''bump'' a teacher with less seniority out of a job at another school. But in 2005 the city and the teachers' union agreed to give principals the right to choose whom to hire. 
 As Chancellor Joel I. Klein moved aggressively to close poor-performing schools, more teachers found their positions eliminated. And principals tended to hire younger, newer teachers because they were cheaper and did not carry the stigma of having come from a failing school. 
 So many of the older teachers, who were guaranteed full salaries and benefits, wound up in the so-called absent teacher reserve pool, usually working as substitutes. There are now 1,983 teachers in the pool, earning more than $200 million a year in pay and benefits. 
 Mr. Klein has suggested that those who do not find jobs quickly are undesirable, or that they have stopped looking. But now the chancellor, who has given more autonomy to school leaders and encouraged the recruitment of new teachers from nontraditional backgrounds, is trying to coax principals to hire from within.
 ''The economics are that you have to do this,'' Mr. Klein said. ''But I think everybody, starting with me, knows that this is not the ideal in any way, shape or form.'' 
 With the teachers' contract up for renewal this fall, Mr. Klein said he would push for a limit on how long teachers could stay in the reserve pool before they could be laid off. But an arbitration board has rejected such a limit. 
 Michael Mulgrew, the president of the teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers, said that the Education Department had not made a great enough effort to place teachers and that Mr. Klein had unfairly maligned them, making it even harder for them to find jobs. And, Mr. Mulgrew said, principals are reluctant to take on their higher salaries. 
 About a third of the nearly 2,000 teachers who lost their posts in June have found a job this summer. Some new teachers have landed jobs in specialized areas, like special education and the sciences, in which Mr. Klein has made an exception to the hiring freeze. 
 But more than 300 teachers have been in the pool for more than a year, and about 150 for more than two years. To entice principals to hire teachers who have been in the pool the longest, Mr. Klein has offered to pay part of their salaries from his central budget for up to eight years. 
 Several principals -- who did not want their names published for fear of angering the administration or the teachers' union -- said they were circumventing the restrictions by offering new teachers jobs as long-term substitutes or hiring them as specialized teachers but placing them in regular classrooms. Some said they planned to eliminate open positions from their budgets rather than take on teachers they considered undesirable, and others said they were holding out in the hope that Mr. Klein would lift the restrictions. 
 Valerie Hamilton-Roux, 45, who was a reading specialist at Public School 201 in Harlem until it was closed last year, said she had been little more than a ''glorified sub'' since then. In the last several months, she has attended job fairs and sent out more than a hundred resumes to schools, she said. 
 ''I want to work and be useful, not just a placeholder,'' she said. ''Whether I don't say what the principals want to hear or whether they're skeptical because I haven't been in the classroom for a year, I don't know. It's getting harder to not have sleepless nights.'' 
 Krystel Martinez, 27, also cannot find work. She left a job at Sony Music to enter the Teaching Fellows program, which recruits people without classroom experience to teach while earning a master's degree in education. 
 ''Why did they go ahead and bring us if there were no jobs for us to have?'' Ms. Martinez said. ''Some people are losing motivation, but we're all concerned about having a roof over our heads.'' 
 During a job fair on Wednesday in a clubhouse bar at the Mets' stadium, Citi Field, principals sat behind small cocktail tables, with lines of job seekers snaking through the hall. Hundreds of candidates stood in line for a chance at one of two jobs at East Bronx Academy for the Future. The principal, Sarah Scrogin, said she had received very few applications from teachers who had been in the reserve pool for an extended time. And like others, she found several candidates whom she would be happy to hire but cannot because of the freeze.
 ''This should be a time when we are really picky,'' Ms. Scrogin said. ''The last thing you want to do is bring somebody on who you will regret later.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Saturday with an article about 1,800 teaching jobs in New York City that remain unfilled just days before the school year begins -- apparently because principals are resisting orders to fill vacancies from within -- referred incorrectly to Timothy Goettelmann, who was at a job fair at Citi Field. He is a teacher on the hiring committee at a high school in the Bronx, the Holcombe L. Rucker School of Community Research -- not a principal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy Goettelmann, above left, the principal at a high school in the Bronx, with a teacher at a job fair at Citi Field. At left, Emily Smith interviewing for a position. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN MAXON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



763 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Decision to Close Plant Casts Toyota in Unfamiliar Role

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
After years of watching rivals shutter factories and lay off workers while it prospered, Toyota now finds itself in unfamiliar territory as it prepares to close its only unionized American plant. 
 Suddenly, a company whose success is one reason the Detroit automakers have had to cut so many jobs is itself cutting loose members of the United Automobile Workers union.
 California officials say as many as 40,000 jobs could be lost after Toyota closes the plant in Fremont, Calif., where it builds the popular Corolla sedan and a small pickup, the Tacoma. And the U.A.W., which accused Toyota of callously abandoning its workers, criticized it for shifting Corolla production to Canada and Japan after millions of dollars in cash-for-clunkers rebates from the United States government caused sales of that car to surge. 
 ''It has all the ingredients of a real mess,'' said Harley Shaiken, a labor specialist at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 Atsushi Niimi, a Toyota executive vice president whose responsibilities include North America, denied that Toyota had decided to close the plant because its work force was unionized. He said California's high cost of living and labor were a factor, as was its location far from Toyota's suppliers.
 Unlike U.A.W. members at other auto plants, the workers at the Fremont plant have no contract provision that gives them extra benefits after being laid off. Nor can they transfer to another plant, as many senior workers do when a General Motors or Ford Motor Company operation shuts down.
 Though workers would be free to apply at other Toyota plants, the closest of which is more than 1,700 miles away, in San Antonio, ''they will not be prioritized over the applicants from the local community,'' Mr. Niimi told reporters on a conference call.
 He said discussions about any severance or post-layoff benefits would be up to plant management, because it operates as a separate entity from Toyota, known as New United Motor Manufacturing Incorporated, or Nummi. ''Management is ready to negotiate in good faith,'' Mr. Niimi said.
 A spokesman for Nummi declined to comment beyond a statement from its chief executive, Kunihiko Ogura.
 ''We particularly regret the impact that this will have on our valued Nummi team members,'' Mr. Ogura said. ''We are committed to making every effort to ensure the best possible transition for Nummi team members.''
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California said in a statement that his office would help to ensure ''appropriate employee severance, proper environmental remediation and assistance in transforming the site to alternative uses.''
 Nummi opened in 1984 as a joint venture by Toyota and G.M. It gave Toyota its first chance to build cars in the United States, while G.M. sought an education in more efficient manufacturing.
 After filing for bankruptcy protection in June, G.M. said that it would pull out of Nummi, leaving Toyota to decide if it could continue to operate the plant on its own or with a new partner. On Thursday, Toyota said it had concluded that keeping the plant open was not economically viable ''over the mid- to long-term'' without G.M.
 Toyota said production would end in March. The vehicle G.M. built at Nummi, the Pontiac Vibe, was discontinued last week.
 Though G.M.'s withdrawal is what prompted Toyota's review of the plant and decision to close it, G.M. seems to have escaped much of the blame from the U.A.W. and California officials who have been assembling a package of incentives to persuade Toyota to stay in Fremont. U.A.W. leaders reacted angrily to Toyota's announcement but never mentioned G.M.
 ''This gave Toyota the opening to do something they may have been contemplating in any case,'' Professor Shaiken said. He said Toyota might have underestimated the impact of closing the plant.
 ''They're viewing this as a business decision,'' he said. ''And a plant closure in the midst of an economic collapse is also a political decision.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers picketed last week near the New United Motor Manufacturing Incorporated, or Nummi, plant in Fremont, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (69%); COST OF LIVING (51%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); NEW UNITED MOTOR MANUFACTURING INC (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



764 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Movie Buffs Vs. Museum In a Dispute Over Cuts

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Late last month Michael Govan, the director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, announced that the museum's acclaimed 41-year-old weekend film series would end in November ''in order to reconsider the nature, scale and scope'' of the program. One big problem, he added later, was that the series had lost well over $1 million in the last decade, partly because of a lack of donor support.
 On Wednesday the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, Time Warner Cable and Ovation TV announced combined donations of $150,000, enough to keep the program running through next June in the city that is the financial and creative center of the world film industry. Problem solved and crisis averted? Not exactly.
 ''We've had a reprieve, but there are issues involved that are larger than money,'' said Debra Levine, one of the leaders of Save Film at Lacma (as the museum is known), a grass-roots coalition that sprang up in opposition to Mr. Govan's announcement. ''This wheel did not need reinventing. So we need to know whether this means the continuation of the current program that we all treasure, or whether we are going to have another traumatic rupture eight or nine months hence.'' 
 The museum is Los Angeles's largest, and its 600-seat Leo S. Bing Theater, where the program's films are shown, is one of the city's most convenient and comfortable places to see movies. In addition, the program ''emphasizes classic Hollywood movies and foreign cinema, a lot of which plays in New York but can't be seen anywhere else in L.A.,'' said Doug Cummings, another leader of the protest group, which has obtained nearly 4,000 signatures on a petition that it has circulated online.
 In a telephone interview Mr. Govan, a former deputy director of the Guggenheim who came to the Los Angeles museum in 2006 from the Dia Art Foundation, said he was ''grateful that this has touched a nerve'' and added that ''the decision to take a pause on film was never born of the idea to abandon film at Lacma or as an art form.'' What he wanted, and continues to favor, he said, is ''a rejuvenation and a higher ambition'' for the program.
 But Mr. Govan's focus on the film program's financial performance, as reflected in revenues and attendance, which have declined by nearly 50 percent since 2000, and his suggestions that many of the titles shown can be seen elsewhere, has not sat well with movie aficionados. They complain that film is a stepchild at the museum, held to unrealistic standards that are not applied in other departments.
 ''Would Lacma shutter its collection of Etruscan art if not enough people came?'' Kenneth Turan, chief film critic of The Los Angeles Times, asked in a recent article. ''Probably not. Would it consider packing up its European paintings because excellent reproductions are available in books and online, the way DVDs are available in stores? No, that kind of art is considered too central to the museum's mission to be dismissed in such a cavalier manner.''
 Two weeks ago the director Martin Scorsese joined the fray, addressing an open letter to Mr. Govan and the museum board. ''I found it profoundly disheartening to know that a vital outlet for the exhibition of what was once known as 'repertory cinema' has been cut off in L.A. of all places, the center of film production and the land of the movie-making itself,'' he wrote.
 Mr. Scorsese also questioned the museum's stated intention to ''place greater emphasis on artist-created films,'' which he, like many others upset by the changes Mr. Govan has proposed, seemed to interpret as an unwarranted slap at filmmakers. ''To do this would be tantamount to downgrading the worth of cinema,'' Mr. Scorsese wrote. ''Aren't the best films made by artists in the first place?''
 In the interview Mr. Govan acknowledged that his choice of words ''was maybe a little unfortunate'' but said his intentions have been ''misconstrued in the fever'' about the program's future. 
 ''I in no way meant that filmmakers are not artists,'' he said, or to imply that movies with conventional narratives would be replaced by ''weird, esoteric films'' without plots, made by people who are primarily painters or sculptors.
 ''I don't want to retract what I said, but I realize it was poorly phrased,'' Mr. Govan said. But, he added, ''We can't just deal with the classic history of film, which is now slightly codified.''
 Left unanswered is the question of whether Hollywood's studios and big production companies are willing to open their pocketbooks to support the film program, whatever form it takes. Even in flush times, when profits were soaring, their reputation as donors was that they were far less generous than corporations on Wall Street or in Silicon Valley.
 Such complaints were often heard, for example, during fund-raising for two parts of the Performing Arts Center of Los Angeles County, the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion and the Walt Disney Concert Hall. With the economy in a tailspin, DVD sales down sharply and studios struggling to control expenses, those doubts have intensified.
 ''This is a well-documented phenomenon of our town with the arts across the board, not just with Lacma,'' Ms. Levine said. ''We hope that this chapter will perhaps be a turning point for more generous corporate giving. There definitely needs to be stronger support of repertory cinema by the industry itself.''
 As part of an effort to ''connect more to that side of L.A.,'' Mr. Govan said, the museum two months ago named Terry Semel, who had held the top posts at both Warner Brothers and Yahoo, as the new co-chairman of its board, and Brian Grazer, a prominent Hollywood producer, as a trustee. 
 Mr. Govan said that though ''running a film program at Lacma doesn't require an arm and a leg, it does require significant gifts, and we'd like it to be endowed,'' much like the Museum of Modern Art film program in New York City. Mr. Semel, who joined the board in 2006, declined a request for an interview. On Tuesday Mr. Govan is scheduled to meet with a delegation of 10 that includes leaders of the protest group, film critics and professors, in what is being called a ''popcorn summit.'' He said he saw ''a big space, a big need and a big opportunity'' in the debate over the program's future, but the supporters of the status quo remain skeptical.
 ''We are sticking to our guns,'' Ms. Levine said. ''If he wants to add supplemental programs, that is fantastic. But not at the cost of our classic film or foreign programming.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The entrance to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, whose decision to re-evaluate its film program has drawn criticism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); PETITIONS (72%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (57%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



765 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: The Postal Service Is Bullish on Mail

BYLINE: By ANDREA FULLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Amid unrelenting bad news, the Postal Service is striving to make the case that mail is here to stay.
 ''We're very optimistic about the future of mail because mail has great value,'' said Susan Plonkey, vice president for sales. ''Mail works.''
 Top postal officials say the recession is to blame for the agency's $7 billion deficit and a steep drop in the volume of mail, and they express confidence that mail, particularly advertising, will rebound. 
 But even the Postal Service acknowledges that some mail is gone for good. Earlier this week, the Postal Service said that it would offer cash incentives in a bid to get up to 30,000 employees to voluntarily resign or take early retirement by the end of September and save $500 million next year.
 With the Internet, the Postal Service has been experiencing what it calls ''electronic diversion'' with people moving online for correspondence and other activities. 
 Companies' campaigns to push consumers online are likely to continue that trend. Verizon Communications has begun a ''Get Your Green On'' campaign, giving customers a chance to win a 2010 Toyota Prius Hybrid in a sweepstakes if they go paperless. While several phone companies charge for detailed paper bills, in September T-Mobile will begin charging $1.50 for a basic printed bill each month. 
 ''It's cheaper for us to process,'' said Angeline Depauw, director of remittance processing for Verizon, about online bill paying. ''You have less risk of fraud. It's just more efficient.''
 Javelin Strategy and Research, a research and consulting company for the financial services industry, says that 70 percent of households that have computers pay bills online each month, up from 64 percent last year. 
 Mark Schwanhausser, an analyst for Javelin, said that people move to online bill paying for convenience, and because they are ''fee sensitive'' during a tough economic climate.
 ''I don't think this is going to be something that's going to backtrack,'' he said. 
 Another culprit: the electronic filing of tax returns. The Postal Service says there was a sharp increase in e-filing this year, with fewer people mailing in their forms. Many people will also receive electronic tax refunds, which were previously mailed as checks.
 ''It's only growing,'' said Kate Fulton, senior vice president for government relations at H&R Block, which helps customers file online. ''The I.R.S. is driving this. They want more e-filing, and we are embracing it too.'' 
 The Postal Service is resigned to losing some business to online alternatives. But postal officials also say that, with the Internet in full swing, the volume of mail hit a record in 2006. That year, the Postal Service handled 213 billion pieces of mail because, even as it lost some business to the Internet, advertising mail was booming. 
 The Postal Service says that a decline in marketing mail, like credit card offers and bulk advertisements, is responsible for most of the drop in the amount of mail sent this fiscal year. About 175 billion pieces of mail will be sent in 2009, down from 202 billion last year. 
 ''I believe that when the economy returns, marketing mail will grow,'' Ms. Plonkey, the service's vice president, said. ''I think that we'll continue to have electronic diversion, but I think that we can offset that loss.''
 Advertising analysts agree with that assessment to some degree. Brian Wieser, head forecaster at the media agency Magna, says that advertising mail will grow but not get back to where it was before the recession within the next five years.
 Referring to studies showing that advertising mail engages consumers, Mr. Wieser said that mail has a ''tactile character that's difficult to replace with online equivalents.'' 
 ''You are sometimes overwhelmed by spam,'' Ms. Plonkey said, but with paper mail, ''the message stays. You don't delete it. We find that it's tremendously effective.''
 The problem, Mr. Wieser says, is that mail is much more expensive than other types of advertising, particularly online advertising, which he predicts will grow more rapidly. 
 Mike Hayes, the chief strategy, development and operations officer for Geomentum, a marketing and media consulting agency part of the Interpublic Group of Companies along with Magna, says that advertisers are exploring new types of custom advertising besides mail, such as mobile advertisements and advertisements directed at particular segments of cable television viewers.
 ''As advertisers have pulled back, in pulling it back, they're looking at alternatives because they're forced to,'' Mr. Hayes said. 
 Some companies say they are already moving in new directions. Laurie Brooks, a spokeswoman for L. L. Bean, said the company would continue to value catalogs because of studies that show they are effective. But she also said that high costs have led to smaller and fewer catalogs.
 ''A few years ago our Web sales surpassed our catalog sales, so we are shifting our focus to Web advertising,'' Ms. Brooks said. 
 Despite a drop in advertising, the Postal Service has had growth in some areas. 
 While first-class mail has been on the decline over all for several years, there has been more use of first-class mail by online movie rental companies like Netflix, whose revenues have been growing during the recession. Netflix ships around two million DVDs each day. 
 Steve Swasey, vice president for corporate communications for Netflix, believes this may mean the Postal Service and the Internet can co-exist.
 ''It used to be invitations,'' he said, talking about mail that people were excited to receive. But after the onset of e-mail messages and Evite, he said, ''Netflix is something that you rush out to your mail box for.'' 
 The Postal Service's future in package delivery also appears bright, though shipping services make up only about 10 percent of its revenue. Even as other types of mail decline, packages have been holding strong, despite competition from FedEx and United Parcel Service. 
 Bob Bernstock, the Postal Service's president for mailing and shipping services, attributes its success in shipping to a strong marketing campaign and competitive pricing. In this case, the Internet has also been a help, not a harm, for the Postal Service because of Web sales on sites like eBay. 
 ''If you want to get a one-pound sweater or something like that to a home, we're damn good at it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About 175 billion pieces of mail will be sent in 2009, down from 202 billion last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); SWEEPSTAKES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNET BANKING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (63%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (54%); H & R BLOCK INC (51%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); HRB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (51%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



766 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Spending Rises a Bit, But Earnings Do Not

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Consumers spent slightly more money in July as they took advantage of the government's cash-for-clunkers automobile rebate program, but personal incomes were flat for the month, an indication that workers were still struggling to get by as prices of gasoline and food threatened to creep higher. 
 In its monthly snapshot of consumer spending and earnings, the Commerce Department reported that personal spending rose 0.2 percent in July from a month earlier, roughly in line with expectations. 
 Forecasters expect that the spending numbers will leap in August, reflecting the strong demand for cars spurred by the $3 billion in rebates offered by the government. But they warn that spending is likely to fall back as the effects of the program fade.
 While personal incomes remained unchanged from a month earlier, the savings rate fell to 4.2 percent in July, after earlier reaching 6 percent. 
 Economists expect a new era of thrift among consumers worried about the value of their homes and stock portfolios and the specter of unemployment. But if incomes remain stagnant, that move toward higher savings could slide back.
 ''The savings rate got a big boost from the government subsidies, and now those are quickly fading,'' said Ryan Sweet, an economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''Looking beyond the cash for clunkers, underlying consumer spending is extremely weak. Household finances are stretched. It's unlikely that the consumer will lead us out of this recession.''
 In a separate report Friday, the Reuters-University of Michigan consumer survey said that worries about high unemployment pushed consumer confidence to a four-month low in August. The final index of confidence for August fell to 65.7, the lowest since April, from 66.0 in July. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.
 Personal Income and Spending: In trillions (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); SALES REBATES (79%); RECESSION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); FOOD PRICES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (57%); GASOLINE PRICES (57%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



767 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: After a Bumpy Ride, Back at Square One

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
IN the last eight years, home prices in the United States have almost exactly kept up with inflation. But it has been a wild ride.
 During the period, the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller 20-city composite index of home prices rose almost 21 percent. The Consumer Price Index also rose almost 21 percent. 
 The period, from June 2001 through the June 2009 figures that were reported this week, can be separated into two periods: the five-year boom and the three-year bust. There are limited indications that prices have started to rally in some areas, but the overall index's move in June just kept up with inflation.
 During the boom, home prices outpaced inflation by 10.7 percent a year for five years. During the bust, they plunged, trailing inflation by 13.6 percent a year.
 The accompanying chart shows the pace of home prices, adjusted for inflation, and also shows the wide sectional variations. At one extreme is Detroit, where the boom never came but the bust has been severe. Adjusted for inflation, prices there are now down by almost half over the eight-year period.
 At the other extreme is New York, where the boom was not nearly as strong as in some areas but a larger part of the gains have been retained. At the height of the period, New York prices had outpaced inflation by 62 percent. At the latest report, prices are still up by 20 percent more than inflation.
 The Case-Shiller figures cover very large areas for each city. In New York, the region extends from Trenton up to New Haven. The figures reflect sales of single-family homes only, so Manhattan, a market that is dominated by apartments, has a very small impact.
 The maximum performance of various areas reflects the differing housing markets. 
 In areas like Dallas, Denver and Charlotte, N.C., home prices never rose much more than inflation. Those areas had ample land available to spread out, enabling developers to meet demand without major price changes. In contrast, areas like Los Angeles, New York and Washington were largely built up, and developers had to go far from the city to find raw land. In addition, zoning and other rules sometimes limited or delayed building.
 That explanation does not, however, help with the two desert booms and busts -- Phoenix and Las Vegas, where speculation went wild despite ample land for expansion. At the height of the boom, new developments around Phoenix would announce plans to begin selling homes -- as yet not even started -- on a Monday and would-be buyers would spend the weekend in sleeping bags outside the development to get a chance to buy.
 Many such ''buyers'' did not expect to ever move into the house, or even pay for it. Instead, they expected to sell their right to the house, at a profit, before construction was completed. When that strategy stopped working, it left a large supply of unoccupied houses to depress prices.
 Now foreclosures are still rising, even as home sales and prices seem to have stabilized. If the worst is over, it will have been a wild ride that ended very close to where it began, but with many people much worse off for the experience.

GRAPHIC: CHART: An Eight-Year Round Trip: Change from June 2001 in S. & P./Case-Shiller Home Price Index, adjusted for inflation (Sources: Standard & Poor's
 Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



768 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING COMPANIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Tiffany's Profit Falls but Tops Forecasts

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Tiffany & Company said Friday that its second-quarter profit fell but beat analysts' expectations as its steep sales decline moderated, providing a sparkle of hope in the moribund luxury market. The company also raised its full-year earnings forecast. ''While economic and retail conditions remain challenging, we were encouraged to see many stores achieving either smaller year-over-year rates of sales declines or modest sales growth compared with the past two quarters,'' the chief executive, Michael J. Kowalski, above, said in a statement. 
 The company, which is based in New York, earned $56.8 million, or 46 cents a share, down 30 percent from $80.8 million, or 63 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items, Tiffany earned 39 cents a share, better than the 33 cents expected by Wall Street analysts. Sales in the period, which ended July 31, fell 16 percent, to $612.5 million, from $729.6 million. Sales fell 22 percent and 20 percent in the previous two quarters.
 Sales at stores open at least a year in the United States dropped 27 percent. At its flagship New York store, sales were off 30 percent. Tiffany shares gained $3.82, or 11.3 percent, to close at $37.57. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (93%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (93%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (93%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J KOWALSKI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



769 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Bank That Bought Part of Lehman Hires 3 of Its Alumni

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The Japanese bank Nomura has hired three senior executives from rivals this month for its fixed-income division in New York as part of an effort to win market share in the United States, almost a year after it expanded in Europe with the acquisition of part of Lehman Brothers' business. 
 The moves mirror steps by other big investment banks that are trying to catch up to Goldman Sachs and its recent record profits. 
 One of the executives, Peter Hornick, joined Nomura earlier this month from Deutsche Bank as head of fixed-income sales for the Americas, according to an internal memorandum obtained by The New York Times and confirmed by a Nomura spokesman. 
 The other executives, Arang Varadhachary, who also joined from Deutsche Bank, and Jock Jones, who joined from Barclays Capital, were named co-heads of global credit products for the Americas. All three are former Lehman employees and are based in New York.
 ''Nomura is expanding its businesses in the U.S. to better serve clients globally,'' the president and chief executive of Nomura's American region, Shigesuke Kashiwagi, said in an e-mailed statement. ''We have and will hire teams of professionals to help achieve that goal.''
 Nomura is not alone in expanding its fixed-income operation. UBS, Switzerland's largest bank, hired about two dozen bankers for its fixed-income division since the beginning of the year. Morgan Stanley named the fixed-income veteran Jack J. DiMaio as global head of interest rate, credit and currency trading in July and more hires are planned.
 Nomura currently employs about 800 in the United States. The acquisition of Lehman Brothers' European business bolstered its trading revenue and contributed to the bank's first quarterly profit since 2007, for the three months ended in June. 
 Earlier, Nomura expanded its equity business, hiring the former Bank of America executive Ciaran T. O'Kelly in July to head its equity division for the Americas. The bank said then that it aimed to become top global liquidity provider in equities.
 Mr. Hornick joined Nomura after less than a year with Deutsche Bank, where he was head of credit sales for the United States. Mr. Jones and Mr. Varadhachary will be responsible for building Nomura's credit business in the Americas, including flow and structured credit, according to the memorandum. 
 Mr. Jones was also appointed global head of structured credit at Nomura. Barclays took over Lehman's United States assets last year and has since then stepped up hiring in Europe to build a complementing business there. 
 Nomura gained market share in Japanese currency and interest rate products this year, where it now ranks among the top five, and entered the ranking of European rate derivative products among the top 10, according to rankings by Euromoney.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CURRENCIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RANKINGS (61%)

COMPANY: NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%); UBS SA (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: NMR (NYSE) (92%); N33 (SGX) (92%); 8604 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



770 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Sleuth Plans to Start Credit Rating Firm

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Jules B. Kroll, who built a big business as an aggressive corporate sleuth, is planning to create a competitor for the now-tarnished credit agencies.
 After selling his namesake security company five years ago, Mr. Kroll says he sees an opportunity to take many of the skills honed in corporate intelligence and use them to analyze the creditworthiness of companies. 
 Mr. Kroll said he was negotiating with several unidentified companies that already had the capabilities to analyze operational risk, portfolio risk and credit. And like many others, he is dismissive of the existing field. 
 ''There is a lack of credibility in the rating agencies as a result of what happened in the mortgage crisis,'' he said in an interview last week. 
 The big three credit agencies -- Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings -- have been widely criticized for giving high ratings to various types of securities made from pools of mortgages, whose values have since tumbled. Under their business model, the agencies are paid by the issuers of the securities, raising questions about how objective their ratings are.
 More investigation could have made a difference, Mr. Kroll asserts. For example, ''Fitch did not know that 15 percent of the people that were the bases of the mortgages never even made their mortgage payments,'' he noted. ''We are going to do our own research.'' 
 Mr. Kroll's own record has been challenged in the last year after it was disclosed that the Kroll security company for many years staunchly defended the Stanford Financial Group, which authorities now say is at the center of a multibillion-dollar fraud.
 Mr. Kroll, 68, founded his security company in 1972 after working as a lawyer and trying his hand as a corporate detective. His client list came to include the United States government, which hired him to find hidden assets of the Marcos regime in the Philippines. Five years ago, he sold the firm to Marsh & McLennan for $1.9 billion and pocketed about $100 million. He remained chairman until last year, and his agreement not to compete with the company expired last month. 
 A well-known workaholic and entrepreneur in spirit, Mr. Kroll is planning the credit ratings company and a separate venture called K2 Global Partners, which will perform intelligence work for corporations and other clients. He is also working on a book about his career. 
 When asked about the Stanford problems, Mr. Kroll said that his former company averaged 15,000 investigations a year. ''To me, the issue over a 37-year period is what do you think of the integrity of the firm,'' he said. 
 Mr. Kroll's company did work for Stanford for more than a decade, according to an article in the July issue of Vanity Fair. Earlier this year, R. Allen Stanford was charged with bilking investors out of $7 billion. He is awaiting trial. Stanford's chief financial officer, James M. Davis, pleaded guilty this week and provided more details of the reported fraud, including a blood pact with a regulator, in his agreement with prosecutors.
 Two Stanford investors, the National Electrical Contractors Association, a trade group, and its foundation, Electri International, have sued Kroll Inc., asserting that the firm had a conflict of interest. The two groups hired Kroll to perform due diligence on Stanford. They say they were not told that Kroll was also representing the company. 
 The lawsuits also say that the research prepared by Kroll on Stanford was inadequate. A spokeswoman for Kroll declined to comment on the lawsuits.
 More problematic for Mr. Kroll than his Stanford connection may be the entrenched nature of the major credit agencies.
 ''I think it would take a consciousness shift among everyone'' for business to move elsewhere, said Jerome Fons, former managing director of credit policy at Moody's, ''and it has to start with our government.''
 ''Right now,'' he said, ''the officially recognized agencies are very deeply embedded in financial regulation, investment contracts and rules.''
 Mr. Kroll said he planned to start by having investors pay a subscription fee for data and analysis. That business, he acknowledged, has far lower margins than working with issuers who want a rating on their securities. 
 Sylvain Raines, a former Moody's analyst and co-founder of R&R Consulting, which helps investors gauge debt risk, conceded that there was a vacuum that many might try to fill. But he dismissed Mr. Kroll's plans, saying that structured finance and capital markets required very deep knowledge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jules B. Kroll, who sold his security company five years ago, is planning a new venture. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); COMPETITIVE INTELLIGENCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); LAWYERS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (57%); MHM (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



771 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Eye Maine Senator for a G.O.P. Vote on Health

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Congress prepares to hit the restart button on the health care debate, Senator Olympia J. Snowe does not relish the prospect of becoming a Group of One.
 ''I certainly hope not,'' exclaimed Ms. Snowe, about the possibility that she could end up as the sole Republican willing to join Senate Democrats in moving ahead on a broad change in health care. 
 Ms. Snowe and two Republican colleagues, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, have been privately negotiating a health care plan with three Democratic members of the Senate Finance Committee in what has become known as the Group of Six. 
 But Mr. Grassley and Mr. Enzi have, during the August recess, become increasingly at odds with Democratic approaches to health care. 
 This has given Ms. Snowe a high degree of leverage as Democrats ask, What does Olympia Snowe want? 
 The senator, a centrist from Maine who is no stranger to breaking with her party on policy, said she was still working out the answer, though she said the August recess had led her to believe that Congress might have to scale back its health care expectations. 
 Ms. Snowe says she wants the public to understand that there is a serious problem, that the health care system is in crisis and that even people who are happy with their current coverage will not stay content for long, given rapidly rising costs and steadily shrinking benefits.
 ''They may say they are satisfied now,'' the senator said in an interview, ''but it is going to get worse, given the skyrocketing increases that are only going to persist. Something needs to be done to remove the deep anxiety that people find themselves in because of the lack of health insurance.''
 As for the details, Ms. Snowe has been the rare Republican willing to show any interest in a public health insurance plan as an option, though she favors a trigger to institute such a government-operated program only if private health insurers do not make coverage more affordable.
 She said Maine's experience with insurance exchanges to create more flexibility for consumers had persuaded her that for less-populated states, the exchanges had to extend beyond state borders. She also thinks the idea of a reinsurance program to have the federal government absorb the risks of some catastrophic health care costs in an effort to lower private premiums is worth exploring.
 All of this means that Ms. Snowe, a senior member of the Finance Committee with a longtime interest in health policy, is the chief Democratic target. And with Senator Edward M. Kennedy's death leaving Democrats a single vote shy of the 60 required to overcome Republican procedural objections at least temporarily, their need to entice at least one Republican to cross the aisle has become more critical.
 It is hardly the first time Democrats have turned to Ms. Snowe for help. 
 Most recently, she was one of three Republicans to back President Obama's economic stimulus plan, pushing that legislation over the top and frustrating her Republican colleagues. 
 Along with Senator Susan Collins, her fellow Maine Republican, Ms. Snowe has backed Democratic budget plans opposed by most of her party. She has balked at some tax cuts, pushed for more attention to rising federal deficits and generally shown a willingness to split from Republicans on issues where she sees more common ground with Democrats.
 ''She has courage, real courage,'' said Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, one of the Finance Committee Democrats in the Group of Six who, as chairman of the Budget Committee, has also worked with Ms. Snowe on fiscal issues.
 Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, who has consulted with Ms. Snowe, said: ''She is really in it for the policy. When you think of an ideal senator, regardless of party or philosophy, Olympia Snowe really fits that mold.''
 Republicans and their allies are not so enthusiastic. To them, Ms. Snowe is a potential turncoat who could be used by Democrats to slap a bipartisan label on any health care plan even if she is the only Republican backing it. 
 The conservative Club for Growth has run television commercials in Maine warning that Ms. Snowe could provide a crucial assist to Democrats intent on giving the federal government more say in national health care.
 ''She is in many cases what we would call a RINO,'' said Chris Chocola, a former congressman who now heads the Club for Growth, applying a dismissive acronym for Republican In Name Only. 
 But Ms. Snowe and Ms. Collins have thrived in Maine politics by following their own political instincts, even as Congressional Republicans have all but disappeared elsewhere in New England. She still holds out hope for a final plan that could draw support from members of both parties. 
 She said that what had annoyed her during this summer of health care fights was that the issue had become the subject of political warfare rather than problem-solving.
 ''It shouldn't be about winning and losing,'' she said. ''If it comes down to all or nothing in this polarizing standoff, that does nothing to serve the interests of this country at a time of great consequence. That is what saddens me.''
 Ms. Snowe said she hoped the Group of Six could hold together and reach some compromise that allowed Congress to move ahead, even if it was not the sweeping plan some envision.
 ''It might not be everything everybody wants; it might be too much for some,'' she said. ''But it just be might be enough to start a strong foundation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Olympia J. Snowe expects growing public discontent with the health care system.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN EWING/PORTLAND PRESS HERALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE (68%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); REINSURANCE (68%)

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (93%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (73%); MIKE ENZI (73%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (71%) MAINE, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



772 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy's Closest Confidante, in Politics and Life

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
It was 1991, the worst year of Senator Edward M. Kennedy's life since Chappaquiddick, 22 years earlier. With scandal unfolding that spring in Palm Beach, Fla., involving his nephew, the senator was humiliated by tabloid photos that showed him in a nightshirt after their boys' night out, an aging, dissolute playboy.
 In the Senate, he was engaged in a difficult struggle over a major civil rights bill. And then, that fall, with accusations of sexual harassment dominating the Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings, there was the televised spectacle of Ted Kennedy -- long a champion of women's rights -- sitting mute and powerless, silenced by the Palm Beach case. His approval ratings plummeted.
 But 1991, as it turned out, was also one of the best years of Ted Kennedy's life. That was the year he fell in love with Victoria Reggie, the canny, razor-smart, beautiful 37-year-old daughter of old family friends, who was also a top banking lawyer. 
 Ms. Reggie was having her own struggles. Newly divorced from Grier C. Raclin, a lawyer, she was juggling her demanding career and life as the single mother of two small children. And back home in Crowley, La., her father, Edmund Reggie, a longtime judge and political insider, was facing felony charges of misapplying bank money. That June, her parents invited Ted Kennedy to a small dinner for their 40th wedding anniversary at Vicki's home in Washington. When the senator showed up alone, Vicki joked in front of everyone: ''What's the matter? Couldn't you get a date?''
 ''My mother, I think, was horrified,'' Mrs. Kennedy would say later, in an interview with her husband's biographer Adam Clymer. '' 'Oh, don't talk to men that way, poor Vicki.' ''
 The next day Mr. Kennedy made what he -- and everyone who knew him -- would later view as the smartest move of his life. He called to ask Vicki out to dinner.
 In recalling the courtship, Vicki Kennedy told Mr. Clymer that she had been aware of the senator's low approval ratings, which he had mentioned over dinner one night. They had fallen into the mid-40s. ''And I said, 'Oh, wow, I've never gone out with anybody whose approval rating wasn't at least 48.' ''
 The senator proposed to her in January 1992 at a performance of ''La Boheme'' at the Metropolitan Opera in New York -- a love of opera was a passion they shared. They married that July at his home in McLean, Va., in front of about 30 family members.
 And that was the beginning of the extraordinary relationship --a love story as well as a political partnership -- that would define the final years of Mr. Kennedy's life, both personally and professionally. Mrs. Kennedy brought him a happiness, his friends said, that had long eluded him, seeing him through until the end, and to even now, as she presides at his public memorials in Boston and prepares for his burial at Arlington National Cemetery.
 ''I have seen political couples come and go for four decades,'' said David Mixner, 63, a writer and civil rights activist who got his start in politics at age 14, when he volunteered for John F. Kennedy's presidential campaign. ''I don't think there has been a partnership and a love story in American politics like this one.''
 While no one who knows her would ever describe Vicki Kennedy as a woman who needed rescuing, her friends say that Mrs. Kennedy, who had never expected to marry again, was also transformed. She gained a worshipful husband who adored her children, consulted with her on everything from Kennedy family matters to campaign strategy, and made her his partner in a life of politics and public service that she had been introduced to as a girl by her father and that she loved herself.
 ''She saw him as many of us did, as the person carrying on the progressive tradition of the Democratic Party,'' said Marylouise Oates, a writer and friend of the Kennedys who is married to Robert M. Shrum, the Democratic strategist and former speechwriter for Mr. Kennedy. ''He was the love of her life -- and the icon of her life.''
 It was the blending of two large, powerful political families, the Irish-American, Roman Catholic Kennedys from Boston and the Lebanese-American, Roman Catholic Reggies from Crowley, a relationship whose seeds were planted at the Democratic National Convention in 1956, when Ted was 24, and Vicki was 2. 
 That was when Edmund Reggie helped deliver his state's delegates for John Kennedy, who was running for the vice-presidential nomination, but lost to Senator Estes Kefauver. It was the beginning of a lifelong friendship between the Reggies and the Kennedys. 
 Mrs. Kennedy revealed what a valuable asset she was during her husband's hard-fought campaign for re-election in 1994 against Mitt Romney, a 47-year-old multimillionaire venture capitalist.
 For the first time in decades, Mr. Kennedy was contending with a viable Republican opponent. Mr. Romney cast the 62-year-old senator as an old, tired, out-of-step liberal. 
 Mrs. Kennedy was instrumental in the campaign's creation of a series of devastating advertisements that challenged Mr. Romney's proclamations about his record as a venture capitalist in creating jobs in recession-battered Massachusetts. The spots focused on the workers at the Ampad stationery factory in Marion, Ind., where Mr. Romney's company, Bain Capital, had eliminated jobs, reduced wages and discarded the union contract.
 In a strategy session that spring, Mrs. Kennedy urged her husband's advisers to learn more about Mr. Romney's company. Although Mr. Romney was claiming that he had created thousands of jobs in Massachusetts, it was her experience as a banking lawyer, she said, that when venture capitalists took over businesses, there could be a lot of downsizing and layoffs. 
 As a result of her urging, the campaign hired The Investigative Group Inc., a detective firm headed by a former Senate Watergate counsel, Terry Lenzner. The firm discovered how Bain management had handled the Ampad workers after taking over the factory. The advertisements ran in the fall.
 ''She was key,'' Mr. Shrum said of Mrs. Kennedy. ''She had a very good strategic sense.'' 
 In an interview on the 1994 campaign with Mr. Clymer, Mrs. Kennedy demonstrated great attention to detail, down to her objection to a health care-related commercial that put her husband in a lab coat -- not because it made him look fat, as had been reported, but because he did not look like himself.
 ''It looked like a costume as opposed to what he really was doing,'' she said. 
 The interview also revealed the intimacy of their political bond. She told Mr. Clymer that two days before a debate with Mr. Romney, her husband ''was brushing his teeth in Boston, and he just apropos of nothing turned to me, and he said, 'I'm ready, you know.' 
 ''And I said, 'Yeah, I know.' Because I did. I knew. You could just see it.'' 
 The senator was credited with besting Mr. Romney in the debate.
 Years later, Mr. Mixner would observe Mrs. Kennedy in action at a 2004 fund-raising reception she and the senator had at their home in Washington for the gay, lesbian and bisexual community. 
 Vicki Kennedy greeted each of the some 300 guests at the front door. ''She remembered every single name -- and where each person was from,'' Mr. Mixner recalled this week. ''I would just say a name, and then she would greet them, and say just the right thing -- 'Thank you for your work on the environmental community.' I was floored.''
 The people at that event, Mr. Mixner said, helped elect seven Democratic senators that fall.
 ''The two of them never wasted a day,'' Mr. Mixner said of the senator and his wife. ''They sailed, they sang, they laughed, they told great old Irish political stories.'' 
 And even as she was by his side in the last year of his life, helping him navigate the doctors' appointments and medical care, friends say, she was also the one making sure his life was as full as he wanted it to be. That meant time to work on health care legislation and on his memoir, to sail with friends and family, to enjoy her cooking, and to sit on the porch with their Portuguese water dogs, Sunny and Splash -- and the newest addition, as of last winter, Captain Courageous.
 ''In that first week, when the diagnosis came -- how she put the entire medical profession through their paces,'' Joseph Kennedy Jr., a nephew of the senator, said in an interview Thursday after the wake. ''And then she basically put my uncle, who had always carried our entire family on his shoulders, she put him on hers, and she just carried him.''
 On Thursday, dressed in simple black, she was carrying on as his partner, friends say, presiding at his wake in Boston, greeting the tens of thousands of mourners. She stood for hours at the Kennedy library, shaking hands, saying a few words to each person who came through, extending herself, Joe Kennedy said, to Teddy's people as he would have wanted, just as they had planned it, together. 
 There has been the inevitable talk of Vicki Kennedy's running for her husband's vacant Senate seat. But her friends say she has not expressed interest in it.
 With her husband gone, ''I think she will do exactly what he wanted her to do,'' Mr. Mixner said, ''and continue living life to the fullest -- with great sorrow, with a great sense of loss,'' but not, he added, ''as a victim or as a widow.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Senator Edward M. Kennedy's widow, Victoria, misidentified a relative of the senator who praised the way she dealt with Mr. Kennedy's battle with cancer. He is Joseph P. Kennedy II, a nephew -- not Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., who was the senator's oldest brother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Edward M. Kennedy and his wife, Victoria, leaving Massachusetts General Hospital in May 2008 after his diagnosis of a brain tumor. They ''never wasted a day,'' one friend said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID L. RYAN/THE BOSTON GLOBE) (A1)
Victoria Reggie Kennedy greeting mourners Friday at the Kennedy library in Boston, where her husband's body lay in repose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
 Mrs. Kennedy campaigning with her husband in 1994. Aides say her advertising strategy helped the senator win re-election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAULA A. SCULLY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (90%); FAMILY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (71%); WOMEN (71%); CHILDREN (66%); FELONIES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); OPERA (63%); WRITERS (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (51%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (94%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



773 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: As With the Kennedys, the Large, Boisterous Irish Family Is Fading Into History

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON; Ann Farmer and Sam Roberts contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The hunt for the comrade to a single shoe in a mountain of shoes. The calls, shouted to be heard above the din, of ''Are you decent?'' The buddy system. The comfort of knowing that no matter where you went, everyone knew at least one of your older brothers or sisters, and so in a way, knew you, too. 
 The large Irish-American family, once the norm, is now the exception, a turnaround brought into sharp relief this week with the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy and the retrospective look at the Kennedy clan. Joseph Kennedy's nine children rose to heights unknown to most of their Irish-American peers, but in noisy homes and apartments in Irish neighborhoods in New York, Boston and Chicago, there was something familiar in those Kennedy family photographs. 
 ''It was great to be able to look at the Kennedys as sort of, 'Well, look at them,' '' said Kevin McCabe, 57, one of a family of 12 children who grew up in Richmond Hill, Queens. ''They sure as hell stuck together, and they were all in love with each other, and that was the transcending message to everyone else. That is the essence of a family, and what you want to take away from it as another big family.''
 Mr. McCabe has three daughters and a son -- what would have been considered a starter set back in the day. 
 Juliana C. Nash, 71, a retired art appraiser who lives in Murray Hill in Manhattan, was born to a mother who immigrated to New York from Ireland. ''When she came to America, she thought she'd get pregnant sitting next to a man on a couch,'' Ms. Nash said. 
 She married a Dutch steamship chef, and they sat together on the couch six times in seven years. ''Every friend we had that was an only child latched onto us,'' Ms. Nash said. ''They wanted to be part of a big family.'' 
 Numbers chronicling the shrinking of the Irish-American family are hard to come by. The census counted ancestry differently before 1980, said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College. But it has been well documented that American families in general have become smaller over the years. 
 ''From about 1900, the Irish-American family pattern mirrored the American middle-class standard of family size,'' said Marion R. Casey, an assistant professor of Irish-American studies at New York University. 
 The smaller Irish-American family has been attributed to many factors, but the one most often cited is a decline in willingness to defer to the Roman Catholic Church after the Second Vatican Council in the 1960s. ''The church's guidance on all kinds of things, including family planning, doesn't carry the weight it used to carry,'' said Terry Golway, a writer who teaches American history at Kean University in New Jersey. 
 In New York, the migration of the Irish middle class from the city to the suburbs contributed to the decline of the double-digit family, he said. ''Their world was not defined by the parish as it once was, when they lived in the Bronx,'' Professor Golway said. ''They moved to the suburbs, where it really was a melting pot. Not everybody on your block was Irish anymore.''
 For many families, size comes down to simple economics. Tony O'Hara, 49, of Park Slope in Brooklyn, is one of seven children and married a woman from a family of the same size. But they have just one child, a 13-year-old boy. There was never any thought of having a big family, he said. 
 ''It was just never in the books. Never in the stars,'' said Mr. O'Hara, who teaches graphic design at Touro College in New York. ''We're talking about two different eras. In the '50s you could survive on one income and raise a fairly large family. Today, with even two incomes, it's a challenge.'' 
 Rosemary Sheehan, 51, a schoolteacher in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, is the sixth of seven children, and embraced the idea of having nearly that many children of her own. 
 ''My attitude, when I was younger and child-bearing, was that I would take what God gave me, being Irish Catholic and very Catholic,'' she said. She ended up with two daughters, and none of her siblings had more than three. 
 She looks back fondly on her crowded upbringing. ''It always made me feel safe,'' she said. ''If there was something wrong, there would always be a grown-up available.'' 
 In New York, a big Irish name is Carey, as in former Gov. Hugh L. Carey, who had 14 children. Their daily life included simple strategies for survival. 
 ''We had a buddy system,'' said Nancy Carey Cassidy, one of his daughters. ''If we ever went anywhere, the older ones would be in charge of the next group, and the middle ones would be in charge of the youngest group. It worked. We didn't lose anybody.'' She would go on to have two children, but said she would have had more ''if nature had cooperated.'' 
 Kevin Cahill, president of the American Irish Historical Society, was one of 10 children. He said his parents ''just liked kids.''
 ''And dogs, cats, gerbils -- whatever else was natural,'' he added. 
 Mr. McCabe, an aide to the former City Council speaker Peter F. Vallone and the owner of Aviator Sports and Recreation in Brooklyn, remembered his father taking the children to see President John F. Kennedy pass in a motorcade in 1962. ''My father's holding the twins, and we're all tight in this big crowd, waving, and Kennedy looks at us and points at this replication of what he had grown up with, and he had this big grin,'' he said. 
 With the Kennedy clan again in the forefront of people's minds, those from big families said they thought of their own parents and siblings over the years when the Kennedys experienced tragedy. 
 Caroline Higgins, 42, of Andover, Mass., outside Boston, was the sixth of nine children born in nine years. ''They had so many bad times that they had to come together,'' she said. ''I can't imagine, if I didn't come from a big family, how to get through it. Other times you wish you were an only child, and then you're so glad you have so many people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A McCabe family photograph taken in 1965. Kevin McCabe, who had 11 siblings, considered the Kennedys a model. ''They sure as hell stuck together, and they were all in love with each other, and that was the transcending message to everyone else,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FAMILY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); CENSUS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); RELIGION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



774 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Buy Me Some Peanuts And Nectarines

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A few minutes before the seventh-inning stretch, a man in a Derek Jeter jersey seeking a snack made a comment to his 13-year-old son that might sound absurd in most baseball stadiums.
 ''I'm more of a nectarine person than a peach person,'' said the man, Tony Vecchio, a 42-year-old New Jersey firefighter.
 Mr. Vecchio and his son were standing in a wide corridor inside the new Yankee Stadium, around the corner from concessions selling 1,341-calorie Nathan's cheese fries for $7.25, 500-calorie Nathan's footlong beef hot dogs for $6.75 and 290-calorie Budweisers for $10. They had stumbled upon a fruit stand: green and red apples, pears, bananas, oranges, nectarines and peaches, each $1.50. 
 Mr. Vecchio bought two nectarines for himself and a $5.50 pineapple cup for his son, Anthony. ''It's a great idea,'' Mr. Vecchio said. ''I started a diet with my wife yesterday.''
 The new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets have been quietly offering fans an unlikely concept in ballpark cuisine: fresh produce.
 At Yankee Stadium this week, in the entrance hall just beyond Gate 4, the fruits were arranged in baskets and trays on a wooden pushcart and on two other displays. It is a place of only-in-New York moments: men and women, some in Yankee pinstripes, shorts and sneakers, some holding tall half-empty cups of beer, squeezing fruit and asking if the peaches were fresh. 
 Several customers said the stand was a pleasant surprise. In the third inning of a game on Tuesday against the Texas Rangers, Randy Ian Brandoff, 33, an executive at a private jet company, had trouble deciding between a nectarine and a peach, and walked away with one of each. A few minutes later, Ronnie and Carole Meyer, a retired couple from Bloomington, Minn., bought two bananas. ''There's too much greasy food,'' said Mrs. Meyer, 64, adding that she and her husband would probably have bought popcorn had they not found the fruit stand. 
 Angela Mangels, 31, a health-conscious architect from Long Island, was not planning to eat anything at the stadium. ''I don't normally buy anything at ball fields,'' she said. She bought two nectarines, an apple and a banana at the stand for $6. 
 Like nearly everything else at the $1.5 billion stadium, from the players to the beer to the seats, the fruit is expensive. At outdoor fruit stands around the city, apples can be had for less than 75 cents and peaches for less than 50 cents. And though the old-fashioned-looking stand is called Farmers Market, it is closer in size to a street cart than to one of the city's Greenmarkets, and it is more a corporate than a down-home (or upstate) affair.
 The fruit is supplied by Melissa's Produce, an importer and distributor based in Los Angeles, and the stand is operated by Legends Hospitality Management, the company founded by the Yankees, the Dallas Cowboys, Goldman Sachs and CIC Partners that runs the concessions at Yankee Stadium. The Red Delicious apples are from Washington, the peaches and nectarines from California and the Bartlett pears from Oregon. The Fuji apples come from New Zealand.
 Michael Hurwitz, the director of the Greenmarket program, whose 49 markets around the city are supplied by regional growers, said he was happy to hear of the ballpark fruit but expressed disappointment at the lack of local fare. 
 ''I'm thrilled that it's there,'' Mr. Hurwitz said. ''I just think that there's a great opportunity to support our regional economy and our regional growers, particularly in this economy. You could have New York State apples, you could have New York State peaches, you could have New York State pears.'' 
 Robert Schueller, the director of public relations at Melissa's, which also supplies the fruit stands at the Mets' stadium, Citi Field, said the company was trying to have stands placed in other stadiums around the country.
 Yankee Stadium has one cart and Citi Field two, near the entrance and exit of the World's Fare Market in right field; about 200 pounds of produce is sold during each game. Mr. Schueller said that the rainy weather in New York made it ''a tough season to offer the best flavor profiles,'' but that locally grown produce might be coming soon.
 ''We know that New York produces a lot of apples, and the fall season is just around the corner,'' he said.
 Joseph Fajar, 50, who manages the Yankee Stadium fruit stand for Legends, runs it as if it were his own little neighborhood market, sweeping up regularly and chatting with customers about the curious world of fruit. Mr. Fajar, a Bronx-born father of two with a Marine Corps tattoo on his arm, brings two qualities to the job: He knows produce (he worked in produce in the 1980s), and he knows people (he is a retired police officer out of the 50th Precinct in the Bronx). 
 He already has regulars. ''They come in early,'' Mr. Fajar said. ''They leave early. As a matter of fact, three of them didn't come in today. I'm hoping they're O.K.''
 By the seventh inning, some of Mr. Fajar's baskets and trays were empty or nearly empty. Though it seems unusual to munch on an apple at a Yankees game, the team and the fruit have something of a history. 
 In 1961, the governors of New York and Michigan made a bet over whether the Yankees or the Detroit Tigers would win the American League pennant. Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York bet three bushels of apples on the Yankees, and Gov. John B. Swainson of Michigan wagered one bushel on the Tigers.
 Mr. Swainson, in a letter to Mr. Rockefeller, called Michigan apples ''the nation's finest.'' Mr. Rockefeller, in a letter to Mr. Swainson, called New York apples ''delicious and unsurpassed.'' It was the year of Maris and Mantle, and Mr. Rockefeller won some apples.
 On Tuesday, a man approached Mr. Fajar in the middle of the game, apples very much on his mind, though not the kind Mr. Fajar offered. ''Do you know,'' the man asked, ''where I can get the caramel apple?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Olga Garcia selling fruit at Yankee Stadium this week. Like many things at the ballpark, the fruit, little of which is locally grown, is expensive: $1.50 a piece. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BASEBALL (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (88%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



775 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. MULLS ALTERNATIVES FOR MISSILE SHIELD LOCATIONS
 The Obama administration has developed alternative plans for a missile defense shield that may drop sites in Poland and the Czech Republic. The move would please Russia, but anger some allies. PAGE A4 
 DUTCH COURT BLOCKS TRIP
 The parents of Laura Dekker, 13, said yes to her dream of sailing alone around the world. But a court said maybe not. PAGE A4 
 FURY OVER U.S. IN COLOMBIA
 At a meeting in Argentina, the leaders of Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia voiced vehement opposition allowing more American troops on Colombian bases. PAGE A6 
 JAPAN IS MUM ON ECONOMY
 While the country seems poised to put the longtime minority party in power, the campaign has mostly ignored the Japan's economic maladies. A News Analysis. PAGE A7 
 FIGHTING ERUPTS IN MYANMAR
 The clashes between the central government and upland ethnic groups ended two decades of relative calm in northern Myanmar. Tens of thousands of refugees fled into China. PAGE A8 
 CALL TO CHARGE RIVALS IN IRAN
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad asked judiciary officials in Iran to ''mercilessly'' prosecute his political rivals for challenging his election and sullying Iran's image. PAGE A8 
 QAEDA TIED TO SAUDI ATTACK
 The attempted assassination of Saudi Arabia's deputy interior minister, Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, was arranged by an affiliate of Al Qaeda, a spokesman for the Saudi Interior Ministry said. PAGE A9 
 IRAQIS MOURN SHIITE LEADER
 The body of Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, a religious and political leader, arrived from Iran for a funeral procession through Baghdad. PAGE A9 
 Saturday Profile: Marina Silva A6 
 Ruling on Pakistani Scientist A8 
 Obituaries
 JAMES LORD, 86
 An intimate of Picasso and Giacometti, his biographies and memoirs provide a detailed portrait of the artistic milieu of Montparnasse after World War II. PAGE A19 
 ALEX GRASS, 82
 He helped transform a discount store in Scranton, Pa., into Rite Aid, one of the nation's largest drugstore chains. PAGE A19 
 National
 FLORIDA GOVERNOR SELECTS FRIEND FOR SENATE SEAT
 Bypassing better-known Republicans, Gov. Charlie Crist chose his top political adviser and friend, George LeMieux, to fill the Senate seat given up this month by Mel Martinez. PAGE A10 
 A TREK FOR CLIMATE CHANGE
 Greta Browne has encountered more than one global warming skeptic since last March, when she began a trek up the Eastern seaboard to draw attention to climate change. PAGE A10 
 THE IRISH-AMERICAN FAMILY
 The large Irish-American family, once the norm, is now the exception. The turnaround was brought into sharp relief with the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy and video of the Kennedy clan. PAGE A12 
 CELEBRATING KENNEDY
 The extended Kennedy family, accustomed to sharing their grief with a nation, gathered to celebrate the life and mourn the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy. PAGE A13 
 FAKE LETTER INQUIRY SOUGHT
 A Washington lobbying firm asked federal prosecutors to investigate a former employee who the firm says sent fake letters to members of Congress urging them to oppose climate change legislation. PAGE A14 
 Kennedy's Church A13 
 New York
 PUBLIC ADVOCATE HOPEFULS MAKE THEIR CASE IN DEBATE
 In the first debate among the four Democrats seeking the second-highest elected office in the city, Councilman Bill de Blasio said Mark Green, the public advocate from 1994 to 2001, had been too easy on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. PAGE A15 
 BAD LESSONS AT YOUTH PRISONS
 A report on violence at juvenile prisons says people in charge abused their power, leaving their wards with the impression that violence is an appropriate response to conflict. Big City, Susan Dominus. PAGE A15 
 FRUIT, BUT NOT FOR TOSSING
 The new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets have been quietly offering fans an unlikely entry in ballpark cuisine: apples, pears, bananas and other fresh fruits. PAGE A15 
 SHIFT AT TAVERN ON THE GREEN
 Tavern on the Green, the landmark restaurant in Central Park, will have a new operator: Dean J. Poll, who plans to invest $25 million in the restaurant. PAGE A17 
 Business
 SAVINGS SENT TO YOUR PHONE, NO CLIPPING REQUIRED
 Most people still cut coupons from the paper, but the popularity of coupons delivered via e-mail and text messages is growing. PAGE B1
 BILLIONS SOUGHT FROM FIRM
 Clients with money -- more than $5.5 billion in all -- invested in hedge funds controlled by Cerberus Capital Management have told the firm that they want their money back. PAGE B1 
 HOPE BEYOND A PILL FOR E.D.
 In television commercials, treating erectile dysfunction is as effortless as popping a pill. In truth, the popular medications work for about half of users. But there are other treatments. Patient Money by Lesley Alderman. PAGE B1 
 PLAN FOR NEW RATING FIRM
 Jules B. Kroll, who built a big business as an aggressive corporate sleuth, is planning to create a competitor for the tarnished credit-rating agencies. PAGE B2 
 S.E.C. Faulted on Oversight B2
 Intel Raises Its Forecast B4
 Arts
 UNDERSTANDING THE THEES AND THOUS OF SHAKESPEARE
 Theatergoers attending ''Twelfth Night'' at the Founders' Theater in Lenox, Mass., don't have to worry about understanding the dialogue. The actors do it for them. PAGE C1 
 ILLOGICAL LOVE IN ONTARIO
 The unreasoning nature of love -- and the troubles that attend it -- are on display at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival, where David Grindley's staging of ''West Side Story'' was the breakout hit. PAGE C1 
 INDIE ROCK RISES IN BROOKLYN
 The crowd thinned out before the last band at Brooklyn Bowl. By normal gig logic the best band -- Cymbals Eat Guitars -- came last. But this wasn't a normal gig. PAGE C3 
 THE ORIGIN OF THESE GENES
 ''The Human Family Tree,'' on Sunday night on the National Geographic Channel, is a stunt. But it's an enlightening one. PAGE C3 
 MASKED SLASHER IS BACK
 Rob Zombie's ''Halloween II'' -- a remake of the 1981 sequel, and a sequel to his own remake -- summarizes the plot of the original quickly, leaving him free to do what he will with the film's remainder. PAGE C6 
 Music 10 Years Old or Newer C4 
 Ardent Talk for Piano and Cello C5 
 Sports
 WILPON ADDRESSES CONCERNS MADOFF SCHEME HURT METS
 Fred Wilpon, the Mets' principal owner, said the finances of the team were not scarred by the Ponzi scheme run by Bernard L. Madoff. Wilpon said he had no intention of selling the team. PAGE D1 
 DARK HORSE LEADS BARCLAYS
 At the halfway point of The Barclays, Webb Simpson, a rookie who has never won a tournament, holds a two-stroke lead over Paul Goydos and Steve Marino. PAGE D2 
 STEINBRENNER IS SUED
 A former president of Madison Square Garden says it was his idea to create what became Yankees-run YES Network. He sued Yankee owner George Steinbrenner, seeking at least $23 million. PAGE D5 
 YANKS WALK OFF WITH A WIN
 The Yankees notched their 12th game-ending hit of the season, beating the White Sox, 5-2, on Robinson Cano's three-run homer with two outs in the 10th inning. PAGE D5 
 I.O.C. Vows to Help Vancouver D2
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A21
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); REFUGEES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); ASSASSINATION (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (64%); RELIGION (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (62%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); ETHNICITY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (89%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); CHARLIE CRIST (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); POLAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); MYANMAR (92%); IRAQ (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009



776 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2270 words

HEADLINE: Pssst! Want a Ticket? Hey, I'm Legit. Really.

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
EVERYTHING in Don Vaccaro's world is called ticket something-or-other.
 There's his software and online resale company, TicketNetwork, and Web sites like TicketLiquidator.com and TicketsPlus.com. And his trade convention, Ticket Summit. At TicketNetwork's headquarters in leafy Vernon, Conn., software engineers and search-engine strategists take turns feeding the company mascot, a cat named Ticket. (Her kittens: Stub 1 and Stub 2.)
 It's a growing, high-tech empire, but Mr. Vaccaro, burly and vigorous at 46, is well aware of his street roots. On a tour of his tchotchke-filled office one recent morning, he pointed to a desk lamp in the shape of an American Indian chief. ''That's my scalper,'' he said with a grin.
 Once infamous -- and in many places illegal -- the reselling of tickets for profit has gone mainstream. Accelerated by the Internet and changes in state laws across the country, it is now a multibillion-dollar business serving consumers who want that last-minute ticket to Taylor Swift or ''Wicked.'' 
 ''The days of scalping sounding like drug dealing in a dark alley are gone,'' said Randy Phillips, chief executive of AEG Live, whose deal for Michael Jackson's 50-night engagement in London included a partnership with a ticket reseller. ''It's all aboveboard. It's very transparent now.''
 And it's become very easy, thanks to companies like StubHub and TicketNetwork, which operate vast online marketplaces for what are essentially secondhand tickets, traded after already being sold once by an official box office. Economists call it a secondary market, and it's booming: a report by Forrester Research last year predicted that by 2012 secondary-market sales for entertainment and sports would reach $4.5 billion. 
 But scalping has also stumbled on its way to legitimacy. Controversies have broken out over access to high-demand shows, and brokers -- the term that ticket resellers prefer, though fans have been slow to accept it -- face opposition from politicians and consumer advocates who see them as economic predators. 
 ''Tickets are snapped up seemingly as soon as they go on sale, and the average consumer is forced to go to one of the ticket brokers and pay outrageous prices,'' said Edgar Dworsky, the founder of ConsumerWorld.org and a former Massachusetts assistant attorney general in consumer protection. 
 (And talk about an image problem: Is there any profession whose pop-culture representative is as questionable as Mike Damone, the scalper-villain of ''Fast Times at Ridgemont High''?)
 Last month ticket brokers gathered at a Las Vegas hotel for the fourth annual Ticket Summit, a three-day smorgasbord of products, seminars and networking organized by Mr. Vaccaro. At panels like ''Web 2.0: Apps to Expand Your Market Base'' and ''Building a Public Relations Plan'' they rubbed elbows with Internet entrepreneurs, Ph.D.'s, marketing consultants and even representatives of Broadway shows and major sports teams. 
 ''Ex-enemies are now friends,'' Mr. Vaccaro said as he darted among panels on the second day. ''It's amazing what money does to people.''
 But when one panelist addressed the crowd as ''all of you who started in the street,'' plenty of stony faces nodded in acknowledgment, and animated arguments broke out over the spread of dynamic pricing, a weapon against resellers that allows for continuous adjustment in primary ticket prices. (Ticketmaster is planning to roll out an extensive dynamic-pricing program this year, an executive said. Its pending merger with Live Nation has brokers terrified about how they might be affected.)
 The gold rush on the secondary market has expanded the once-narrow ranks of ticket brokers with all kinds of new blood: dot-commers, suburban moonlighters, ordinary fans unloading an extra pair. There is an unspoken divide between the pre-Internet, ''old-school'' brokers and the new arrivals, who may know their Web 2.0 apps but have not yet acquired the gut-level instincts of strategic pricing. 
 Harris Rosner, a veteran broker in Los Angeles whose company, V.I.P. Tickets, carries more than $5 million in inventory, he said, describes himself a ''risk arbitrager'' and has to go way back to explain how he entered the business.
 ''I started to buy and sell commodities when I was about 5 years of age,'' Mr. Rosner said. He sold used golf balls and discount bowling games, and when a grocer offered to pay him for coupons, he knew just where to turn: ''So I went and made a deal with my grandmother. I said: 'Nana, I have an opportunity for all these coupons that you cut. We can get paid for them.' '' 
 In contrast to the popular image of the ticket trader as a shadowy hustler, the life of the rank-and-file online broker can be surprisingly humdrum. In interviews several small resellers described a job not unlike that of a low-margin day trader. Each morning they scour the Web for passwords to use for special promotions on Ticketmaster, and all day they keep close watch on their secondary-exchange listings, making numerous competitive price adjustments. One New England broker, who also sells office supplies and didn't want his name used to protect both jobs, said that for this high-maintenance side gig he hopes to make $40,000 a year.
 Mr. Vaccaro seems to pride himself on bridging the generations. He got his start 30 years ago in classic Damone fashion when he snagged 20 tickets for a Jethro Tull concert at Madison Square Garden, and he built his brokerage the old-fashioned way. ''I bought and sold tickets on the street for years,'' he said. 
 Technology offered far greater prizes, however, and in 2002 he founded TicketNetwork, which offers brokers software, Web templates and access to its online ticket exchanges. Mr. Vaccaro would never be confused with Steve Jobs -- he is fond of leaving his dark shirts unbuttoned at the top, and mispronounces certain words (''amp-u-theater'') -- but he has had enviable success with his company, which now has 220 employees and will have $400 million in gross sales this year, he said.
 ''I could never satisfy my ambition in growing the ticket business as a broker,'' he said. ''Nowadays with software you can really scale your business, and being in the software business is much easier than being in the brokerage business.'' (He still owns a brokerage, Metro Entertainment, which sells through TicketNetwork.)
 Jason Berger, a New York broker and former president of the National Association of Ticket Brokers, praised Mr. Vaccaro's strategies. ''A lot of small brokers don't have the budgets to compete online, but Don has built a successful business aggregating them,'' he said. ''He's done a lot for the average, small broker.''
 Not long ago an operation like TicketNetwork would have been illegal in many states. But by the early 2000s the growth of online ticket sales and the rise of consumer trading sites like eBay and Craigslist forced a reconsideration of old scalping laws, which were largely limited to street sales. At the same time brokers and sports teams -- whose season-ticket holders wanted to be able to resell their extras legally -- began to lobby aggressively for the repeal of the laws across the country. Price caps in New York were eliminated in 2007, although that law will expire next year unless legislators extend it. 
 Some politicians are not convinced that the changes have been for the better. Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat in the New York State Assembly who favors price caps, sees the situation as an example of free-market economic theory run amok. 
 ''Atthe height of the deregulation craze right-wing ideologues and ticket brokers joined forces with the notion that we want free markets for tickets,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''You've got everybody spinning off in this wild notion, 'My God, look how much money there is in scalping.' And it broke a longstanding social contract.'' 
 Newly legalized, the market developed rapidly. Two years ago eBay bought StubHub, the largest secondary exchange, for $310 million, and a year later Ticketmaster paid $265 million for the second-largest, TicketsNow. (TicketNetwork's combined properties rank a distant third by Internet traffic, as measured by comScore.) 
 Its rise may have been helped by consumer frustration over primary sales, since every time something sells out in a few minutes -- common for popular events -- fans are effectively being trained to look elsewhere for tickets. Brokers, of course, are partly responsible for those instant sellouts: they routinely bombard Ticketmaster with orders, sometimes with the aid of ''bots,'' computer programs that evade sellers' security safeguards. But artists and theaters often share the blame by withholding large numbers of tickets from public sale, reducing the available supply.
 A broker's presence does not guarantee a high price, however. While big markups for a few performers like Bruce Springsteen and Miley Cyrus grab headlines, the majority of concerts on the secondary market have much lower demand -- and therefore lower prices. Savvy consumers can benefit when brokers overestimate a show's popularity and put their inventory on clearance prices. In its report Forrester found that 40 percent of tickets on the online secondary market sold for face value or less.
 David Kronstat, a 43-year-old music fan in New Jersey, said he hasn't placed a Ticketmaster order in years ''because of how convoluted the whole ticket-buying process has come.'' Instead he scours Craigslist, trying to avoid brokers by looking for telltale signs of ordinary Joes motivated to sell. ''There's always some guy who bought four tickets and can only use two, or can't get a baby sitter,'' he said. (When told about those lines, one broker said, ''That's all stuff that I write on Craigslist.'')
 To reach the widest potential market most brokers list their tickets on exchanges like StubHub, TicketsNow and TicketNetwork. Special software is needed to do that efficiently, and Mr. Vaccaro's is particularly attractive to the little guys because of one ingenious feature: it allows them to borrow one another's listings for their own Web sites, advertising what appear to be huge pools of tickets. As a result hundreds of sites are all essentially offering the same seats.
 When brokers use the TicketNetwork software, whoever makes the sale gets a commission, even if another party fills the order. This can be great for brokers adept at drawing Web traffic. But it can confuse consumers, who don't always know whom they are buying from until their transaction has been completed. 
 Mr. Vaccaro's various brands and companies are another complex web. In addition to the software and sales exchanges, he has a trade group, the Better Ticketing Association, and a news site, TicketNews.com, which covers the industry but also runs brazenly biased stories like ''Bruce Springsteen tickets available at bargain prices on TicketNetwork.'' A spokeswoman recently distributed an optimistic report on the secondary market by what appeared to be a third party, the Ticketing & Entertainment Research Group; its four authors all work for Mr. Vaccaro. 
 When asked about conflicts of interest, Mr. Vaccaro said: ''Anyone who criticizes TicketNews because it's owned by TicketNetwork, it's a fair criticism. I would criticize Ticketmaster's publication Live Daily on the same basis.'' 
 Last year TicketNetwork was sued by the attorney general of Arkansas for listing tickets to a Miley Cyrus concert before they officially went on sale. A similar suit was filed this year in New Jersey over Bruce Springsteen tickets. TicketNetwork said it is cooperating in both cases, but a spokesman for the Arkansas attorney said, ''We could use some more cooperation.''
 Some artists, who think resellers unfairly profit from their work, are using tactics to thwart them and collect on the full-market value of their tickets. One is to charge more for the best seats. Another is to eliminate the ticket: For her tour that begins next month Ms. Cyrus is using paperless ticketing, which requires buyers to have photo identification to be admitted. (In an article on TicketNews.com, Mr. Vaccaro was quoted as calling this ''a career-ending situation'' for Ms. Cyrus.)
 Another potential hazard is federal legislation. After a scandal in February when Bruce Springsteen fans were pointed to TicketsNow -- Ticketmaster's resale exchange -- while face-value tickets were still available, bills were proposed in Congress by Rep. William Pascrell Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, that would create 48-hour waiting periods before tickets could be resold.
 And then there is the big question of whether in the long haul consumers will place their trust in scalpers, demonized for generations as petty criminals.
 When asked if every transaction on TicketNetwork is legitimate, Mr. Vaccaro said, ''Absolutely.'' TicketNetwork, like StubHub, TicketsNow and other services, guarantees the authenticity of the tickets it sells, a claim corroborated by brokers who say they have had to refund tickets for even minor errors in listings.
 Then, with a wheezy chuckle, Mr. Vaccaro remembered the speech he gave at the first Ticket Summit.
 ''I know that you've all heard stories,'' he recalled saying, ''about box-office managers getting cash payoffs, primary ticket outlets selling their tickets directly to brokers, managers selling their tickets to brokers. And I just want to dispel those rumors right now by confirming that they're all true. This is the way that it was. 
 ''But I think it's getting better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scalpers, top, outside a 2007 Dweezil Zappa concert at the Fillmore Auditorium in Denver. Center left, the line in March for tickets to Michael Jackson's concerts at the 02 Arena in London. Center right, Miley Cyrus in a June concert at the Wadsworth Theater in Los Angeles. Above, Don Vaccaro in his Connecticut office.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES FOR EGPAF)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AR14) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DOMINIC BUGATTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CATS (76%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (59%); TAYLOR SWIFT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



777 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Eat Your Peas. Or Don't. Whatever.

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI. 
Frank Bruni is the author of a new memoir, ''Born Round: The Secret History of a Full-Time Eater.''

 BODY:
The boy sneaks food. I've seen him. His appetite is formidable, and he knowingly eats more than he should or must, to the steady concern and occasional consternation of his parents.
 Sometimes they keep count: ''How many pretzels?'' Sometimes they vainly suggest an apple instead. Often they look away, not wanting to aggravate an eating-related anxiety that they can already sense in him on the cusp of adolescence.
 The girl treats food warily. Edging into adulthood, she worries about what too many French fries -- what any French fries -- could do to her, and monitors her waistline even though her own parents have never exhorted her to. Does she monitor it too closely and joylessly? Can parents prevent that? They wonder. So do I.
 Neither of these children, with whom I interact occasionally, comes close to being a statistic or case study. He isn't obese; she isn't anorexic. 
 But they represent a larger group of young people between those widely publicized (and much more complicated) extremes. And they speak to a subtler parental challenge: how to coach children away from unhealthy eating without sowing panic; how to make them conscious of their intake without making them too self-conscious about its consequences.
 Over recent years, worry about what and how much children eat has intensified, in part because of the regular references to childhood obesity as an epidemic. And right now, as children head back to school, where they graze beyond the gaze of parents, potentially dangerous eating habits are getting fresh attention.
 School cafeterias and vending areas have become ground zero in the battle against overweight and poorly nourished children; from coast to coast this fall, students will encounter fewer sugary soft drinks, fewer fried foods, class birthday parties without cupcakes and class bake sales with calorie-reduced brownies.
 That may help. But it's just one piece of a puzzle that health experts and concerned parents are still sorting out. Conflicting information about the fiercest culprits in child weight gain abounds. Beyond genes, which obviously play a fundamental role, is soda pop a major factor? What about too little sleep?
 There are hundreds of studies and thousands of opinions, and Tom Baranowski, a professor of pediatric nutrition at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, says they're inconclusive. He has reviewed research suggesting that there are viral prompts for childhood obesity and research suggesting that children fond of fruits and vegetables aren't any less heavy than those mad for Mountain Dew.
 Dr. Baranowski's verdict? ''A lot more work needs to be done.'' 
 Diet, it seems, is a dirty word. A Stanford University study found that a father's projected attention to and remarks about a daughter's weight may increase her risk of eating disorders. A University of Minnesota study found that children whose parents encouraged diets were significantly more likely to remain overweight than those whose parents didn't.
 Cynthia M. Bulik, the director of the University of North Carolina Eating Disorders Program, explained that ''diet'' implies deprivation, ''and deprivation goes into that whole mindset that, 'I deserve something when this is over, and this is short term.' And it can't be. It's got to roll right into a lifestyle.''
 Those words ring true for me. As a fat boy who ate expansively and compulsively, I went on the first of many strict diets at age 8 -- and thereby commenced decades of untenable regimens and compensatory pig-outs, of binging and purging.
 But my outsize hunger seemed flat-out chromosomal, and my insecurity about it predated those early weight-loss schemes. Should my parents have forbidden them? What's the best course for today's parent, in a society where fast-food come-ons drown out Alice Waters, and models no thicker than swizzle sticks still rule fashion magazines?
 ''We get nutrition advice, but that's not the same as eating advice,'' said Rebecca Saidenberg, a Manhattan mother of a 16-year-old girl, referring to child-rearing tips. She said that as her daughter went through puberty, she worked particularly hard to encourage healthy habits -- balanced meals, restrained portions -- in the hopes of minimizing the chances of a weight problem that might follow her daughter through life.
 At the same time, Ms. Saidenberg wanted to push back against ''a trend of treating food like medicine.''
 ''I don't like that,'' she said. ''There are a lot of psychological pleasures that come from sitting at a table and enjoying a meal.'' She doesn't want her daughter deprived of those.
 So she didn't despair when the teenager recently returned from a summer trip to Italy during which, it was clear, the joys of gelato were fully explored. But she did get herself and her daughter a membership at a local gym, where they go together.
 In my conversations with Ms. Saidenberg and other parents, I was struck by just how much thought they had given to coaxing their children toward sensible eating and away from extreme indulgence or self-denial. They clearly saw that as a parental responsibility akin to giving a child a first-rate education.
 But their prescriptions and beliefs diverged, illustrating the elusiveness of a ready consensus about what's most effective.
 Joan Yamini, a mother of one in Austin, Tex., said it was important not to have unhealthy foods around the house, but Andrew Segal, a father of three in Glen Ridge, N.J., said that children who can't find cookies, ice cream and similar snacks at home can always find them elsewhere -- and probably will.
 Every parent fretted over the right language to use with children.
 Janis Azarela, a mother of three in Sudbury, Mass., recalled the upset her husband caused a few weeks ago when he questioned their 16-year-old daughter's decision to eat ice cream immediately following a three-mile run.
 ''He asked because she'd just worked so hard to run and be healthy -- why not make a healthier choice?'' Ms. Azarela recalled. ''And she said, 'Dad, are you calling me fat?' '' The teenager abandoned the ice cream, stomped out of the kitchen and didn't speak to him for a good long while.
 Ms. Azarela said that her daughter is, in fact, slim, and gravitates naturally toward less fattening foods. Her 7-year-old son, on the other hand, has the fiercest sweet tooth in the brood. A budding problem? Time will tell, and meanwhile she has vowed to ''keep reintroducing foods, because palates change so quickly.''
 That's consistent with advice from diet and nutrition experts, who agree, for the most part, on a few prudent strategies.
 They say parents can and should encourage sensible eating and vigorous physical activity by engaging in both themselves; children are likely to imitate those behaviors. 
 Whether parents allow junk food or not, they should make sure healthier alternatives are even more available -- and should promote them. They should also make time for family dinners, the nutritional content of which they can monitor more carefully than they can a quick meal in an economical restaurant.
 And by actually involving children in the shopping for, and cooking of, meals, some parents have successfully given them a consciousness about food -- and a way to think about it -- that guards against an abuse or disregard of it.When it comes to overeaters who clearly thrill to that gluttony, it's vital for parents to try to find some replacement activity -- a hobby, say -- that affords similar emotional gratification.
 ''Food lights some people up more than it lights other people up,'' Dr. Bulik said. ''We're not born the same.''
 I see that in the boy and girl. If they were merely emulating their parents, he'd be the measured eater and she the exultant one. That the opposite is true underscores the mysteries of appetite -- and the tricky task parents face in trying to regulate it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Big Question: What role should parents play in what children eat?(PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN KASMAUSKI/CORBIS)(pg. WK1)
 Role Models: Diet and nutrition experts say children are likely to imitate parents who eat sensibly and exercise.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. WK6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (89%); EATING DISORDERS (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (88%); SOFT DRINKS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DIETING (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NUTRITION (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); CASE STUDIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (51%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



778 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: Runaway Health Costs

 BODY:
Last week, budget offices of the White House and Congress increased their projection of federal deficits over the next decade. The White House argued that an overhaul of the health care system is essential because the rising deficit ''is driven primarily by escalating health care costs.''
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates that spending on Medicare and Medicaid -- driven by the aging population and the rapid growth of per capita health care costs -- will account for most of the projected growth in primary federal spending for the next 25 years. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: percent of the gross domestic product (Source: Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); BUDGET FORECASTS (88%); MEDICARE (88%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (87%); AGING TRENDS (85%); MEDICAID (56%); AGING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



779 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Using 'Free' To Turn A Profit

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
GIVING away a product has always been a great marketing concept. Even an unsavvy consumer can see a benefit in snatching free products. Free has also become a mantra for business gurus who advocate giving Web start-ups a shot at fast growth by bringing the price of most of their wares to zero. 
 But as a revenue generator, free can come up short. Sure, it attracts customers, but the challenge is to find someone to pay for it. Although thousands of businesses offer free services online -- two of the biggest are the Flickr photo service from Yahoo and YouTube from Google -- few can claim to be profitable. (Analysts say Flickr and YouTube are not.) While free is an enticing proposition, it is very hard to make it work. 
 Indeed, in just the last few weeks, eBay has been looking to shed Skype, the free Internet phone call service. And Sampa, a personal Web site creation service started by former Microsoft executives, folded. 
 Advertising was always the easy answer for making free pay. But that rarely covered expenses even before a glut of advertising space and a severe recession cut the revenue stream. 
 The fallback position is charging a few customers for premium service, in the hope that revenue from dedicated users will cover everyone else. A number of sites, like Flickr, do this.
 Fred Wilson, the New York venture capitalist, codified this model and popularized a term for it: freemium. And he continues to receive an enthusiastic reception to the idea on his blog, A VC. 
 But the question remains. Just how does it work? Phil Libin, the chief executive of Evernote, a start-up in Mountain View, Calif., was kind enough to give me a tour of his privately held company's financials to reveal the mystery.
 The company gives away a Web application that saves data you accumulate. You can use it to keep a wide range of information: meeting notes and voice memos, for example, or even photographs of wines consumed or recipes found in magazines. The information is stored on the company's computers so all the data can be synchronized on every computer the customer uses -- and on smartphones as well. 
 Snap a picture of a business card with a smartphone like a Palm Pre or an iPhone and it shows up on the phone's Evernote app -- as well as on the Dell back at the office. It is searchable, right down to words in photographs. So if you type in ''Samsung,'' for example, every business card from that company pops up.
 ''It is a universal memory drawer,'' says Mr. Libin, who has run and sold two other start-ups.
 Evernote, of course, is free. That's important because the company, which does no advertising, needs to acquire customers as cheaply as possible. ''Our product is our marketing,'' Mr. Libin says. 
 In 18 months, 1.4 million people have tried the service. An additional 4,500 try it each day.
 ''Free is not a loss leader,'' he says. ''If we can get a small percentage of users to pay we start to make money.''
 How many times has a venture capitalist heard that? But Mr. Libin showed that the magic is not only that it takes just a small percentage of customers to turn red ink into black, but also that the longer they remain customers, the more profitable they become.
 About 75 percent of the customers walk away within the first four months. That's not worrisome, because the revenue from Evernote's 500,000 active users is growing faster than the growth in the customer base. How? Customers discover that they need more than the basic storage space or want some extra features, like the ability to scan PDF documents for a particular word. Evernote charges them $5 a month or $45 a year for these and other benefits. 
 Mr. Libin studied the behavior of the earliest adopters and found that the longer customers used the service, the more likely they were to start paying for it. About 0.5 percent convert to paying customers in the first month. But after about a year, 4 percent have converted. (He says he thinks the figure will top out at about 22 percent.)
 It makes sense. The shoebox of data is more valuable to the customer as it becomes larger. In addition, compelling uses -- like photographing those business cards -- quickly eat up the monthly allotment of memory, inducing a person to start paying. The longer the customer stays, the more valuable he becomes.
 The company gets about 3 cents of revenue for each active user in the first month of use, but after a year that same cohort of customers is providing 35 cents each.
 EVERNOTE made $79,000 from paying customers in July, Mr. Libin says.
 That's not enough to cover the cost of the engineers who design new features and the additional servers to store all the added data. But the cost of staffing doesn't rise exponentially as more customers join, and the cost of adding storage declines because computing power keeps getting cheaper. (Electricity costs go up, but that is not a budget killer.) 
 The variable cost for each active user was about 50 cents a month when the company started, but has been dropping along a curve to 9 cents a month. By January 2011, Mr. Libin projects, the company will break even.
 Mr. Libin's model of freemium won't work for every company. But it certainly could work for other companies who can retain customer loyalty and make their service more valuable over time while driving down costs. 
 It has convinced him and his investors that giving away the store is the right plan. ''We are committed to being free,'' Mr. Libin says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Phil Libin, the chief executive of Evernote, a free electronic storage box, says it works on many platforms, including smartphones like those below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



780 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Building a Profile For City Center: Dance Mecca

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
STANDING backstage at City Center last year Arlene Shuler affectionately touched one of the walls covered with the signatures of generations of performers. ''I don't know how we are going to deal with this when we renovate,'' she said. ''It's so much a part of the building's history.''
 Since 2003 Ms. Shuler has been president and chief executive of City Center, the storied New York theater that was the first home of New York City Ballet and became essentially a rental space for dance companies after City Ballet departed for Lincoln Center. But she is also part of the theater's dance history: she first performed there at 13, as Clara in Balanchine's ''Nutcracker,'' and later danced there with the Joffrey Ballet. 
 ''When I got this job, it felt like coming home,'' she said.
 A year after her arrival she effectively altered the image of that home with one masterstroke: Fall for Dance, an annual smorgasbord of dance companies of all types, in a variety of programs, with every ticket costing $10. 
 The festival has supplemented the theater's regular seasons by Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, American Ballet Theater and the Paul Taylor Dance Company, in addition to a changing roster of other troupes. And Ms. Shuler has kept and expanded Encores!, the series of semi-staged musical theater productions started by her predecessor, Judith Daykin. 
 But Fall for Dance has redefined the theater's identity. Since its first incarnation the festival has been a phenomenon, with lines for tickets going around City Center's midtown block; all 2,700 seats selling out for almost every performance; and strikingly youthful audiences. (This year's edition opens on Sept. 22.) The idea has been copied in London; Orange County, Calif.; and St. Louis. The impact on the dance world has been considerable, despite criticism that the programs are overly safe, excluding much current contemporary dance.
 The Capezio Ballet Makers Dance Foundation cited the festival -- along with Ms. Shuler's other professional accomplishments -- last month when it announced that it was awarding her its annual prize for significant contributions to American dance. (The award's past recipients include luminaries like Alvin Ailey and Susan Farrell.) 
 And Fall for Dance's very public success has enabled Ms. Shuler to pursue other ventures, notably a partnership with Sadler's Wells Theater in London that has led to several co-productions, as well as joint residencies for Christopher Wheeldon's Morphoses company. (Another partnership, with Carnegie Hall, has been less productve, although Ms. Shuler says the organizations continue to talk about projects.) 
 ''Arlene has managed to get City Center back to a place dance audiences want to go,'' said Alistair Spalding, the artistic director and chief executive of Sadler's Wells. ''By taking control over the program rather than just being a rental situation, she has built a profile for the theater, so that it's not just a place that people hire to promote their own identities. Having co-promoted there, I know how high the costs are and how difficult it is. Her fund-raising skills have made it all possible.''
 Ms. Shuler, a petite blonde who would not reveal her age, learned those skills from a number of sources. Originally from Cleveland, she trained at the School of American Ballet, and at 17 joined the Joffrey Ballet, a company known for its eclectic repertory and creative atmosphere. Its influence was indelible, she said, but after four years she left the company, having realized that she would never be a great dancer.
 ''Arlene had that strategic approach even when she was younger,'' said Dermot Burke, who danced with her at Joffrey and is now the artistic director of the Dayton Ballet. ''It was apparent early on that she had bigger fish to fry.''
 Ms. Shuler received her bachelor's degree and law degree from Columbia University, joined the National Endowment for the Arts as the administrator of its dance program then went to work for Representative Ted Weiss, Democrat of New York, who was on the committee overseeing the endowment. 
 After two years she returned to New York, first as head of Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts, and later becoming vice president for planning and development at Lincoln Center. In 1998, midway through her 11-year tenure there, her husband, Nigel Redden, was appointed director of the Lincon Center Festival, a position he still holds. (Ms. Shuler said there were no power-couple discussions in the kitchen. ''We don't talk about programming very often,'' she said firmly. ''Our work lives are very different.'') 
 Like every other theater administrator Ms. Shuler is facing a grim economic environment, compounded by losses among board members from Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme. The biggest challenge on her immediate horizon, she said, is raising the money to keep future Fall for Dance tickets $10. The festival relies entirely on fund-raising to cover its $1.5 million budget. 
 Additional hurdles lie ahead too, notably putting into effect a long-delayed renovation plan for the theater in a way that will not affect its regular occupants. (No final timetable has been released, and this year Ballet Theater, worried about City Center's shifting renovation plans, arranged to appear at Avery Fisher Hall.) ''There is no question that I am worried about how the economy will impact us and how it will inhibit our ability to expand the programming,'' Ms. Shuler said.
 Others are confident of Ms. Shuler's abilities to find a means and a way. ''When you talk to her,'' Mr. Spalding said, ''you can see her thinking: 'I know where I can get some money from. Now let's come up with a really good idea.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about Arlene Shuler, the president and chief executive of City Center and recipient of a Capezio Ballet Makers Dance Foundation award, misstated the given name of a previous award recipient. She is Suzanne Farrell, not Susan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Right top, Arlene Shuler, president of City Center, whose Fall for Dance Festival, a smorgasbord of dance with every ticket costing $10, has altered the theater's image
right, members of Morphoses/The Wheeldon Company, a guest resident troupe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH MORAN)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE COMPANIES (93%); DANCE (93%); BALLET (91%); THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CITIES (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MUSIC (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



781 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: For Now, It's All Yours

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
LESLEY REY was carrying two mortgages when her income from selling airplanes took a dive last fall. She has a one-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side and a house in Westchester.
 ''You feel a little defeated by the economy,'' she said. ''But you have to make sacrifices.'' 
 She couldn't sell the house in Westchester because she owns it with her sister, and she couldn't bear to part with her home on the Upper West Side.
 ''It's just too perfect,'' she said. 
 At the suggestion of the real estate broker who sold her the apartment, Carol Halt, who now works at Barak Realty, she decided to rent it out. And she decided to leave it furnished.
 In this economy, many an apartment has become unaffordable as jobs disappear and income shrinks. But if your home is a place you love too much to sell, the best way to hang on to it may be to entrust it to somebody else for a while.
 Leaving the furniture behind can be a good way to make it through tough financial times -- the owner doesn't have to spend money on storage and the tenant does not have to pay for furniture.
 According to Halstead Property, the number of furnished apartments in its database -- which includes rentals by co-op and condo owners, as well as sublets by other renters -- jumped by more than 50 percent from the first six months of 2008 to the same period this year. 
 ''Certainly, part of that increase is due to inventory that was on the market for sale that shifted to the rental market,'' said Fritz Frigan, the executive director of sales and leasing at Halstead. 
 There's nothing like an economic landslide to help a person move past the disquieting idea of sharing personal belongings with a stranger. 
 Ms. Rey remembers the January evening when her tenant arrived as an unnerving experience.
 ''This is really weird!'' she recalled saying to the man, whom she had found on Craigslist. ''I don't even know you, and I'm leaving my apartment in your hands.''
 The apartment, yes. And also the books, the candles, the rugs, even the standing mixer in the kitchen. ''All of that stayed,'' she said. ''I just took down my photos.''
 The arrangement, for $3,000 a month, went well, though Ms. Rey found the month-to-month renewal process frustrating. When her first tenant cleared out in May, friends of her brother signed a one-month lease, and she started looking for her next tenant. She returned to Craigslist for a replacement. This time, her luck was not so good. 
 She rented the place to a dancer who agreed to stay for the summer. But at the beginning of August, the young woman moved out without paying for most of July. She still owes Ms. Rey $2,000.
 So Ms. Rey, who now sells golf memberships at a country club, is again in the market for a tenant. In light of falling rents, she is asking $2,600 for her apartment, $400 less than she received in the winter. 
 She has turned the transaction over to a broker, Carla Deleon at Halstead, who she hopes will protect her from another deadbeat tenant. In exchange for the broker fee, Ms. Deleon will take care of credit checks and employment verification, as well as oversee the application to the condominium board for permission to rent. 
 Ms. Rey says she skipped that step previously because she was in financial straits and needed to find a way to make ends meet quickly. 
 Ms. Deleon, who handles both sales and rentals at Halstead, does not work on many furnished rentals. ''They're really hard to rent,'' she said. ''People have their tastes, and they want to feel at home when they walk in. Sometimes they say no because they don't like the furniture.''
 Gary Malin, the president of the Citi Habitats, a New York brokerage, says few brokers spend much time on sublets, furnished or otherwise. Many of those transactions are conducted online on sites like Craigslist and sublet.com.
 ''It's not as lucrative,'' he said. ''A lot of owners don't price their apartments appropriately, and some want to do things outside of their board's approval.''
 Owners of both condos and co-ops must get board approval to rent their apartments; policies vary from building to building. 
 Randi Miller has no intention of selling the co-op apartment on the Upper East Side where she has lived for seven years. ''I saw the view and I said, 'This is my apartment,' '' she recalled. ''And I've lived here happily ever since.'' 
 But Ms. Miller, a lawyer, lost her job last fall and has had a difficult time finding work.
 ''I was initially very depressed and stressed out,'' she said. ''Then I realized that it was an opportunity to take time to explore other things, and do things that I would never leave a permanent job to do.'' 
 In the spring, she spent two months in Nepal, volunteering at the Nepal Orphans Home. She has since joined its board of advisers. 
 Now she plans to rent out her home in New York -- fully furnished -- for at least a year, so she can live and work abroad. 
 She has listed her one-bedroom with David Hench at Halstead for $2,600 a month. She says this figure is as low as she can go -- it is already less money than she needs to break even after the mortgage and maintenance payments.
 ''I don't want to rent it at any price,'' she said. ''I need to rent it at a price that'll help me.'' 
 But the rental market has softened considerably in the last year. 
 Farnoosh Torabi's studio apartment on West 80th Street has been listed for rent since the first week of July, but she has yet to receive a nibble. Earlier this month, she decided that she would pay the broker fee herself. 
 ''I feel like listing it as a no-fee is going to help it a lot,'' she said. ''Whoever is looking at a studio doesn't have a huge budget.''
 In addition to listing and showing the apartment, her broker will also guide potential renters through the condo board approval process.
 Ms. Torabi, 29, is an author and a financial adviser on a reality television show, ''The Bank of Mom and Dad,'' which will have its debut this fall. She bought the condo apartment five years ago. She loves it, she says, and wants to keep it as a pied-a-terre -- she anticipates a move to the suburbs when she's ready to have a family. 
 But right now Ms. Torabi needs to make room for her boyfriend, who visits regularly from Philadelphia. So she has rented a one-bedroom apartment 10 blocks away and is offering the studio for $2,300 a month furnished, or $2,200 unfurnished. 
 ''I hope it rents furnished,'' she said. ''I'm not looking forward to hiring movers to do something with this stuff or to having a fire sale. I also like the way I've decorated the place. If it ends up being a place that I keep for the long term, I wouldn't want to change anything.''
 Well, she may take the pictures off the walls.
 ''That's my taste,'' Ms. Torabi said. ''I'm not going to insist that they stay. But I'm leaving my plates and my utensils, some of my stemware.'' 
 Then she utters her version of the landlord's prayer: ''I take a lot of pride of ownership. I just hope that whoever lives here appreciates the last five years of thought and reconstruction that's gone into this studio. I just hope they will be nice to my apartment.'' 
 From a renter's perspective, there is at least one advantage to renting a furnished apartment from an individual: the price. Privately owned apartments tend to be much less expensive than other options. 
 New York City has several extended-stay hotels that offer furnished apartments, the bulk of which are in Midtown. These often have full kitchens and hotel-style services like same-day laundry, and you can stay for a few nights or a few months. But a one-bedroom in one of these places runs about $6,000 per month, adjusted downward for longer stays. And for many subtenants, price is of paramount importance.
 ''The goal, of course, is to do it for free,'' said Tony Stubblebine, 31, who has in the past swapped his California home for an apartment on the Upper West Side. 
 This summer he and his girlfriend, Sarah Milstein, 40, sublet in New York -- two months at an apartment in the West Village and two weeks in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. During that time, they sublet their Bay Area home to offset costs. 
 Both of the places rented by Ms. Milstein and Mr. Stubblebine were furnished, and sublet from other renters. Neither minded if Eggs, their dog, came, too.
 Mr. Stubblebine said the potential awkwardness of being surrounded by another person's belongings was mitigated by their busy social and professional lives. 
 ''Except for the time when we're on our laptops, we're mostly out of the house,'' said Mr. Stubblebine, who runs a social networking software company. Ms. Milstein is a journalist, consultant and graduate student.
 ''At home in California,'' he said, ''we like to cook, so the kitchen is very organized according to our methods. At the places we've stayed here, it'd be almost impossible to cook. But it's not really a problem; we tend to eat out.''
 The couple came across both of their New York sublets on Craigslist. One thing they found challenging was that most ads were posted very close to the move-in date. 
 ''I'm a planner,'' Ms. Milstein said. ''I would like to have everything booked a month or two months ahead.''
 Before they committed to the West Village sublet, Ms. Milstein and Mr. Stubblebine had a friend in New York check it out. 
 Others, by necessity or by choice, take care of the whole process online. 
 Kati Gafney, 25, is subletting her one-bedroom rental apartment in Washington Heights for around $1,000 a month while she is in Nicaragua for three months this fall. 
 She and her subtenant, a graduate student from Toronto, will not meet before he moves in. They found one another on Craigslist, vetted each other on Facebook, and e-mailed back and forth a sublet agreement that Ms. Gafney found online. Ms. Gafney's dog, Tiger, will be staying with a neighbor, but the student agreed, sight unseen, to feed her gecko, Mr. Fox, a meal of crickets every two weeks.
 Landlord and tenant may end up as roommates for two or three weeks when Ms. Gafney returns, one person in the living room, the other in the bedroom. 
 Ms. Gafney isn't worried about sharing her apartment with a stranger -- the arrangement was her idea. But just in case, she amended the sublet agreement to say that she can evict him with 72 hours' notice after Dec. 1. 
 In the meantime, Ms. Gafney's requests are simple: Don't burn the place down, pay the rent and don't break the washing machine. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE NEW LANDLORDS: Three who are renting out loved apartments, clockwise from top left: Randi Miller is leaving the country for a year
Farnoosh Torabi is moving but wants to hold on to her once and future pied-a-terre
and Lesley Rey does not wish to carry two mortgages.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT, DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE1)
TEMPORARILY OURS: Sarah Milstein, Tony Stubblebine and Eggs spent the summer in two sublets in New York. Kati Gafney is subletting her Washington Heights apartment. Tiger is going to friends
 her subletter will tend her gecko.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON /THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



782 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Burton P. Resnick

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Resnick, 72, is the chairman and chief executive of Jack Resnick & Sons, founded by his father in 1928. The company owns and manages more than five million square feet of commercial space along with more than 1,500 apartments.
 Q.Could you tell me about your latest project or deal? 
 A. The last deal we did was a relatively major deal in Hudson Square, at 250 Hudson Street. It's a building we just rehabbed from a printing building to an office building. We completed the conversion in the last three months. 
 The major tenants are Daniel Edelman, the largest privately owned public relations firm in the country, and Lowe & Partners, the advertising firm; and then we've got Corbis, the company that sells pictures. We had those tenants lined up, and now we have three and a half more floors to go. We have rents in the $40-a-square-foot range.
 Q.Would rents have been a lot higher two or three years ago?
 A. Maybe just 10 percent or 5 percent more.
 Q.So where are the best deals right now for commercial tenants?
 A. There are phenomenal deals, but I don't believe those phenomenal deals are in empty new space direct from landlords. The phenomenal deals are primarily in the sublet market. 
 Q.Are tenants opting for longer leases to lock in good rates?
 A. No, I don't think so. I think a lot of these tenants don't know if they've hit bottom and if there is a bottom. We haven't found a heck of a lot of action going on. 
 The size of the leases depends on the size of the tenant. We've got a building next door that is mostly doctors, a medical building, that averages three-year leases to less than 10 years. This building, here on East 59th Street, is a 10-year minimum. 
 Q.Do you think the New York market will come back faster than those in the rest of the country?
 A. We have a real estate problem here in New York and throughout the big cities, but it pales in comparison to the problems that the country has as far as manufacturing is concerned and the overall unemployment rate.
 We are still better than almost any other city in the United States. I think we have a more diverse population and a more diverse mix of industry. But our taxes are too high and expenses are too high. 
 Hopefully, we'll have unemployment under control. Interest rates historically have never been lower. You've got to be a cockeyed optimist to be in the real estate business, because if you're not, then get out of New York. 
 I graduated college in 1956. There was a recession-depression in the '50s. There were two in the '60s, two in the '70s, two or three in the '80s. The '90s were a disaster. Is this the worst? I think my father and mother lived through the worst, in 1929. 
 Q.Is the government doing enough to turn things around, especially on the lending side?
 A. What else could they do?
 They have flooded the whole system in dollars. The government's job is to protect the economy and to protect the taxpayer. I think so far they have done a good job. You've got to be very happy Obama has done as great a job as he has done with the people that he has there. 
 Q.Your company is called Resnick and Sons -- but only one of your three sons remains in your business. Are you disappointed?
 A. I never held a gun to my children's head, saying they had to stay in the business. I still have my son Jonathan here. He's the president. Our son Peter left just before Scott left to start his own development company. After 10 years in real estate, Peter went back to Columbia Graduate School of Business and he got his M.B.A. He's trying to do something with the environment. Scott and I talk business occasionally.
 Q.Do you see yourself ever leaving the company to retire?
 A.Retirement in my opinion is a death penalty. I've worked four days a week, outside of vacations, for a long time. I'm not here Fridays, so if you want a Resnick, you can find my son Jonathan. I've been here since 1956.
 Q.Your family invested with Bernard L. Madoff. How did you know him?
 A. We sat on the board of Yeshiva University together, because I was chairman of the board of Albert Einstein Medicine for about 18 years, and I'm chairman emeritus now. Einstein is one of the schools of Yeshiva. 
 It was a small portion of my wife's and my foundation that was lost. I'm still giving away as much as -- if not more than -- we have been giving away in the past, and I intend to give away more in the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Resnick, 72, is the chairman and chief executive of Jack Resnick & Sons, founded by his father in 1928. The company owns and manages more than five million square feet of commercial space along with more than 1,500 apartments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RECESSION (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%)

COMPANY: LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



783 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Another City Option: Stepping Up Enforcement

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
When is an increase in fees not a fee increase? When it's an energetic attempt to collect a fee that's already on the books. 
 New York City plans to install cameras at 50 more intersections this fiscal year, allowing officials to issue enough additional traffic summonses to generate millions of dollars in fines. The city says the primary motivation for adding the cameras is public safety, a point important to any pedestrian who has ever been menaced by a car hurtling through a red light. But the budget signed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg also acknowledges that it will be a revenue raiser, bringing in an additional $17.2 million the first year, and diminishing returns thereafter. 
 ''I think their experience has been that once people figure out where the cameras are, they stop going through the red lights,'' said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the city's Independent Budget Office.
 The $17 million may seem like small change in a $61 billion city budget that also relied on a sales tax increase, a reduction in the city's workforce and increases in various other taxes to deal with the recession. Still, taken together with other stepped-up enforcement -- the city budget also projects increased revenue from fines for illegal parking and noise violations -- the red-light cameras should help.
 As Marcia Van Wagner, deputy comptroller for the budget, put it, ''Increased enforcement is one of those areas where a government can raise revenue and the public gets something in return.'' DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (77%); SALES TAX (75%); PARKING OFFENSES (71%); NOISE POLLUTION (71%); LABOR FORCE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



784 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Tide Turning, Florida Sees Itself Shrink

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Fla. 

 BODY:
The smiling couple barreling ahead on the cover of Liberty magazine in 1926 knew exactly where to go. ''Florida or Bust,'' said the white paint on the car doors. ''Four wheels, no brakes.''
 So it has been for a century, as Florida welcomed thousands of newcomers every week, year after year, becoming the nation's fourth-most-populous state with about 16 million people in 2000. 
 Imagine the shock, then, to discover that traffic is now heading the other way. That's right, the Sunshine State is shrinking. 
 Choked by a record level of foreclosures and unemployment, along with a helping of disillusionment, the state's population declined by 58,000 people from April 2008 to April 2009, according to the University of Florida's Bureau of Economic and Business Research. Except for the years around World Wars I and II, it was the state's first population loss since at least 1900. 
 ''It's dramatic,'' said Stanley K. Smith, an economics professor at the University of Florida who compiled the report. ''You have a state that was booming and has been a leader in population growth for the last 100 years that suddenly has seen a substantial shift.'' 
 The loss is more than a data point. Growth gave Florida its notorious flip-flop and flower-print swagger. Life could be carefree under the sun because, as a famous state tourism advertisement put it in 1986, ''The rules are different here.'' 
 But what if they are not? Or if those Florida rules -- an approach that made growth paramount in the state's sales pitch, self-image and revenue structure -- no longer apply? 
 ''It's got to be a real psychological blow,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution who predicted that census data in December would confirm the findings. ''I don't know if you can take a whole state to a psychiatrist, but the whole Florida economy was based on migration flows.''
 Recall what once passed for normal. Florida grew from 2.8 million people in 1950 to 6.9 million in 1970, and by about three million people each decade after that. Even during stagflation in the '70s, Florida added about 200,000 people a year. More recently, from 2004 to 2006, Florida added about 1,100 people a day, as housing construction's proportion of the state economy grew to twice the national average. 
 Now consider Broward County in 2009. The county, between Miami and Palm Beach, was one of the first areas to shrink -- losing 21,117 people from April 2007 to April 2009, according to University of Florida data -- and its experience offers a glimpse of what could be on the way elsewhere. 
 Hollywood, in particular, embodies what the Sunshine State was and might become. It was founded in the 1920s as ''the dream city of Florida'' by a transplant from Washington State named Joseph Young who built ranch-style homes. After growing predictably -- from 22,978 people in 1955 to 139,357 by 2000 -- Hollywood has lost 1,562 people over the past year, according to the University of Florida count. 
 That amounts to only 1 percent, roughly in line with the rest of the county, but residents say their rhythms have already changed. Here and in other places adapting to the end of double-digit growth, the days include less noise, work and spontaneity, and more goodbyes, doubts and fears of the future. It is, by all accounts, a life lived under capacity. 
 Sandra Woodward, 25, grew up here, happy and proud. A secretary with dreams of working in education, she said eight houses on her block are in foreclosure. She knows 20 families who have left Florida in the last two years. 
 On Monday, she waited for her son to finish his first day of kindergarten at her alma mater, Hollywood Park Elementary. About 10 years ago, Ms. Woodward said, gesturing toward the parking lot, temporary trailers were needed, as the school was over-enrolled. This year, the principal counted 469 students registered -- 124 fewer than the school can handle. 
 ''I used to go up north to visit my family, and they all wanted to come here, to be part of this,'' Ms. Woodward said. ''Now I'm thinking about leaving, too. It's scary.''
 Some parents, like Kim Yager, 27, who has three children at the school, welcomed the drop-off. ''It means smaller classes,'' she said. 
 But as cities like Detroit well know, declines in population also compound downturns and hurt quality of life. Florida, in particular, was not built for emptying. Its government, since a 1924 constitutional amendment banned a state income tax, relies heavily on sales and property taxes, which are more closely linked with population growth. 
 Without it, and as housing prices and property tax revenues have fallen, municipalities have been forced to scramble. Broward County's schools, which have been losing students for several years, opened Monday with 100 fewer teachers and a budget of $3.6 billion, down from about $5 billion in 2008. 
 Facing a deficit of $109 million, the county's commissioners have reduced hours at libraries and parks, while the sheriff agreed to cut at least 177 positions. 
 The mood is dismal. Jim Findlay, 66, head of the rare books section in Broward County's main library, said he had noticed more competitiveness among his colleagues as they wait for expected layoffs. He said he missed the time when moving trucks meant arrivals, not departures. 
 ''It weighs on me because there has always been this hope, this expansiveness, this welcome of the new, this welcome of the unusual and eccentric in Florida,'' he said. ''That seems to have come to a halt.''
 Or stagnating. In downtown Hollywood, chefs now stand outside with their arms crossed at dinnertime waiting for customers that never come. There are 10 shuttered businesses in the two blocks of Hollywood Boulevard north of Young Circle, the city's main shopping district. 
 Jack Smile, 54, a co-owner of the Jeweled Castle, ''a new-age department store,'' said that many of the closed stores had been opened by people who thought that anything would work because it is Florida, where new buyers are a constant. 
 He started out the same way 14 years ago after leaving New York. ''I came down here to work less and make more money,'' Mr. Smile said. ''But the tables turned.''
 He has survived by bargaining with customers, and by selling stress kits of incense and oils. Gary Mormino, a historian at the University of South Florida, St. Petersburg, said baby boomers may be the state's best shot at another upswing. ''The big question is will they choose the same type of retirement as their parents,'' he said. 
 Already, the state's hold on retirees is weakening, with thousands of disenchanted ''halfbacks'' moving to Georgia and the Carolinas in recent years. Mr. Smith at the University of Florida nonetheless predicts modest population increases when the economy picks up -- growth of 150,000 to 200,000 people annually.
 Even that would be a downward adjustment from recent history. Yet, for Mr. Smile, any increase would be an omen of hope. 
 ''We're holding onto the magic,'' he said, standing behind a counter with $3 Fairy Dust and a Buddha promising prosperity. ''The magic is here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Liberty magazine echoed the people's sentiments in 1926: Florida was the place to go.
In Hollywood, Fla., which lost 1 percent of its population over the past year, residents say the change is palpable. One of them, Sandra Woodward, 25, said she was considering leaving.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL F. McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A21) CHART: First Decline in Decades: Florida's population decreased by 58,000 from April 2008 to April 2009, the first decline in more than five decades. The only other times since 1900 that the state lost population were around the two world wars.: Year-over-year change in Florida's population (Sources: Bureau of Economic and Business Research, University of Florida
 Census Bureau)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION DECLINE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); CENSUS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WORLD WAR I (68%); CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



785 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Choice in Health Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Real Choice? It's Off Limits in Health Bills'' (Economic Scene, front page, Aug. 26):
 As a physician, I was encouraged by David Leonhardt's article. He hits the nail on the head. Real consumer choice is not addressed in the bills currently being considered in Congress and by the White House.
 In contrast, the Wyden-Bennett bill speaks directly to the issue of choice by phasing out employer-based health insurance and allowing individuals and families to choose the health plan that's best for them. Moreover, the universal coverage this bill proposes is comprehensive, portable, affordable and financially sustainable.
 Unfortunately, President Obama seems to feel that universal coverage can be accomplished without changing the status quo. It is time to rethink this position, educate the American public on the real costs of employer-based health care and move in the direction of true health care reform. 
 Those who stand to benefit most are the American people themselves.
 Daniel N. Ovadia Santa Barbara, Calif., Aug. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Leonhardt correctly argues that private insurance plans and employers exercise too many of the choices in today's health care system, and that a better system would give people more control of their own care. But the other essential half of the dyad that should control the use of medical resources is physicians.
 Doctors in consultation with their patients -- not insurance plans, not employers and not government officials -- now make most of the decisions that determine how health dollars are spent. Fee-for-service payment and an entrepreneurial, fragmented system heavily weighted in favor of specialists cause unsustainable cost inflation.
 A reform that does not address these problems, as well as eliminate or reduce the role of private insurers and employers, cannot succeed. Regrettably, none of the proposals now before Congress meet this requirement.
 Arnold S. Relman Marcia Angell Cambridge, Mass., Aug. 26, 2009
 The writers are physicians and former editors in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Relman is professor emeritus of medicine and social medicine at Harvard Medical School, and Dr. Angell is a senior lecturer in social medicine there.
 To the Editor:
 David Leonhardt's article promoting ''real choice'' in health insurance alludes to a fundamental difficulty with this approach. Without some system for helping the consumer know what he is choosing, the whole premise of the free market breaks down.
 As Mr. Leonhardt observes, today's employee depends on his company to provide a menu of sensible choices. As the well-known problems with Medicare Part D insurance demonstrate, having the consumer deal directly with insurance companies is a risky undertaking. 
 The two major issues, which apply to the broader case as well, are understanding what is covered and being able to change providers if the coverage is modified.
 This is not to say that the current system should continue. Mr. Leonhardt's description of its fatal flaws is spot on. But any proposal for ''competition'' and ''free market'' mechanisms must include some way to make the consumer an educated consumer.
 I expect that one part of this must be government regulation of the details of the insurance that can be offered. Until such mechanisms are added to any free-market scheme, the sensible fears of the currently insured will prevent its adoption.
 Marc Auslander Millwood, N.Y., Aug. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 For most people, ''real choice'' in health care is not the choice of an insurance plan; it's the choice of a primary care physician.
 Employer options come and go, and one private plan is usually as good as another, as long as an involuntary switch doesn't come between a family and a trusted, longtime caregiver. Fragmented physician panels that capriciously interrupt continuity of care are resented by patients and physicians alike.
 As in so many other ways, single-payer health care provides the answer: one big panel of doctors, with complete freedom of choice for patients. Of course, that's not politically viable.
 It might protect hard-won, deeply valued doctor-patient relationships, and it might save money and produce better health outcomes. But we wouldn't want to harm the insurance industry!
 Bruce Soloway Bronx, Aug. 26, 2009
 The writer, a physician, is vice chairman of the department of family and social medicine at Montefiore Medical Center. 
 To the Editor:
 Historically, Americans have believed in economic competition, freedom of choice and fairness in seeking economic opportunity.
 During the rampant industrialization of the nation near the end of the 19th century, competition fell victim to monopolies. The passage of the Sherman Antitrust Act in 1890 was watershed legislation by the federal government to maintain competition.
 During the Progressive Era leaders like Woodrow Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt were obliged to call for regulation in business and finance. Franklin D. Roosevelt ushered in even greater federal regulation during the Great Depression.
 The current recession has compelled the federal government to become a more gigantic player in the marketplace. President Obama should stick with his call for a public option to bring about choice and competition within the health insurance industry.
 Don Blankenbush Pennington, N.J., Aug. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Regardless of their respective strengths and weaknesses, all of the bills for health care reform are too complex to explain, grasp and support. And Republicans have made it abundantly clear that they will oppose any truly meaningful change.
 Yet these very obstacles present the president with the opportunity to do what is sensible and right: to put his conviction, passion and clout behind a single-payer system.
 Will people be afraid of so radical a change? The majority probably will; people tend to fear the unknown.
 But ''the shock of the new'' is as old as innovation itself. Eventually, people adapt to change and ultimately embrace it.
 Byron Alpers Shorewood, Wis., Aug. 26, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''World's Best Health Care'' (editorial, Aug. 26):
 The United States health care system is not the world's best by almost any measure. But one must understand that health care is typically measured by its outcomes. These outcomes, like longevity and infant mortality, are more than just a consequence of availability of health insurance and access to doctors and hospitals.
 Health care outcomes are influenced by many complex and poorly understood factors that relate to society's structure, including socioeconomic forces and race. This is true in the United States and globally.
 The American health care system is in bad need of reforms that will eliminate the tragedy of 46 million uninsured people. 
 But our government and its citizens also need to study and address the broader issues, like economic inequity and racial segregation, that underlie our inability to achieve the health care outcomes that other societies have achieved. Otherwise, we will be very disappointed with the results of the current legislative efforts.
 Garrett M. Nash New York, Aug. 26, 2009
 The writer, a physician, is an assistant professor of surgery at Weill-Cornell Medical College. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MEDICARE (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



786 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL THE CITY LIFE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: The Sequel Is So Derivative

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
Gordon Gekko is coming back, and not a moment too soon. Requests have been posted in selected Manhattan apartment houses for residents to have their lodgings scouted as sets for Oliver Stone's sequel to ''Wall Street.'' This was the film so entertaining in 1987 for dramatizing the supposedly worst sins and wiles of amoral highfliers in the financial district. 
 Turns out that we didn't fully explore back then the dearth of downtown scruples, but Mr. Stone is determined to update us. His sequel is entitled ''Wall Street 2: Money Never Sleeps.'' Michael Douglas will be back as Gekko, his mantra sounding these days like timeless condemnation: ''Greed, for lack of a better word, is good. Greed is right. Greed works.''
 Gekko got his climactic comeuppance when the feds nailed him as a mere insider trader. The new film's script will feature the more complex villainy of the Great Recession, tear-jerkingly familiar to groundlings with shrunken 401(k)'s: hedge funders, derivative traders and subprime lenders will chew the latest scenery. And, thanks be to Croesus, there is to be a giddy bonus-time scene, too, according to Hollywood reports. The script is rumored to open with Gekko coming out of prison after 14 years, ready to rebuild his life on the frenetically new Wall Street that would grease the latest fall. 
 There's no mention of cocaine or hair gel returning as actor props nor, alas, of my dream subplot featuring Joe Pesci as Bernie Madoff. But Frank Langella, a true Gotham actor, is cast as a pivotal, world-weary broker named Zabel. He's a ''regular guy'' who enjoys his morning coffee and newspaper and heads down to Wall Street, according to the apartment audition notice in West Side buildings.
 One rumored version of the script has Zabel interrupting this morning routine to resolutely jump under a subway train as a tragic figure in the further adventures of Gordon Gekko. That would be the No. 1 local. Greed still sounds like good box office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); US 401K PLANS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); INSIDER TRADING (68%); SUBPRIME LENDING (52%); COCAINE (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



787 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Jobless at 58: A Life Story In Need of a Rewrite

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 MICHAEL BLATTMAN, 58, took a prudent path to a successful business career. Armed with an M.B.A., he started with the federal government, working at the General Accounting Office and Federal Reserve, before moving to the Sallie Mae student loan program, where he rose to be director of national sales.
 From 2001 to 2008 he was a senior vice president for a private student-loan company and at his high point earned $225,000 a year in salary and bonuses, he says. He also taught business courses at the University of Maryland; lived in a 4,000-square-foot home in upscale Potomac, Md., and drove a Mercedes.
 And then, in short order, this stable life came undone. When his younger of two children was almost ready for college, Mr. Blattman asked his wife of 25 years for a divorce. 
 ''We'd just grown apart, we had a different opinion on mostly everything,'' he says. ''Life is short -- you got to do what makes you happy.'' Since he worked out of his home, he could live anywhere, and decided Florida would be the place to start over.
 But soon after, in January 2008, he lost his job. His company was shutting down much of its student loan business. Still, Mr. Blattman wasn't worried. He received a $188,000 severance package and says, ''I thought I'd find another job quickly, and actually wind up ahead.'' He is well regarded in his field. Jim Murphy, a former president of the New York State Financial Aid Administrators Association, calls him ''innovative, dependable, an asset to any organization.'' Tony Doyle, a dean at Widener Law School, describes him as ''a highly capable, dedicated professional.''
 None of that matters in this economy. Mr. Blattman has been out of work ever since, 18 months. He moved to New York because he thought prospects would be better than in Florida. (''I couldn't go back to Maryland, tail between my legs.'')
 But after applying for 600 jobs, he's had just three interviews -- two of them over the phone. At the only in-person interview, for a position supervising international admissions at a Westchester County college, he was asked about salary. ''I said: 'Whatever you're paying, I'll take it. I understand it's a different world now, I can adapt.' '' The job went to someone half his age, he says.
 Being single, he wants to be in New York City, but lives in a studio apartment in this middle-class suburb, because rents are cheaper. He let his online dating membership lapse because, he says, once women figured out he was unemployed, it killed things. He can walk to shopping, but often drives his secondhand S.U.V. to a grocery store two towns away just to have someplace to go. ''If I walk to the store, I'm back in 10 minutes, and then what?'' Last Monday, asked what he had planned for the week, he said, ''As of now, I have zero planned, not a thing.''
 He has enough to live on for two to three years and knows he's luckier than many. Still, he wakes in the night, scared. ''If I don't find work by then,'' he says, ''I don't know what I'll do.''
 Unemployment for middle-aged workers like Mr. Blattman is the highest it's been since data was first collected 60 years ago. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, joblessness is worse for men over 45 (7.7 percent in July) than women the same age (6.9 percent). And while the middle-aged are still more likely to have jobs than younger workers, once people Mr. Blattman's age are laid off, finding a new job is harder. In 2008, laid-off people over 45 were out of work 22.2 weeks, versus 16.2 weeks for younger workers.
 Like steelworkers in the 1980s recession, Mr. Blattman was part of an industry, financial services, where entire companies and divisions collapsed and disappeared. ''It wasn't anything about me personally,'' he says. ''The world around me just changed overnight. Like East Germany, one day it was there, next day gone.''
 Several factors were at play: credit markets contracted; a scandal over questionable ties between lenders and college aid offices put private lenders on the defensive; and Congress cut the subsidies paid to private lenders for issuing federally guaranteed loans, reducing profitability.
 Mr. Blattman has many people to commiserate with, but few to network with. ''Ninety percent of the people I worked with lost jobs,'' he says.
 After his layoff, he bought two suits, ''to be prepared for the glut of interviews.''
 He's never worn them.
 Companies insist applications be sent via e-mail. ''I'd say 95 percent never even acknowledge receiving my application, let alone telling me I was rejected. No letters, no courtesy, everything is so chaotic and rude.''
 Even headhunters stopped responding. ''One tried to help for a few weeks, but disappeared and didn't return phone calls or e-mails.''
 ''I'd see ads for business jobs, teaching jobs, that were my exact resume and not even get a call. So many are out of work, if they want a guy with polka dots on his head, they can find polka dots.''
 Just getting people to understand what he did for a living -- setting up loan programs for colleges -- is often not possible. ''I just say I'm a sales guy, I can sell ice to Eskimos. My problem is, I have no credential. I'm not a lawyer or doctor, not in pharmaceuticals, not an expert in women's fashion. I have no broker's license or insurance certificate.''
 ''Here's the reality,'' he continues. ''I used to be somebody, I had a job. Not anymore. Everything ground to a halt. No sense of purpose. No self-esteem.''
 Filling the days is a chore. He goes for the $2.99 breakfast special at a nearby diner every morning, just to get out and be around people.
 A few times a week, he rides the train into Manhattan, to a museum or street fair, just to be out. ''I'll walk from Union Square to the Upper East Side, walk through Central Park and just get lost and see where I come out.''
 His father, a truck driver who survived the Depression, instilled the importance of hard work in his children by planting the fear of homelessness, and Mr. Blattman cannot walk by a street person now without wondering if this could be him.
 When he's out, he feels guilty he's not home, hunting the Internet for job prospects.
 His health insurance expired July 31, so he bought a new policy that starts Sept. 1, and is keeping his fingers crossed he makes it through August.
 He fears he's too old to find work and too young to retire.
 He got a call from a headhunter last week; one of his former employees had listed him as a reference. She asked what he was doing and said she might have a job for him. ''We'll see,'' he says. ''I've got to the point -- no one's going to do that for me. It's all about me making it happen. I can't rely on the old world to take me back.''
 With so much time on his hands, he decided to take a stab at writing novels. He's finished a thriller about a consumer loan officer and is working on making contacts in the writing world. ''I have befriended publishers, published authors, agents, taking certain people to lunch,'' he says. A few hours after saying he had nothing going last week, he received an invitation to a book party in SoHo and planned to build a day in the city around it.
 During his walks, he makes notes on his BlackBerry for his second novel, which, he says, is half finished. It's about a 58-year-old unemployed man who lives in a studio apartment the size of a hotel room, and every morning goes to a diner, where he falls for a waitress who's the daughter of Holocaust survivors.
 It's a love story, he says, and while he's not yet sure exactly how it will turn out, his intent has always been to give it a happy ending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STARTING OVER: Michael Blattman, now jobless, once earned $225,000 a year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CHILDREN (75%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); BONUS PAY (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); DISMISSALS (66%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



788 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Stimulus, Sidetracked

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''Don't Let the Stimulus Lose Its Spark'' (Economic View, Aug. 23), in which Robert H. Frank saw much benefit in the economic stimulus program, and argued that cuts in state and local government spending were endangering it: 
 The column did not note that many responsible critics of governmental stimulus are not so critical of the stimulus idea but of how much of the money is being spent -- on social projects rather than on actual economically stimulating ones. And there was no mention of the municipalities that, like auto companies, negotiated outsized spending projects and pension plans in good times, assuming that the party would go on forever.
 Even more important, increased tax receipts of a new prosperity will not necessarily outweigh the huge debt needed to create it.
 Edward Grayson
 Boca Raton, Fla., Aug. 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



789 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: The Depths of Mortgage Debt

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE number of homeowners whose mortgages exceed the value of their home -- who are ''underwater,'' in industry parlance -- recently hit a grim milestone. 
 As of the end of June, more than one-third of all mortgaged homes in the United States were underwater, according to a report last month by the First American CoreLogic, a mortgage-industry consulting firm in Santa Ana, Calif. First American said the figure is almost certainly the highest it has been in decades.
 Homeowners are in better financial condition in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey than in many other parts of the country. Still, a spate of job losses in the financial industry in the past year could affect foreclosures, and, by extension, property values. But for now, First American said, the average mortgage holder in the greater New York area has significant home equity. 
 In New York, the average loan-to-value ratio (the amount owed on the mortgage, divided by the home's value) is 56 percent, the company said. In Connecticut, it is 63 percent, and in New Jersey, the figure is 70 percent. By contrast, the nation's average loan-to-value ratio is 78 percent.
 As the ratio suggests, New Jersey's situation is bleaker than that of neighboring states. In fact, of the nation's most underwater states -- defined by the aggregate property value of underwater homes -- New Jersey was tied for third, at $146 billion. (The top two were California, at $969 billion, and Florida, $432 billion.)
 In the area that the report defines as greater New York City, $183 billion worth of mortgages were underwater. This area includes Long Island, northern New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania, but not Connecticut or New York State north of the city. 
 Negative equity is the best predictor for loan defaults, said Sam Khater, a senior economist for First American. Still, ''a majority of people who are underwater probably will not default,'' he said, ''because if you have your job and don't encounter economic shock, you'll most likely keep paying on your home.''
 Another set of recent statistics underscores the idea that having an underwater mortgage diminishes a borrower's mobility. According to the Census Bureau, fewer people moved in 2007 and 2008 than in any other two-year period since 1959 and 1960. Compared with 2006 and 2007 census data, 19 percent fewer homeowners moved in 2007 and 2008. 
 Aside from causing people to stay put, the diminished equity situation has induced homeowners to save more money, since they cannot depend on second mortgages for emergency funds.
 The average American saved less than 1 percent of income in 2006, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. In recent months, the Fed said, the personal savings rate reached roughly 5 percent, the highest point in more than a decade.
 Real estate values in the greater New York area may suffer less from underwater mortgages than in other parts of the nation, said Mr. Khater, of First American, because homeowners are less likely to fall into foreclosure.
 That is because this area was less popular among people who bought homes as investments rather than for their own use. In Arizona, Nevada, California and Florida, where speculative buying was much more common, homeowners who owe much more than their homes are worth generally have less incentive to keep paying the mortgage. 
 ''For every 1,000 negative equity loans in New York and New Jersey, I'd expect there to be less foreclosure activity than in the states with a lot of investors,'' Mr. Khater said. Not only are there fewer investors here, he added, but the local labor market is still stronger than it is in those states.
 It is, of course, anyone's guess how long it might take for underwater homeowners to see their house go from a liability to an asset. Mr. Khater said that after three recent housing busts -- Massachusetts and Texas in the 1980s and Southern California in the early 1990s -- it took about seven years for home values to recover their losses.

GRAPHIC: CHART (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (85%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CENSUS (77%); SECOND MORTGAGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SAVINGS RATES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%)

COMPANY: BROOKE CORP (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (60%); CORELOGIC INC (57%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812210 FUNERAL HOMES & FUNERAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



790 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Do-It-Yourself RV

 BODY:
What do you do when your itch to travel extends for thousands of miles, but your budget won't support all those nights in hotels? For a trip across the United States and back earlier this summer, my husband and I found the solution in an RV Lite -- a Toyota Sienna minivan that we converted with little cost or effort into our own smaller, stripped-down version of the old Volkswagen Vanagons we remembered from the 1970s. 
 For years we'd played with the idea of buying a real recreational vehicle. But price tags were discouraging: $70,000 to $125,000 for either a motorized version we liked or a combination of a small but well-made trailer and a truck to pull it. We didn't want to buy used, fearing breakdowns. And there was the issue of fuel economy, which loomed large after the oil shock of 2008. 
 So we downsized the dream.
 Our Sienna is a standard 2006 model with three rows of seats. We removed the middle and back rows, which are bolted into place and can be easily reinstalled anytime, and were left with a large open space, about 4 feet 6 inches wide and 8 feet long. 
 The first six feet back became the cargo area by day and -- with luggage moved to the front seats -- the bedroom at night. We looked at folding cots and inflatable mattresses but settled on using two flip-out foam beds that we'd bought years ago for visiting children to sleep on. The van has vent-style back windows -- good for ventilation at night -- and lots of storage cubbies and cup holders that we stuffed with handy items. For lighting, we found solar lanterns that use D batteries as storage cells. Leaving them near a window in the daytime kept them charged up for nighttime use. 
 The van also has privacy glass: reflective windows that work like one-way mirrors to the outside, so that it's difficult for anyone to see in. Still, we did put up a couple of curtains at night, hung on pressure rods. 
 We bought a tiny camp stove but never used it. Moving fast over a lot of territory replete with cheap restaurants, we decided not to fuss with hot meals. For cold food, like sandwiches and breakfast cereal with milk, we carried a picnic-style Coleman cooler advertised as keeping ice for five days in hot weather. It almost did. 
 And that left just one issue, the elephant in the room: plumbing. 
 Camping does not have to be primitive. Many campgrounds all over the country, both public and private, have clean, well maintained flush toilets and hot showers. Using Internet sites and camping guides (especially AAA camp books, which worked well for our needs), we stuck to these places. But still, most people also like something of their own. 
 Behind the area where we made up our beds, our van has a shallow well of space where the rear seats normally fold down. We chose to view this as a separate room: the bathroom. Fortunately, the technology of portable toilets is now impressive in two vital respects: ease of cleaning and discretion, both visual and olfactory. We purchased something called an Envirolet, from Sancor Industries of Toronto, a tad pricey but on the cutting edge of these advances. We also found a portable plastic sink, folding to briefcase size, with separate compartments for clean and gray water and even a tiny mirror. 
 An RV Lite wouldn't work for some people: the plus-size family we once saw at an RV show, for example, who squeezed into a small trailer and joked that once in, they'd never get out. But for us, the minivan was cozy and functional. And, running at 25 to 30 miles per gallon, economical enough so that we felt no guilt at all about staying every third or fourth night in a hotel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CAMPING (89%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (86%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (77%); MINIVANS (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



791 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: Spinning Off Into Uncharted Cartoon Territory

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
 ABOUT 20 years ago the public access television shows here were plagued by a prank caller named Rallo. He sounded like a young black man with a gentle demeanor, and he had an outlandish discussion topic for every program: he would ask sports shows for predictions on wrestling matches; he would ask veterinary shows whether his pet boa constrictor had eaten a Nerf football or his neighbor's cat. The hapless hosts may not have realized that Rallo wasn't interested in their shows or their advice. But Rallo wasn't real, and Rallo wasn't black.
 He was the invention of Mike Henry, a brawny Richmond native with a close-cropped haircut, a slight Southern drawl and unmistakably white skin. 
 Now a 43-year-old comedy producer and performer, Mr. Henry is still making up offbeat characters and making a living from them: on ''Family Guy,'' the uncompromisingly irreverent Fox animated comedy, he voices many supporting characters, from a half-naked deaf man covered in grease to Cleveland Brown, the African-American pal of Peter Griffin, the show's lunkheaded title character. 
 Cleveland has proved so popular that he and Mr. Henry are about to be rewarded with a spinoff, ''The Cleveland Show,'' in which he returns to his Virginia hometown, marries his high school sweetheart and becomes stepfather to her children (including a devilish boy named Rallo).
 On paper ''The Cleveland Show'' (which makes its debut on Sept. 27) is an unusual, even perilous proposition: it is one of the rare programs on network television focusing on an African-American family, but its creators and its star are white. Already some critics are calling it a cartoon version of blackface. 
 Yet to Mr. Henry, Cleveland is the closest he's come to playing himself. ''He's me, sort of,'' he said over breakfast at a popular Richmond diner. ''He's just me, but black. With a mustache.''
 Despite its colorful palette ''Family Guy'' possesses a savage sensibility. What began as a ''Simpsons''-style situation comedy has evolved a vocabulary of cutaway gags and pop-cultural allusions, as well as what its creator, Seth MacFarlane, calls a ''post-P.C. tone.'' ''We try to offend all corners equally,'' he said.
 The result is a show that sometimes seems magnetically attracted to offensive jokes: Jewish characters are depicted as nebbishy hypochondriacs and gay characters as mincing, sex-starved deviants; Peter Griffin has been variously shown punching his teenage daughter and mistaking a doctor's prostate exam for an act of rape. (Fox recently said it would not broadcast a ''Family Guy'' episode that addressed the topic of abortion.)
 To this mix Mr. Henry has added and performed recurring characters like Herbert, a mild-mannered elderly pedophile, and Consuela, a stocky Hispanic maid with a limited command of English. But Cleveland, a sleepy-eyed deli owner who has been part of ''Family Guy'' since its debut in 1999, means more to Mr. Henry than those two-dimensional caricatures.
 ''He's different from Homer Simpson or Peter Griffin in that he's not necessarily a buffoon,'' Mr. Henry said. ''He's a well-meaning man who gets himself into situations through good intentions and, sometimes, not the best judgment.''
 The character has also figured in emotionally ambitious plotlines, like an episode in which Cleveland struggled with the knowledge that his wife was having an affair. Very quickly, Mr. MacFarlane said, he noticed that ''Cleveland was somebody who was a very rich, textured character who could sustain stories of his own.'' He added, ''A lot of that had to do with Mike, and Mike's performance.''
 Mr. Henry said that there was no turning point in his life when he started imitating black voices, ''no huge epiphany black moment,'' and that he has always mimicked the people around him. Asked why of all his roles he would most closely identify with an African-American character, he said the answer might lie somewhere in his upbringing. ''Although there weren't many black people around,'' he said, ''I always felt black. I've always been a little bit of an outsider.''
 From the age of 2 Mr. Henry was raised in Richmond, where his parents, both artists, divorced when he was 8, and he and his younger brother, Patrick, were raised by their mother. Money was tight, but Mr. Henry was given a need-based scholarship to a local preparatory school, where he became acutely aware of the economic chasm between his classmates and him. 
 ''I always felt like I needed to prove myself for being a little different,'' he said. ''I didn't quite feel welcome.''
 At school, Mr. Henry said, ''there was like one black dude in each class,'' and he remembers how his lone African-American friend, Larry Smith, a neighbor in his apartment complex, turned him on to favorite musicians like Stevie Wonder, the Commodores and Earth, Wind & Fire.
 After graduating from Washington and Lee University, Mr. Henry ditched an advertising career to try his hand at comedy in Los Angeles and then in New York. He became a close friend of Mr. MacFarlane, who was his brother's classmate at the Rhode Island School of Design. When Fox ordered its first season of ''Family Guy,'' Mr. MacFarlane hired Mr. Henry to help write cutaway gags and to create and perform characters.
 When Mr. Henry pitched the character of Cleveland -- based on a sometime basketball partner with a distinctive regional accent (his pronunciation of ''Maryland'' sounded like ''Merlin'') -- his ''Family Guy'' colleagues did not blink. ''If I had originally pitched Cleveland as 'Wassup, Peter,' '' Mr. Henry said, slipping into a stereotypical accent, ''it wouldn't have been interesting. But he's pretty much a black dude that's a nerd.'' 
 (Mr. Henry, however, was not allowed to provide the voice for his ''Family Guy'' character Ollie Williams, a gruff meteorologist who delivers the show's ''black-u-weather'' forecast. ''That was a little over the edge,'' Mr. Henry said; the role went to an African-American actor.)
 Two years ago, when Mr. MacFarlane, Mr. Henry and a third producer, Rich Appel, began discussing a possible ''Family Guy'' spinoff, they quickly settled on Cleveland to be its star.
 Kevin Reilly, the president for entertainment at Fox Broadcasting, said he had initially been concerned about a show that would focus on a black family and be run by three white men. But after seeing the pitch for ''The Cleveland Show,'' Mr. Reilly said, he was convinced it could bridge the gap between family entertainment and inappropriate humor, and fit snugly on a programming schedule between ''The Simpsons'' and ''Family Guy.''
 ''They've figured out how to really straddle the fence on that and create a show that, tonally, comes from the character himself,'' Mr. Reilly said. He added: ''I've got 10-year-old twin boys. I do not let them watch 'Family Guy.' I will let them watch 'Cleveland.' ''
 Mr. MacFarlane's clout at Fox probably would have made it tricky for Mr. Reilly to say no: with the addition of ''The Cleveland Show,'' Mr. MacFarlane now produces three-quarters of the network's Sunday-night programming (including ''Family Guy'' and ''American Dad''), and ''Family Guy'' is a lucrative revenue source for the Fox television studio, generating $2 million an episode in syndication fees and more than $200 million a year in licensing and merchandise.
 If that success has encouraged the audacious sensibility of his animated programs, he and his colleagues are still trying to determine how much of it belongs in ''The Cleveland Show'': in a scene from the pilot episode, as Cleveland and his son prepare to depart for Virginia, they are fondly told, ''Goodbye, chocolate people,'' by some of the ''Family Guy'' characters. But the show has also amended its opening theme to remove a lyric in which Cleveland refers to his ''happy black-guy face.''
 Nonetheless some critics who have seen the pilot are accusing the show of racial insensitivity. In a panel discussion published in Broadcasting & Cable magazine, David Bianculli of NPR likened ''The Cleveland Show'' to ''Amos 'n' Andy,'' and Robert Bianco of USA Today warned that Fox could face a backlash.
 Darnell Hunt, the director of the Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, said that ''The Cleveland Show'' represented an ''interesting departure'' at a time when minorities remain ''shamefully absent'' from the casts and writing staffs of prime-time television series.
 Any concern that a team of white producers would inaccurately represent their black characters could be alleviated, he said, ''by bringing in actors of color to portray the other characters and, more importantly, bringing in writers of color to give the series the sensitivity to the slice of life that's being depicted in the show.''
 Having a white actor portray a black cartoon character is not inherently offensive, Dr. Hunt said. But, he added, ''I think that the burden of the proof is on the creators of the show to show that they have gone beyond the bare minimum that's necessary to address the concerns that black audiences might legitimately have.''
 ''The Cleveland Show'' does employ minority writers and performers, including the actors Sanaa Lathan and Reagan Gomez-Preston. Kanye West and Earth, Wind & Fire will appear as guest stars. 
 But some members of the ''Cleveland Show'' voice cast said they were surprised to discover that the show's protagonist was played by a white man.
 ''I just thought this was just a nice guy who might be an exec that hangs around with Seth during the recording sessions,'' said the veteran voice actor Kevin Michael Richardson, who is African-American. Watching Mr. Henry's face while he performed Cleveland's voice, Mr. Richardson said, ''It tripped me out, man.''
 Mr. Richardson, who plays Cleveland's son, Cleveland Jr., as well as his white good-ol'-boy neighbor, Lester, said he did not mind if the show made fun of African-Americans. ''If it was just the blacks, we'd have a problem,'' he said. ''But the fact that it offends everybody, I can laugh.''
 Mr. Henry said the parallels between his life and Cleveland's allowed him to satirize the character's circumstances. Like Cleveland, he and his wife, Sara, have a blended family, including their 21-month-old daughter, Josie, and Mr. Henry's 5-year-old son, Jack, by a previous marriage.
 For all the precautions he believes he has taken, Mr. Henry could not predict whether ''The Cleveland Show'' would affront audiences in ways its creators did not intend.
 ''I hope it doesn't,'' he said. ''I don't think it will. I know where I'm coming from, and that's all I can control.''
 He added: ''I've got a whole bunch of friends of all colors who will back me up. I can't be too concerned with it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Henry, top, with models of some of the characters he voices on ''Family Guy,'' below, including Cleveland Brown, now the star of his own series, ''The Cleveland Show,'' second from top. Above, Mr. Henry with his wife, Sara, and his children, Jack and Josie.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAY PAUL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CATS (76%); FAMILY (73%); WRESTLING (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); CHILDREN (70%); ANIMATION (67%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

PERSON: SETH MACFARLANE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: The Cleveland Show (TV Program); The Cleveland Show (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



792 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Towns Accommodate 'Affordable'

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
IN 1998, when a developer came knocking with a plan to build affordable housing on 360 acres of farmland in Simsbury, it reacted the way an affluent suburb might be expected to react to a perceived threat: It fought. 
 Eight years and some $1.5 million later, the town still hadn't won. So last year it settled, in an agreement that limited the project, called Meadowood, to 299 homes, 25 percent of them priced below market rate, for moderate-income households. 
 Since then, town officials -- aware that 74 homes in Meadowood were unlikely to forestall further calls for affordable housing -- have decided to tackle the issue head-on. Simsbury has joined 34 other Connecticut communities in a state program that offers grants to help towns plan ahead for mixed-income housing -- before a developer picks out a site for them. 
 ''What we learned is that towns are much better off planning and being proactive on affordable housing, instead of being reactive,'' said Mary Glassman, Simsbury's first selectwoman. 
 Historically, that philosophy has been a hard sell for proponents of affordable housing. Most communities have strongly resisted such housing, even in the face of a state law that eases the way for developers if less than 10 percent of a town's housing stock qualifies as affordable. 
 Although the law is routinely criticized for overriding local density restrictions, few municipalities have acted on their own to plan for affordable housing. 
 Now, as concern grows that high housing costs and lagging job growth are driving young people out of the state, towns have lined up to take advantage of the year-old grant program -- called the Housing Program for Economic Growth, or HOMEConnecticut. 
 So far, the state has approved $1.65 million in grants for planning assistance to 35 of the 54 municipalities that have applied, according to Dimple Desai, the community development director in the Office of Policy and Management. 
 Under the program, communities may receive grants of up to $50,000 to create zones for high-density housing in town centers, near public transit, or in other areas with infrastructure to support it.
 Towns may also qualify for additional incentive payments if their zones meet certain conditions: Twenty percent of units in the housing zone must be affordable to buyers earning no more than 80 percent of the area's median income.
 The new zones must also allow for a density of six single-family homes or 20 multifamily units per acre. 
 Nineteen grant applications are pending, although the state budget crisis has stalled the program for the time being, and Gov. M. Jodi Rell's administration has suspended payment of any additional grants. 
 But that has not stopped communities with grants already in hand from moving ahead. In Simsbury's case, Ms. Glassman said, ''we don't have the housing we need to sustain the kind of community we want. It changes the face of your community when you don't have a diverse housing stock.'' 
 Simsbury has picked out six spots suitable for high-density housing, including its town center. Residents and business owners have been invited to a six-day planning session in September to help strategize on ways to adapt mixed-income housing into a long-range vision for downtown. 
 Giving residents advance input into siting and design standards should help ''short-circuit'' the usual Nimby concerns about affordable housing down the road, said Hiram Peck, Simsbury's planning director. 
 Wallingford, another of the 35 towns in the grant program, held numerous public workshops before submitting to the state its proposal for a mixed-income district in an underdeveloped six-block area around the train station. 
 The proposed zoning regulations call for first-floor retail uses, with residential units in the upper stories at a density of 26 units per acre, said Linda Bush, the town planner. 
 State approval of the zoning plan would make Wallingford eligible for payments of $2,000 per unit when the zone is formally adopted. The state's budgetary woes have dimmed the prospects for such payments anytime soon, but Ms. Bush is hopeful that Wallingford will adopt the plan regardless.
 The new zone could help kick-start an area in which ''nothing has happened for years and years and years,'' she said. 
 Despite the possibility of grant money, however, the proactive approach to affordable housing is still controversial in many towns, as Oxford officials found out after they began studying the potential for mixed-income housing along Route 67. The atmosphere around the planning process became so politically charged that earlier this month the planning and zoning commission voted to abandon the effort. 
 Edwin J. Hellauer Jr., a commission member for the past 14 years, blamed two vocal candidates for local office -- August Palmer and David Haversat -- for seizing on the issue and distorting the facts in order to ''pander to people's fears.'' 
 Mr. Haversat, a Republican state central committee member who is running for first selectman, has suggested that what is actually proposed is a zone for ''low income'' housing that could add hundreds of children to town schools.
 In an interview, he said he didn't believe the town needs affordable housing, and suggested another motive for the study: a developer must have approached the planning and zoning panel and ''said they had a spot where they wanted to build affordable housing -- so this grant allows them to custom-write the regulations for the developer.''
 Such claims are untrue and uninformed, Mr. Hellauer said. The real motivation for the study, he said, is far more straightforward: the $268,000 the town has spent so far to try to prevent a developer from using the state's affordable housing law to justify placing mobile homes in Oxford's industrial park.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PLANNING AHEAD: Simsbury is taking part in a program that encourages a proactive approach to mixed-income housing -- rather than having to accept a developer's choice of site.(PHOTOGRAPH BY M. J. FIEDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



793 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Campsites the Great Depression Created

BYLINE: By MIKE EDWARDS

 BODY:
IF you've walked a trail, swum a lake or rented a cabin in a state or national park or forest, chances are good that you owe a debt to the ''C.C.C. boys,'' who built, cut, cleared, dug and dammed for public benefit during the Great Depression.
 Established in 1933, the Civilian Conservation Corps marshaled an ax-and-shovel army of three million before its end in 1942. Trails, campgrounds, shelters, lodges, fire lookouts -- you name it, the C.C.C. made it. Not least, its legions planted trees and shrubs by the truckload, healing scarred lands and enhancing vistas. 
 The typical corps enrollee was 18; thus, the affable and ubiquitous nickname ''boy.'' But a few slipped in at 14, and thousands of ''boys'' were World War I veterans in their 30s. They enlisted for six months, but could extend for up to two years. Their pay was $30 a month, with $25 sent home for family support -- 1930s-style economic stimulus. 
 Although Civilian Conservation Corps members worked throughout the nation, a strong case can be made that their heartland was a swath of Virginia centered on the Blue Ridge of the Appalachians. 
 President Franklin D. Roosevelt's signature was hardly dry on the act creating the organization when, on April 17, 1933, buses delivered 200 enrollees to a clearing in the George Washington National Forest in the Shenandoah Valley, just west of the Blue Ridge. The nation's first C.C.C. installation was named Camp Roosevelt, of course --and it's the name of the small oak-canopied campground located there today.
 Barracks went up, a kitchen, a mess hall. Those assigned to the camp -- perhaps 3,000 during the corps' life span -- worked throughout the national forest, opening roads and creating recreation facilities. 
 The camp buildings vanished years ago. Only small signs disclose the layout: barracks here, recreation hall there. But I like to imagine that amid the summery buzz of insects, I hear boisterous laughter as I walk pathways lined with stones the boys laid down. 
 Ten miles away, atop the Blue Ridge, Shenandoah National Park flaunts its conservation corps legacy. Beside the visitor center at Big Meadows on Skyline Drive stands a bronze statue of the archetypal C.C.C. boy. Shirtless, ax at his side, he represents the swarms of workers -- some 10,000 or more -- that the corps provided to help develop the park in the 1930s.
 The visitor center looks out on a broad, grassy sweep -- the meadows -- where one of Shenandoah's 10 C.C.C. camps stood. ''Around where the barracks were, you can still find lilac bushes that the boys brought from home,'' Julena Campbell, supervisory park ranger, told me recently. ''Imagine those rough-tough guys bringing lilacs up here.'' Those rough-tough guys also planted more than 200,000 trees and shrubs to beautify and restore eroded areas.
 Wavley Groves of Chesapeake, Va., now 91, spent part of his two corps years taking Shenandoah's trees down. ''There was a ghost forest when I got there,'' he recalled. ''My first job was cutting those trees with a crosscut saw.'' The ghostly trees were chestnuts killed by blight, but still standing and spooky when sheathed in ice or frost.
 The logs were a bonanza; chestnut was a versatile, rot-resistant wood. In a corps sawmill the logs became planks, beams and shingles. Some of that lumber went into Big Meadows Lodge, imparting a mellow warmth to the walls and vaulted ceilings of its spacious public rooms. 
 Lunching there on a visit this summer, my wife, Jennifer, and I marveled at the Bunyanesque layering of the featured sandwich, the C.C.C. Club, presumably a testimonial to members' appetites. In truth, lunch sandwiches for the actual C.C.C. boys were bologna or peanut butter and jelly. 
 We stayed at the park's other large hostelry, Skyland Resort. Its cabins, many with a vintage patina, are scattered over a campus that also includes a commodious dining room. Both Skyland and Big Meadows offer the perfect setting for turning off the world. Simply request one of the many accommodations without TV. None has a telephone, and cellphone reception can be just about nil. Come morning, the silence impels you to look outside, and there on the dewy grass a half-dozen robins are jauntily cavorting.
 Along Skyline Drive, the sinuous 105-mile thread that runs the length of the park, climbing up to 3,500 feet, corps crews provided 60 scenic overlooks, picnic areas, guardrails, campgrounds and dozens of miles of trails. 
 At its southern terminus, the drive joins the much longer Blue Ridge Parkway, which continues 469 miles to Cherokee, N.C. Four thousand C.C.C. boys worked along the parkway, according to Harley Jolley of Mars Hill, N.C., a historian and a corps alumnus. ''Landscaping was the primary job,'' he said, ''but they also did hiking trails, campgrounds and shelters. It was a fabulous contribution.'' 
 ''Fabulous,'' I submit, isn't too potent a word to describe the corps' work in a Virginia state park called Douthat, a 45-minute drive west of the parkway, near the town of Clifton Forge. Virginia had no state parks until the conservation corps came along and built six, aided by National Park Service expertise. The inventory in Douthat includes trails, a 50-acre lake, stone bridges, a lodge, a dining hall, a bathhouse and picnic pavilions. In a blacksmith's shop, preserved with its authentic grime, young smiths forged hinges, locks and other hardware.
 That ironwork embellishes Douthat's most intriguing feature, 25 log cabins. ''Douthat was a guinea-pig park,'' Charles Conner, the park manager, said. ''They used a lot of different floor plans, trying them out.'' No two are identical. Three cabins were constructed with logs set vertically, a highly unusual style. Douthat officials scrupulously maintain the original exteriors. Some of the tested plans were replicated in other parks; besides its contributions in Virginia, the corps built cabins in numerous other states.
 Jennifer and I stayed in No. 6, a one-room cabin. With its two rocking chairs, the front porch was a joy. As night fell, frogs down by the lake serenaded in basso profundo. On such an evening, it is easy to conclude that not everything about the Great Depression was bad. 
 IF YOU GO
 Camp Roosevelt, George Washington National Forest (www.forestcamping.com/dow/southern/gw.htm), five miles northwest of Luray, Va., on Route 675. Ten drive-in or tent sites; central toilet facilities. Fee $10. No reservations taken. 
 Shenandoah National Park (888-896-3833; www.visitshenandoah.com), in the Blue Ridge Mountains, 90 miles west of Washington. Rates, which vary, are for early September. Big Meadows Lodge: 97 rooms and cabins; main lodge rooms from $84, cabins from $99, cabin rooms from $74. Skyland Resort: 177 rooms, suites and cabins; rooms from $92; cabins from $74. Lewis Mountain: 10 cabins; one-room cabins from $89; two-room cabins from $107. 
 Douthat State Park (800-933-7275; www.reserveamerica.com), three miles north of I-64 on Virginia Route 629. Prices are for September. Thirty cabins, two small lodges. The smaller lodge, with six bedrooms, starts at $300 a night; cabin rentals from $67; 73 campsites with camping fees from $24; three group picnic shelters. Reservations required. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judd Milne and Melanie Swartz at Camp Roosevelt, where the first camp for members of the Civilian Conservation Corps was built in 1933. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA RAAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); CAMPING (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY BASES (76%); VETERANS (71%); WORLD WAR I (71%); FAMILY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



794 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Echoes of a Grim Past: Chechnya and Its Neighbors Suffer a Relapse

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Just a year ago, Russian authorities were so proud of their success at bringing order to the north Caucasus that they made Chechnya a stop for the Valdai Discussion Club, the handpicked group of Western analysts flown to Russia every year to hobnob with top officials. 
 Two busloads of writers and academics were shuttled to the gigantic mosque built by President Ramzan A. Kadyrov in memory of his father, granted a wide-ranging interview with Mr. Kadyrov and allowed to stroll down the repaved, repainted and rebuilt streets of Grozny, the Chechen capital. Even the skeptics among them left impressed: calm, it seemed, had returned to Russia's crucible of violence. 
 That case is difficult to make after the summer of 2009. Explosions and shootings have been a daily occurrence in the region all summer. Between June and August, 436 people have been killed, compared with 150 during the same months in 2008. And the number of attacks jumped to 452 from 265, according to statistics compiled by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a private research group based in Washington. 
 The numbers do not fully capture what has happened. High-ranking officials have been strafed with machine-gun fire, targeted by snipers as they strolled out of restaurants or rammed with cars packed with explosives. A prominent human rights worker was snatched outside her apartment, killed and left on a roadside. 
 And suicide bombings, ominously, have returned to Chechnya after a pause of several years. Two militants blew themselves up Friday morning to escape capture, making it a total of three suicide bombings in the region in just the past week. 
 ''The period of stability is quite clearly over in Dagestan, Ingushetia and Chechnya,'' said Pavel K. Baev, a senior researcher at the Oslo-based International Peace Research Institute. ''But it hasn't spread. This is what allows the Russian leadership more or less to keep their distance, not to pay serious attention.''
 For years, the Kremlin's strategy in the Caucasus has hinged on Mr. Kadyrov, with Moscow giving him free rein to crush signs of rebellion in the region. Mr. Kadyrov, a former separatist himself, transformed his corps of fighters into a brutal internal police force. Human rights organizations documented his government's use of torture, intimidation and extrajudicial killing, but even liberals had to admit that he had been effective at quelling the violence. 
 Now, Mr. Kadyrov's grip on Chechnya looks far weaker, leaving Moscow with a choice about whether to stick with a deeply flawed policy or risk a change of course.
 A year ago, and as Mr. Kadyrov pressed for more autonomy from Moscow, it appeared that the Kremlin was testing an alternative style of leadership in neighboring Ingushetia. 
 One of Dmitri A. Medvedev's early acts as president of Russia was to remove Ingushetia's despised president and replace him with Yunus-Bek Yevkurov, a former military intelligence officer. Mr. Yevkurov set about gaining the trust of Ingushetia's population, firing officials for corruption and reaching out to dissidents and rights activists.
 Then, on June 22, a suicide bomber swerved into Mr. Yevkurov's motorcade, releasing a blast so powerful that the president's car flew off the road and into a brick wall. Mr. Yevkurov, gravely wounded, was evacuated to Moscow and spent most of the summer recovering. 
 With him went the hopes that the Kremlin was ready to embrace a softer approach, said Aleksei V. Malashenko, a Caucasus specialist at the Carnegie Moscow Center. 
 ''It is a tragedy, not only for Ingushetia and Yevkurov himself, but generally for the Caucasus,'' Mr. Malashenko said. ''Everybody who said it's necessary to kill, to press, to exterminate, and dialogue is useless -- they are all justified by the destiny of Yevkurov. So it's very bad.'' 
 Then on Aug. 17, a truck full of explosives barreled into police headquarters in a heavily populated part of Nazran, the Ingush capital, killing 25 people and wounding 280. 
 The drumbeat of suicide attacks that have followed are a reminder of the days when rebels made theatergoers and schoolchildren hostages to their rage against Russia, and they are evidence that, despite his assurances, Mr. Kadyrov has not stamped out the insurgency. 
 Mr. Kadyrov blames Wahhabis and other Islamic extremists for the attacks and has repeatedly charged that they are financed and trained by Western countries. He said on Friday that a collaboration between the police, the Federal Security Service and local clergy could prevent young Caucasian men from turning to religious extremism.
 ''We are doing very little today to stop this process,'' he said. ''We must try to find mistakes in what we are doing, and correct them. We must do all we can to win a spiritual victory.'' 
 But in other quarters, scrutiny is falling on Mr. Kadyrov's government and social problems like poverty, unemployment and corruption. 
 Igor Y. Yurgens, the director of the Institute of Contemporary Development and a close aide to Mr. Medvedev, said he believed that ''Chechenization'' -- allowing Chechen authorities a primary role in quelling the insurgency -- had served an essential purpose but was now fueling violence rather than preventing it.
 ''There is big hatred of Kadyrov, there is big hatred of different clans, and it is transformed into social hatred,'' Mr. Yurgens said. 
 Russia's leaders, he continued, should ''make a counterbalance to Kadyrov gradually, without insulting the guy who restored order to the region, but who is becoming a problem.''
 ''This way of running the region cannot last forever,'' he added. 
 Though Mr. Medvedev's early instincts were along the same lines, the series of insurgent attacks have pushed him to embrace tougher tactics, Mr. Yurgens said. This month, Mr. Medvedev encouraged Russian forces to kill terrorists ''without sentiment'' and called for an end to jury trials in terrorism cases, which often result in acquittals. 
 It is, Mr. Yurgens said, ''ferociously difficult'' to expand democracy under violent conditions.
 ''We are all confused,'' he said. ''I think he is confused.'' 
 Mr. Kadyrov's defenders, and even some of his critics, warn that shifting course in Chechnya risks the outbreak of a third war. 
 Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, an ethnic Chechen who once served as speaker of the Russian Parliament, and who has occasional contact with Mr. Kadyrov, said he noted an obvious increase in criticism of the Chechen leader after Moscow declared an end to its decade-long counterterrorist operation in Chechnya. That move gave Mr. Kadyrov even more autonomy from the federal center. 
 Intelligence and military officials were frustrated by the decision and then by Mr. Kadyrov's renewal of ties with Akhmed K. Zakayev, an exiled separatist leader still wanted on Russian terrorism charges, Mr. Khasbulatov said. 
 Mr. Khasbulatov said he worried that the grumbling signaled waning support for Mr. Kadyrov in Moscow and that the results, though pleasing to critics outside the country, would be disastrous for Russia.
 ''They began accusing him of all sins, and in the past this preceded something terrible,'' he said. ''Get rid of Kadyrov, send in some guy from Moscow, and a new war will start. What will the West say then?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Aug. 17, a blast at the police headquarters in Nazran, the capital of Ingushetia, killed 25 people and wounded 280. A period of calm has ended in Ingushetia, Chechnya and Dagestan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZBEK VAKHAYEV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Ramzan A. Kadyrov is the president of Chechnya.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AFP -- GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Rising Violence in the Caucasus: Violence in the north Caucasus region, which includes Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan, has risen significantly this year.(Source: Center for Strategic and International Studies)
 MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); TORTURE (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LIBERALISM (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



795 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: What's Next, Sidewalk Tolls?

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Kelsey Graham and his wife were on their way to Lincoln Center when they decided that a la carte government had gone too far. 
 For years, the Grahams had driven from their home in Nyack, N.Y., availed themselves of the free weekend parking at the Tarrytown train station, then taken the train into Manhattan. But this spring, the village of Tarrytown began charging nonresidents $8 to park on Yankee Stadium game days -- a fee that startled, and infuriated, the Grahams.
 ''It's ridiculous -- we're supposed to keep track of when the Yankees are playing?'' said Mr. Graham. ''Every time you turn around, the government is charging you for something. It's just another way to nickel and dime people.'' 
 His lament is hardly unique. With the economy floundering and tax revenues falling, governments and public authorities have tried to patch holes in their tattered budgets by charging new or higher fees for a broad range of services -- including taking a civil service exam and operating a nuclear power plant.
 The purpose of the many microcharges is to help avoid, or at least limit, broader tax increases. But with escalating fees for things like tanning bed inspections, pistol permits and marriage certificates, daily life can start to seem like a labyrinth of public-sector panhandlers.
 There are increased payments required from cradle (birth certificates) to grave (plots in municipal cemeteries); in the workplace (licenses for private investigators, lifeguards and tax preparers) and at leisure spots (entrances to parks and public golf courses).
 Want to indulge? Better open your wallet: Higher fees for cigarette and alcohol retailers in New York are being passed on in the form of higher prices for smokers and drinkers. 
 Perhaps you thought you might escape the onslaught of incrementalism by leaving the area. Prepare to ante up: The National Conference of State Legislatures says similar increases are being imposed by local governments across the nation. Besides, getting there will cost you more anyway because fees for driver's licenses, vehicle registrations and rental cars have jumped. 
 Even animals are not immune: New York State this year established a $10 entrance fee for each horse running in a parimutuel race. 
 Elected officials say the fee increases are a fair way to raise revenue because they affect the actual users of a service rather than the public at large. But many watchdog groups argue that the fees are too often used as a crutch by politicians hoping to avoid making hard decisions about cutting spending. 
 ''They're an easy out,'' said Charles M. Brecher, research director for the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan organization that analyzes municipal spending. Dr. Brecher is a professor of public and health administration at the Wagner School of Public Service at New York University.
 The town of Montclair, N.J., this year closed its budget gap through a mix of devices: trimming expenses, raising property taxes, and boosting fees on limousine and garage-sale permits as well as landscaping and arcade licenses. 
 In New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was thwarted in his effort to institute congestion pricing and a 5-cent surcharge on plastic bags. But in addition to reducing the city work force and raising some taxes, his budget includes increased fees for water, sewer service, some garbage-carting permits and more. 
 Westchester County eliminated its $3 million annual subsidy to Playland Amusement Park in Rye by increasing prices: The entrance fee has gone from free to $3, and the rides, once pay-as-you-go, now require a day pass ($25 for county residents, $30 for outsiders). 
 On Long Island, Suffolk County expects to collect $800,000 by raising greens fees on golf courses and admission charges at county parks and recreational facilities. Over in Nassau, officials hope to reap an extra $400,000 by increasing charges for tattoo parlor inspections and raising admission charges to county recreational facilities and fees for inspecting X-ray machines.
 Perhaps the biggest clash over what critics have taken to calling ''fee-based government'' has come in Connecticut. Gov. M. Jodi Rell, seeking to uphold her promise not to increase taxes, called in March for more than $100 million in additional fees across the state, including increases for motor vehicle registrations and for licenses for dozens of occupations, including hairdressing, accounting and working as a stable hand.
 But the proposal prompted so many objections that Mrs. Rell and Connecticut lawmakers have been unable to complete a budget; the state has been operating without one since July 1. The governor met with legislative leaders last week, and the two sides were said to be considering a mix of fee increases and tax increases. 
 Even those who praise Mrs. Rell's efforts to avoid raising taxes are not surprised that the proposed fees caused a furor. 
 ''There's really only so much that people can take,'' said Susan Kniep, president of the Federation of Connecticut Taxpayer Associations, which advocates steeper cuts in the public payroll to tame public budgets. 
 In New Jersey, legislators heard such an uproar over the Motor Vehicle Commission's decision to raise the cost of registering a motorcycle (to $65 from $31.50) that they pushed to strip the commission of its power over the fees. The bill, which was not adopted, omitted any mention of the fact that the same state legislature was crafting a budget that, ultimately, included other fee increases that would bring millions of dollars into the state's coffers. 
 While some economists believe the worst of the recession may now be over, most governments are bracing for more lean years, meaning that the search for more fee-based revenue is likely to intensify. Across the country, elected officials have already floated novel proposals: in Nevada, a tax on legal brothels; in California, a $50 per ounce tax on medical marijuana. Florida lawmakers are now mulling a fee for each cow or pig slaughtered in the state, and Kentucky officials are considering imposing a surcharge for downloading a ring tone on a cellphone.
 What that portends for the New York area boggles the imagination. A provincialism fee for tourists in Manhattan who mispronounce Houston Street? A saltwater taffy surcharge along the Jersey Shore? 
 ''I don't want to think about it,'' said Ms. Kniep, president of the Connecticut taxpayers' group. ''I don't want to give anyone any new ideas.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the new or higher fees being levied by governments and public authorities in the New York region as the economy falters rendered the name of Connecticut's governor incorrectly. She is M. Jodi Rell, not Jodi M. (The M stands for Mary.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UP: Higher fees in New York include those for alcohol retailers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MB1)
TICKET TO RIDE: Westchester eliminated its subsidy to Playland, which now costs $3 to enter. Cigarette costs are up, partly because of fees charged to sellers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.MB10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRAINS (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); TAX INCREASES (73%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (73%); GOLF (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (69%); CEMETERIES (69%); SMOKING (68%); TAX LAW (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); DRIVERS LICENSES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POWER PLANTS (52%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (52%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (52%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



796 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Clash in Alabama Over Landfill's Plans to Take Tennessee Coal Ash

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: UNIONTOWN, Ala. 

 BODY:
Almost every day, a train pulls into a rail yard in rural Alabama, hauling 8,500 tons of a disaster that occurred 350 miles away to a final resting place, the Arrowhead Landfill here in Perry County, which is very poor and almost 70 percent black. 
 To county leaders, the train's loads, which will total three million cubic yards of coal ash from a massive spill at a power plant in east Tennessee last December, are a tremendous financial windfall. A per-ton ''host fee'' that the landfill operators pay the county will add more than $3 million to the county's budget of about $4.5 million.
 The ash has created more than 30 jobs for local residents in a county where the unemployment rate is 17 percent and a third of all households are below the poverty line. A sign on the door of the landfill's scale house says job applications are no longer being accepted -- 1,000 were more than enough. 
 But some residents worry that their leaders are taking a short-term view, and that their community has been too easily persuaded to take on a wealthier, whiter community's problem. ''Money ain't worth everything,'' said Mary Gibson Holley, 74, a black retired teacher in Uniontown. ''In the long run, they ain't looking about what this could do to the community if something goes wrong.''
 County leaders, who are mostly black, bristle at accusations of environmental injustice, saying that the ash is perfectly safe and that criticism has been fostered by outsiders, or even competitors who wanted the ash disposal contract for themselves.
 ''That's the means to their end, that they can keep it out of black communities on the charge of environmental racism,'' said Albert Turner Jr., a black county commissioner, inviting a visitor to sniff a sample of the heavy, mudlike ash in a souvenir glass jar. ''They would benefit on the backs of the stupidity of African-Americans who let this trail of money get away.'' 
 Bob Deacy, vice president of clean strategies and project development for the Tennessee Valley Authority, whose Kingston Fossil Plant was the site of the ash spill that covered almost 300 acres of land and waterways, said Arrowhead was chosen because it was reachable by train instead of truck, because it underbid other sites and because, unlike closer landfills, it had the capacity to handle all the ash. 
 The Environmental Protection Agency, which is overseeing the cleanup and is supposed to ensure that its own decisions do not harm minority communities, defended its approval by saying that the site was ''isolated'' and that six local elected officials, including a majority of the county commissioners, ''strongly supported'' the ash contract. 
 Even environmentalists acknowledge that the site, in Perry County, is in many ways ideal. Most of the problems from coal ash, which contains toxins like arsenic and lead that have contaminated the water supply at more than 60 sites nationwide, come from wet, unlined ponds like the one that ruptured in Tennessee. It is far better, environmentalists say, that the ash should go somewhere like Arrowhead, a dry storage site dug into a nearly impermeable bed known as the Selma chalk, some 600 feet above the water table, lined with clay and polymer and equipped with a leachate collection system to suck up any water that filters through the ash and dislodges contaminants. 
 But in Perry County, a lack of trust has permeated the debate. Residents said they feared equipment failure, flooding, tornadoes or lack of oversight at the landfill, where the Alabama Department of Environmental Management, whose notably lax regulation of coal ash permits most landfills to use it as a cover material for other waste, will be responsible for enforcement.
 Many said they did not believe the assertions by local officials that the ash was perfectly safe, particularly after one councilman insisted, contrary to widely publicized test results that showed dangerous levels of arsenic, that it contained no arsenic whatsoever. 
 ''I won't feel comfortable,'' wrote W. Compson Sartain, a columnist for The Perry County Herald, ''until I see a delegation from E.P.A. and T.V.A. standing on the courthouse square, each member stirring a heaping spoonful of this coal ash into a glass of Tennessee river water this stuff has already fallen into, and gargling with it.''
 Robert Bamberg, a white catfish farmer and the organizer of Concerned Citizens of Perry County, a biracial group of landfill opponents, said the group had identified 212 residences within 1.5 miles of the site. ''We're being taken advantage of by several groups of powers that be,'' Mr. Bamburg said. ''There's a sense among the population that we've been thrown under the bus.''
 It has proved difficult for the voters to exert their influence. Even before the coal ash came to town, two pro-landfill commissioners were voted out of office on a tide of anger from residents who felt that the 1,400-acre project had been shoved through with little public comment. 
 One of the new commissioners was Fairest Cureton, a black high school teacher who ran on an anti-landfill platform. Since taking office in 2007, and since landfill managers flew him and other officials to the site of the ash spill in Roane County, Tenn., on a private plane, Mr. Cureton, now the chairman of the commission, has adjusted his thinking. 
 ''This gives us an opportunity to fund our schools, to help build our roads, to create some things in Perry County that will enhance the lives of individuals,'' Mr. Cureton said.
 James Murdock, a black minister who catches whiffs of the landfill on evening walks with his wife, Ella, said he felt betrayed by such turnabouts. ''You don't even know who to vote for anymore,'' he said.
 Mr. Cureton reasoned that the ash, a byproduct of burning coal to produce electricity, could not be more dangerous than the remnants of the coal that heated his schoolroom growing up, or the ash his father, a farmer, sprinkled at the base of his fruit trees. 
 But coal ash from a power plant has a higher concentration of toxins because mercury, arsenic and other substances that are filtered out by air pollution controls end up in the ash. Since the spill in Tennessee, the Environmental Protection Agency has promised to issue new regulations for coal ash, potentially classifying it as a hazardous waste.
 Mr. Cureton replaced Johnny Flowers, who had been a commissioner for 18 years, and is proud of his efforts to bring development, including the landfill and a privately run prison (a third major employer is a catfish feed plant), to Perry County. Mr. Flowers, who like Mr. Cureton is black, said he did not mind his defeat at the polls because he had done what he thought was right. ''The community,'' he said, ''don't know what's good for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Arrowhead Landfill in Uniontown, Ala., where coal ash from a spill in Tennessee has created more than 30 jobs and is expected to add more than $3 million to the county's coffers.
James Murdock, left, a minister, and Robert Bamberg, a catfish farmer, oppose the ash. The fears include contaminated catfish ponds
 county leaders say that there is no danger and that the project will help finance improvements.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEGGAN HALLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); TRAINS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



797 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Lindsey, Jonathan Rothwell

 BODY:
Elizabeth Sarah Lindsey and Jonathan Townsend Rothwell were married Saturday at St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church in Princeton, N.J. The Rev. Rene Pulgarin, the church's parochial vicar, performed the ceremony. 
 The couple met at Princeton University, from which the bride received a master's in public affairs and urban planning, and where the bridegroom is pursuing a Ph.D. in public policy. 
 Ms. Lindsey, 29, is keeping her name. She is a policy adviser to the director of the District of Columbia Department of Employment Services in Washington. Until July she was the associate assistant treasurer for the State of New Jersey, working in Trenton. She graduated from Swarthmore.
 She is a daughter of Mary E. Lindsey and John L. Lindsey, both of Rochester. Her father is a sheet metal worker there for Advantech Industries, a parts manufacturer for the aerospace, electronics and defense industries. Her mother is the office manager for the Rochester law firm Vincent J. Criscuolo & Associates.
 Mr. Rothwell, also 29, is a senior research analyst in the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
 He graduated from Penn State. He is a son of Sandra L. Rothwell and William J. Rothwell of Louisville, Ky. His father retired as a vice president for fund-raising at the University of Louisville. 
 The couple met in September 2006, in an urban economic development class at Princeton. He immediately caught her eye. Ms. Lindsey said it was a ''match made in public-policy-nerd heaven.'' 
 Although they had different economic philosophies -- he's more free market -- they eventually began dating. 
 In August 2008, he asked her to take a canoe ride on the Delaware & Raritan Canal, which runs through Princeton. As they paddled along the canal, Ms. Lindsey noticed a strange yet familiar-looking man in sunglasses staring down at them from a footbridge. As they passed the bridge, the man, wearing jeans and flip-flops and carrying a plastic grocery bag, began sprinting down the side of the canal toward the next footbridge, about a quarter-mile away.
 ''I started thinking 'This guy is completely insane,' '' Ms. Lindsey said. ''I thought he might be one of those crazy academics from Princeton doing some kind of Ph.D. experiment.''
 As they went under a second bridge, Ms. Lindsey looked up and saw a ring box dangling on a string, some four feet above their heads. She took the box off a hook, opened it and found a diamond engagement ring inside. As she examined the ring, pink rose petals began falling from the bridge and into the canoe. The ring and petal bearer was a friend of Mr. Rothwell, who thought he was going to propose under the first bridge.
 ''He thought I would stop when he saw us coming,'' Mr. Rothwell said. ''But how do you bring a canoe to a screeching halt? I had to text him to tell him to hurry over to the next bridge. He finally got it right, and it all worked out in the end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GINGERPIXX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); LAWYERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); BOATING & RAFTING (63%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (63%); AVIONICS (53%)

COMPANY: VINCENT J CRISCUOLO & ASSOCIATES (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



798 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Majority Rule on Health Care Reform

 BODY:
The talk in Washington is that Senate Democrats are preparing to push through health care reforms using parliamentary procedures that will allow a simple majority to prevail in their chamber, as it does in the House, instead of the 60 votes needed to overcome the filibuster that Senate Republicans are sure to mount.
 With the death of Senator Edward Kennedy, the Democrats do not have the votes just among their 57 members (and the two independents) to break a filibuster, and not all of these can be counted on to vote in lock step. If the Democrats want to enact health care reform this year, they appear to have little choice but to adopt a high-risk, go-it-alone, majority-rules strategy. 
 We say this with considerable regret because a bipartisan compromise would be the surest way to achieve comprehensive reforms with broad public support. But the ideological split between the parties is too wide -- and the animosities too deep -- for that to be possible. 
 In recent weeks, it has become inescapably clear that Republicans are unlikely to vote for substantial reform this year. Many seem bent on scuttling President Obama's signature domestic issue no matter the cost. As Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, so infamously put it: ''If we're able to stop Obama on this, it will be his Waterloo. It will break him.''
 Superficially seductive calls to scale down the effort until the recession ends or to take time for further deliberations should be ignored. There has been more than enough debate and the recession will almost certainly be over before the major features of reform kick in several years from now. Those who fear that a trillion-dollar reform will add to the nation's deficit burden should remember that these changes are intended to be deficit-neutral over the next decade.
 Delay would be foolish politically. The Democrats have substantial majorities in the House and the Senate this year. Next year, as the midterm elections approach, it will be even harder for legislators to take controversial stands. After the elections, if history is any guide, the Democratic majorities could be smaller. 
 Mr. Obama should know from sad experience the pitfalls of seeking bipartisan cooperation from a Republican Party that has sloughed off most of its moderates and is dominated by its right wing. His stimulus package was supported by no Republicans in the House and only three Republicans in the Senate, so-called moderates whose support was won by shrinking the package below the size at which it would have done the most good.
 Now the same sort of damaging retreat may be happening in the Senate Finance Committee. Three committees in the House and one in the Senate have used their Democratic majorities to approve liberal health reform bills. The only bipartisan negotiations are between a rump group of three Democrats and three Republicans on the Finance Committee who hail from largely rural states with small populations, namely Iowa, Maine, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota and Wyoming. Somehow this small, unrepresentative group has emerged as the focal point for bipartisan health care reform.
 The six have been working hard to reach agreement, but the concessions demanded by Republicans will most likely make the reform effort weaker and smaller. They could, for example, reduce the scale of the program and the subsidies for low-income people; drop the idea of a government-run insurance plan to compete with private insurers; and eliminate a requirement that employers offer coverage to their workers or pay a penalty. 
 Even if the group reaches an agreement, which is by no means certain, its compromise is unlikely to win support from a Republican Party that seems bent on delay. Leading Senate Republicans have seen little in the emerging compromise that they are willing to support.
 Two of the Republicans working on the compromise -- Charles Grassley of Iowa and Michael Enzi of Wyoming -- have said they would not vote for a bill that could not win broad support, which Mr. Enzi defined as 75 to 80 senators, implying that roughly half of the Senate's Republicans must sign on. That is unlikely -- no matter how good or bipartisan or middle-of-the-road any bill may be.
 The Democrats are thus well advised to start preparing to use an arcane parliamentary tactic known as ''budget reconciliation'' that would let them sidestep a Republican filibuster and approve reform proposals by a simple majority.
 The approach is risky. Reconciliation bills are primarily intended to deal with budget items that affect the deficit, not with substantive legislation like health care reform. Senators could challenge as ''extraneous'' any provisions that do not change spending or revenues over the next five years, or would have a budget impact that is ''merely incidental'' to some broader policy purpose, or would increase the deficit in Year 6 and beyond.
 So how much of the proposed health care reforms could plausibly fit into a reconciliation bill? The answer seems to be: quite a lot, though nobody knows for sure. 
 Knowledgeable analysts from both parties believe that these important elements of reform will probably pass muster because of their budgetary impact: expansion of Medicaid for the poor; subsidies to help low-income people buy insurance; new taxes to pay for the trillion-dollar program; Medicare cuts to help finance the program; mandates on individuals to buy insurance and on employers to offer coverage; and tax credits to help small businesses provide insurance. 
 Even the public plan so reviled by Republicans could probably qualify, especially if it is given greater power than currently planned to dictate the prices it will pay to hospitals, doctors, drug companies and other providers, thus saving the government lots of money in subsidies.
 Greater uncertainty surrounds two other critical elements: new rules requiring insurance companies to accept all applicants and charge them the same premiums without regard to medical condition, and the creation of new exchanges in which people forced to buy their own insurance could find cheaper policies than are currently available.
 Republicans claim that they want to make medical insurance and care cheaper and give ordinary Americans more choices. But given their drive to kill health reform at any cost, they might well argue that these are programmatic changes whose budgetary impact is ''merely incidental.'' Democrats would very likely counter that they are so intertwined with other reforms that they are ''a necessary term or condition'' for other provisions that do affect spending or revenues, which could allow them to be kept in the bill.
 Nobody knows how the Senate parliamentarian, an obscure official who advises the presiding officer, would rule on any of these complicated issues. But if he were to take a narrow view and eliminate important features, it could leave the reform package riddled with holes -- perhaps providing subsidies to buy insurance on exchanges that do not exist, for example. Thus there are plans afoot to use a second bill to pass whatever reforms will not fit under the rubric of reconciliation, but those would be subject to filibuster and would have to depend on their general popularity (insurance reforms are enormously popular) to win 60 votes for passage. 
 Another hurdle is that the reconciliation legislation covers only the next five years, while the Democratic plans are devised to be deficit-neutral over 10 years. The practical effect is that the Democrats will almost surely need to find added revenues or budget cuts within the first five years. 
 Another Senate rule, which applies whether reconciliation is used or not, requires that the reforms enacted now not cause an increase in the deficit for decades to come, a difficult but probably not impossible hurdle to surmount. 
 Clearly the reconciliation approach is a risky and less desirable way to enact comprehensive health care reforms. The only worse approach would be to retreat to modest gestures in an effort to win Republican acquiescence. It is barely possible that the Senate Finance Committee might pull off a miracle and devise a comprehensive solution that could win broad support, or get one or more Republicans to vote to break a filibuster. If not, the Democrats need to push for as much reform as possible through majority vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); FILIBUSTER (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JIM DEMINT (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



799 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Mixed Messages

BYLINE: By R. GLENN HUBBARD. 
R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia Business School, was the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President , George W. Bush.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S health care plan is in trouble. If he really wants to accomplish reform, he might start by learning some lessons from the past. I witnessed firsthand President George W. Bush's attempt, and unfortunate failure, to reform Social Security. Now, Mr. Obama is making similar mistakes in his effort to fix our health care system. 
 One of the most important lessons is that words matter -- maybe too much. Mr. Bush allowed his unwavering emphasis on ''personal accounts'' to derail a compromise that could have helped solve the larger problem of restoring the fiscal sustainability of Social Security.
 In his campaign for the presidency, George W. Bush rightly noted the low rates of return that would be available to younger workers. He proposed an alternative: Allow a portion of payroll taxes to be invested in personal savings accounts. The idea was that at least some of this money would be invested in the stock market, thus enabling households to earn a higher rate of return on their contribution than they would receive from traditional Social Security. 
 While many economists (including me) have supported personal accounts as a better way to pre-finance Social Security benefits than government investment in the private sector, personal accounts on their own do not offer higher, risk-adjusted returns. Much of Social Security's projected lower returns to younger workers is a result of the high returns received by current retirees, who will continue to be paid. (Social Security is a pay-as-you-go system, in which current taxes go principally to finance current benefits.) Furthermore, investing in stocks, which over long periods can yield more than bonds, for example, is no free lunch. 
 As the Council of Economic Advisers chairman in 2002, I tried to make this very point to President Bush. In the Oval Office, I showed him two $1 bills and asked: ''If one of these dollars is invested in bonds and the other in stocks, what is the present value of either today?'' The answer, I told him, is $1. The higher return on stocks reflects greater risk than investments like bonds, and investors cannot be as confident about the outcome of their investments.
 The bigger problem for Social Security, then and now, is that the present value of its unfinanced liabilities is in the trillions of dollars. President Bush understood this, but his primary emphasis on personal accounts sent a mixed message. After all, these accounts on their own would not solve Social Security's long-run financial problems. Mr. Bush's fixation thus dimmed prospects for the compromise that was probably available to advance Social Security reform. 
 Many Democrats saw personal accounts as the thin end of a wedge to dismantle traditional Social Security. Mr. Bush should have just jettisoned the term ''personal accounts'' and offered add-on expanded saving incentives -- like letting individuals contribute more pretax dollars to I.R.A.'s and other pre-existing savings vehicles. 
 He also could have focused on low-income workers, as Social Security's central role is to be a safety net for seniors. He could have done this by supporting a higher benefit for low-income workers than their record of contributions might offer, or by matching their contributions to private savings incentives with refundable tax credits. To pay for these changes and restore Social Security's long-run financial stability, Congress could have slowed the growth rate of benefits for middle- and upper-income workers. Such a compromise would have achieved the goals of increasing private saving for retirement and shoring up Social Security's ability to meet the retirement needs of millions of Americans. Yet Mr. Bush's emphasis on both personal accounts and the future viability of Social Security allowed opponents to exploit inconsistencies in his reform agenda. 
 President Obama is now making the same kind of mistake with his relentless emphasis on the public option and universal coverage -- two pet causes during his campaign. The big issue for health care reform is high costs relative to the value of health care received. The currently insured face high premiums, which act as a powerful disincentive for the uninsured to buy coverage. Large, looming fiscal burdens from Medicare and Medicaid are another burden on both taxpayers and the economy as a whole.
 The Obama administration seems to understand the importance of reducing health care costs. But the president's universal coverage and public option proposals are directly at odds with his emphasis on cost containment. A public option that reduces costs through public subsidies simply shifts the expense to taxpayers (still us!), while increasing the share of health care the government (again back to us) would pay for with taxes. Mr. Obama's rhetoric is also extremely divisive: many Republicans see the public option as the thin end of a wedge to crowd out private health arrangements and are thus fiercely opposed to his reform efforts. 
 Universal coverage also undercuts the president's mantra of cost containment. Universal insurance coverage would enshrine the present inefficient system by increasing aggregate demand for, and thus the prices of, health care services. The increases in insurance costs for those already covered are estimated at 10 percent from this effort alone. 
 There is, however, a clear route to compromise. Limiting the tax exclusion for employer-provided insurance would promote cost sharing and reduce the cost of health insurance. Regulatory reforms to make lower-cost insurance options available to individual purchasers would also help. These cost reductions would make coverage available to a greater number of people. Revenue from limiting the tax exclusion could be used to offer modest tax credits to the currently uninsured, to subsidize coverage and to support the expansion of community health centers. 
 In the case of Social Security, we should have had two debates. The first would have been about how to shore up Social Security's long-term standing. Again, reductions in benefit growth for middle- and upper-income individuals offered a budget-neutral progressive solution. The second should have been about how to accomplish the president's goals of more private saving for retirement. There, enhanced savings incentives -- including for lower-income households -- offered a solution. 
 In the case of health care reform, we also need two debates. The first is over how to reform insurance arrangements to reduce cost growth and provide better value for the money spent. The second should be about access to health care. To achieve these goals, the president could embrace a compromise of tax and regulatory reform for cost containment, and progressive intervention to offer assistance to low-income individuals. But President Obama, like his predecessor, has been unwilling to let go of his campaign goals even as his words fuel intense partisan debate and obstruct his ultimate objective of improving health care value. 
 President Obama's message on reform is even more inconsistent than Mr. Bush's on Social Security, and his opponents know it. The president should stop talking about a ''public option'' and ''universal coverage'' and focus on real reform. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BONDS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CORPORATE TAX (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009



800 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: A Blame Game, Deficit-Style

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
Last week, Congress and the White House released their summer budget updates, touching off a flurry of headlines and commentary suggesting President Obama's agenda would produce deficits exceeding a total of $9 trillion over a decade. Others said $2 trillion. Both calculations were misleading. 
 While Mr. Obama has proposed nothing to reduce the nation's red ink, he also has not deepened it -- yet.
 The analyses of the Congressional Budget Office and the administration's Office of Management and Budget are not exactly comparable for technical reasons. Still, both agree that much of the $9 trillion through fiscal year 2019 is the government's so-called baseline deficit -- the shortfall that would result if current law and policies don't change. 
 In effect, it is the deficit that Mr. Obama inherited -- about $6.3 trillion by the administration's calculation, $7.1 trillion by the Congressional office's.
 Some commentators apparently subtracted the Congressional office's $7.1 trillion baseline deficit from the more than $9 trillion that both agencies say would result under Mr. Obama's policies, and concluded the president would add at least $2 trillion to the decade's debt. But so would any president, Democrat or Republican, since the amount reflects policy adjustments that are costly and almost certain, and that have bipartisan support.
 Among the adjustments:
 Extending Bush tax cuts past their scheduled 2010 expiration (Mr. Obama, by letting those for the rich lapse, would reduce the revenue loss). 
 Adjusting the alternative minimum tax for inflation to spare millions of Americans higher income taxes. 
 Blocking cuts mandated for doctors' Medicare reimbursements. 
 Those fixes, in turn, would mean hundreds of billions more in interest on the added debt.
 As for Mr. Obama's big-ticket proposals, notably health care and energy policy overhauls, those do not add to the deficits under the agencies' analyses because he has proposed savings and tax increases to offset their costs.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: TOTAL DEFICIT 2010-19
What makes up the deficit?
Current law: $6,259 billion Tax cuts and spending required under current law, including Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, in excess of revenues.
Extensions to Bush tax cuts: $2,102 billion Extends 2001 and 2003 tax cuts except for top-earners.
 DEFICIT REDUCTION, 2010-19 (Source: Office of Management and Budget) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); MEDICARE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); TAX INCREASES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2009

 
