

1 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Race, Responsibility And the Military Mind

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
How much distance can a playwright cover in an hour and a half without exhausting or losing his audience? With ''Doubt'' -- the 90-minute drama about a battle of wills between a priest and nun, which won the Pulitzer Prize and Tony Award last year -- John Patrick Shanley demonstrated that in theater, brevity can be the soul not only of wit but also of rippling moral resonance.
 Now Mr. Shanley has written another play of the same length and much the same structure, ''Defiance,'' which opened last night at the Manhattan Theater Club. And yet this latest work, though as thoughtful and probing as its predecessor, feels both overcrowded and oddly diffuse. If ''Doubt,'' which continues at the Walter Kerr Theater on Broadway, has an elegant and energy-efficient sprinter's gait, ''Defiance'' progresses with a limp and a flustered air of distraction. 
 ''Maybe I have been drifting a bit,'' one of the play's central characters, a Marine officer played with exemplary rigor by Stephen Lang, says of having strayed from the course he set himself in life. The same might be said of this ambitious tale of race relations and the military mindset, set in Camp Lejeune, N.C., in 1971. Filled with the provocative questions and bristling dialogue for which Mr. Shanley is known, ''Defiance'' is not a bore. But it does wander as it wonders about its big, knotty subjects.
 Comparisons with ''Doubt,'' a nigh-perfect model of dramatic economy, are unfortunately inevitable. ''Doubt'' and ''Defiance'' are the first two parts of a projected trilogy by Mr. Shanley. In addition to sharing single-word titles that begin with ''D,'' they are both directed by Doug Hughes.
 Less superficially, they both concern monolithic institutions whose absolute authority has come under siege: the Roman Catholic Church in the early 1960's and the United States military of a decade later. Both begin with speeches to unseen congregations, one delivered by a priest and the other by a gunnery sergeant, that establish the formal languages that fuel and are themselves questioned by the plays' central debates. And the plots of both are propelled by self-appointed detectives who are religious figures.
 Yet much of the beauty of ''Doubt'' lies in its indirection. It features few topical allusions. But you infer, with the satisfaction of discovery, the play's social context from the way the characters behave. Such subtext has become explicit context in ''Defiance.''
 Draft dodging, the war in Vietnam and the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. all play baldly stated roles in defining characters and shaping the story. It's as if you are privy to an intelligent playwright's notes that have yet to be blended into the natural flow of great theater. John Lee Beatty's handsome, fancy revolving set never disguises the skeletal nature of the play it serves.
 While ''Defiance'' vibrates with the weight of its many themes, its central (and most arresting) one appears to be how the military becomes a refuge for men unwilling to think for themselves. Both Lt. Col. Morgan Littlefield (Mr. Lang) and his reluctant protege, Capt. Lee King (Chris Chalk), a young African-American officer investigating racial crimes on the base, have used their careers as a means of avoiding individual responsibility.
 Littlefield, though, sees his job as a ladder to conspicuous glory; King seeks only invisibility through his work. You know this not so much from what they do as from what they say, often rather poetically. Both men will be called upon to defy what they have always stood for, shattering their hopes of attaining their different goals. The crisis is precipitated by the base's chaplain (Chris Bauer), a sententious fellow who sees himself as an instrument of divine will but isn't above human pettiness.
 Among these men, Chaplain White is the most intriguing figure, a man whose murky motives are probably never clear to himself. But Mr. Bauer's hearty interpretation doesn't give the chaplain much shading. Nor is there real delicacy of conflict in the charismatic Mr. Chalk's stark, humorless portrayal of King. It's true that Mr. Shanley's portraits of these men feel incomplete. But you still long for the actors to bring more textured layers to their characters than they do.
 Mr. Lang has more to work with, and he runs with it. Having memorably created the role of a blissfully vicious Army officer in Aaron Sorkin's play ''A Few Good Men'' (a role played on screen by Jack Nicholson), he artfully casts the same type in a more ambiguous mold. His Littlefield has the macho brusqueness associated with military martinets of stage and screen (with George C. Scott as the ultimate incarnation). But you sense a melting center within, which gives the lie to the rigidly athletic stance.
 Sometimes, though, the uncertainty seems to come as much from the playwright as from Littlefield, who is pushed abruptly into a moment of reckoning that he addresses with the haste of someone who knows the curtain is coming down soon. It is, strangely enough, the play's only female character who emerges as its most credible. That's Littlefield's wife, Margaret, who is played by the wonderful Margaret Colin as a martini-dry cocktail of skepticism, humor, affection and the bored resignation that is often the lot of Army spouses.
 Margaret's character is, she admits, only an observer. ''You can follow the game better from the bench,'' she says. While this means that Margaret has the license to pronounce even more elaborately than the others on the nature of war-waging men, Ms. Colin never says a syllable that doesn't seem forged by her character's many years of resentment and love for the man she married. Her Margaret has even adopted traces of Littlefield's West Point stiffness, with a wryness that becomes a physical study in sweet satire.
 Ms. Colin (who did wonders with the title role of ''Jackie'' on Broadway in 1997) is an underused treasure of the American theater. Her presence here reminds us that Mr. Shanley is not only a fierce moral sage, but also a man who loves women -- the screenwriter who created the role for which Cher won an Oscar in ''Moonstruck.'' If one of the lessons to be derived from ''Defiance'' is that women are better than men, Ms. Colin certainly makes a winning case for it.

Defiance

By John Patrick Shanley; directed by Doug Hughes; sets by John Lee Beatty; costumes by Catherine Zuber; lighting by Pat Collins; original music and sound by David Van Tieghem; production stage manager, James Fitzsimmons; director of artistic operations, Mandy Greenfield; production manager, Ryan McMahon; director of development, Jill Turner Lloyd; general manager, Florie Seery; director of artistic development, Paige Evans; director of artistic production, Michael Bush. Presented by the Manhattan Theater Club, Lynne Meadow, artistic director; Barry Grove, executive producer. At New York City Center, Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212. Through April 30. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes.

WITH: Chris Bauer (Chaplain White), Chris Chalk (Capt. Lee King), Margaret Colin (Margaret Littlefield), Stephen Lang (Lt. Col. Morgan Littlefield), Trevor Long (Gunnery Sergeant) and Jeremy Strong (Pfc. Evan Davis)


CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A review on Wednesday about the Manhattan Theater Club's production of ''Defiance'' referred incorrectly to a previous role played by Stephen Lang, one of the actors. In ''A Few Good Men'' he played a Marine officer, as he does in ''Defiance,'' not an Army officer. A listing of credits with the review misstated the play's running time. It is 90 minutes, not 2 hours 30 minutes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chris Chalk, left, and Stephen Lang in John Patrick Shanley's ''Defiance.'' (Photo by Joan Marcus)(pg. E1)
 Stephen Lang, left, as a Marine colonel, Margaret Colin as his wife and Chris Chalk as his protege in ''Defiance,'' at City Center. (Photo by Joan Marcus)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (68%); VIETNAM WAR (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); RACE & RACISM (51%) Theater; Reviews

PERSON: Ben Brantley; John Patrick Shanley; Doug Hughes; Chris Chalk; Stephen Lang

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



2 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Don't Fear The Bubble That Bursts

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
YOU remember the great real estate crash of the 1990's, don't you?
 In New York, inflation-adjusted prices dropped almost a third in less than a decade. The fall was even worse in Los Angeles, and it wasn't pretty in Boston, San Francisco or Washington, either. Thousands of families were forced into much smaller homes. Many have never lived as well as they did in those giddy pre-crash years. It was a painful preview of what the dot-com meltdown of 2000 would bring.
 What? You don't remember any of this? You think I just made up those numbers about plummeting house values? 
 I didn't. The real estate crash really happened. The median house price in the New York area fell 12 percent from 1988 to 1995, which is nearly 33 percent in inflation-adjusted terms. 
 But the rest of it did not happen. Large numbers of people did not lose their homes. If anything, the drop in prices allowed a lot of families to buy their first house or trade up to one that they never could have afforded in the 1980's. You may know one or two people like this, and they probably still annoy you by bragging about the great deal they got. 
 Now it looks as if we might be about to go through it all again. Talk of a bubble about to burst is everywhere. Houses are taking longer to sell, and sales of new homes are falling. 
 But instead of panicking, most homeowners should be taking a deep breath. The real estate slump of 2006 offers a fresh chance to puncture the No. 1 myth about the nation's No. 1 topic of conversation: the idea that we should all be rooting for high house prices. The myth is good for real estate agents, but it creates needless anxiety for everyone else. It's time that most of us learned to stop worrying and love the bursting bubble. 
 ''Even in the most vulnerable markets, most people just have to look through it and ignore it,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Moody's Economy.com, ''because it's of very little relevance to them.''
 That's the good news. The bad news is that a big part of the country's economic policy has been built on the myth. 
 THE best way to think about the value of your house -- at least in the short term -- might be to compare it to Monopoly money. Having a big pile of it feels good, but you can't really spend it. 
 As long as you are living in the house, you have no way to lock in your gains. Yes, you can borrow against those gains, but new debt is not exactly found money. And when you move, odds are that you will go someplace that has a real estate market very much like yours. Whatever profit you make you will just plow back into a new home.
 This is why the housing boom of the last decade, unlike the dot-com frenzy, has not made many people rich. Everyone knows stories about Microsoft millionaires, AOL millionaires, even Pets.com millionaires. But do you know anyone who retired at age 35 after selling her condo in San Francisco? 
 Obviously, there are exceptions -- people who do have a very real stake in the short-term value of their house. (And a rapid drop in house prices would be a problem because of the broader economic damage it would cause.) Somebody who is planning to move from California to Iowa, and retire on the proceeds, would be hurt by falling prices in California. The same goes for anyone about to move to a much smaller house.
 Worst off would be the families who have borrowed heavily against their homes. For them, a price drop could erase all of their equity, leaving them with no money for a down payment when they move. This happened to some Californians in the 1990's.
 But the victims of a moderate price decline don't come close to making up a majority of Americans. At most, 10 percent of households are so leveraged that their mortgage debt equals at least nine-tenths of their home's value, Mr. Zandi said. 
 Compare this with the more than 30 percent of families that don't own a home and clearly have nothing to gain from further price increases. Or all the young families that hope to move sometime soon into a house that's larger, and more expensive, than their current one. 
 So there is a good argument that society has a compelling interest in keeping house prices from getting too high. Reasonable prices allow young, middle-class families to buy a house without going into too much debt. They also let people live where they want. Right now, there are a growing number of workers making long commutes from places like Hagerstown, Md., and Stockton, Calif., solely because they cannot afford a decent-size house in a close-in suburb.
 They can blame our tax policy for part of their plight. It pushes up home prices by handing out $80 billion a year in subsidies for home ownership, mainly through the mortgage interest deduction. People who get that deduction love it, for the same reason that any of us would love a government policy that sent us a few thousand dollars every year.
 But there really is no sound argument in favor of it. It overwhelmingly benefits well-off families who would buy a home even if it didn't exist. About 70 percent of tax filers get nothing from the deduction, in large part because many don't make enough money to itemize their tax returns. Consider that other countries without the deduction, like Australia and Britain, have home ownership rates just as high as this country does. 
 A more sensible policy would use the $80 billion in a way that helped people much more than artificially high house prices do -- by expanding health insurance, say, or cutting taxes across the board. In fact, a tax panel appointed by President Bush recently called for the mortgage deduction to be replaced by a smaller and fairer tax break. 
 Unfortunately, Mr. Bush shows no interest in getting behind his own panel's ideas. He seems more inclined to listen to the National Association of Realtors, which has warned that reducing the mortgage deduction would surely cause house prices to fall.
 To which the rest of us should say: And what's so bad about that?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



3 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Legalities Of Corporate Tax Incentives Before Court

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The Supreme Court takes up a major case today about the legality of tens of billions of dollars in tax breaks that states and local governments award businesses each year to build new factories or offices, or just to stay put.
 Supporters consider the subsidies vital economic development tools while critics denounce them as corporate welfare that helps some towns but weakens the national economy. 
The case before the Supreme Court was filed by a group of Ohio residents and small-business owners who are challenging $280 million in state and local tax breaks to DaimlerChrysler for investing $1.2 billion in Toledo to expand a Jeep factory in 1998. 
 Both sides say that if the court strikes down the Ohio subsidies it will lead to major changes in the use of state and local tax incentives to promote investment.
 At issue is whether tax breaks for companies that build or expand factories within Ohio discriminate against other Ohio companies that choose to invest in a different state. State tax laws that favor in-state businesses over those in other states have vexed America from the start and were a major reason that government under the Articles of Confederation proved unworkable.
 The case has made for strange bedfellows. Business and labor have argued in favor of such subsidies, while advocates of limited government joined with proponents of greater government spending for the poor to argue against the subsidies. Briefs supporting the subsidies were filed by 38 states, New York City, Grand Rapids, Mich., and Wayne County, which includes Detroit. 
 Charlotte Cuno and the others who filed the case say that the tax breaks are the equivalent of a state tariff, not unlike the tariffs that states erected under the Articles of Confederation to protect in-state businesses from competition from 1781 to 1789, when the Constitution took effect. 
 The Constitution grants Congress the power to regulate commerce ''among the several states.'' Under a legal theory known as the negative commerce clause, the Supreme Court has repeatedly struck down state taxes and regulations that have the effect of taxes when it found them to be protectionist, favoring businesses within a state and thus discouraging national commerce.
 The Cuno group filed the action in state court, only to have DaimlerChrysler, Toledo and Ohio win a procedural fight to have it moved to federal court. A Federal District Court judge dismissed the case, but the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled in October 2004 that the tax credit was a discriminatory tax that coerced companies in Ohio to not invest elsewhere.
 Citing the example of two similar Ohio businesses planning to expand, the appeals court found that ''the business that chooses to expand its local presence will enjoy a reduced tax burden'' while ''a competitor that invests out of state will face a comparatively higher tax burden.''
 The Cuno group argued that the Ohio tax breaks ''distort the free flow of investment in an open national economy'' and ''impose high costs'' in lost tax revenue.
 ''The inevitable result'' of such subsidies, they argued, ''is a significant shift of the costs of state and local government to other classes of taxpayers'' like themselves and ''a substantial reduction in states' and localities' ability to deliver important public services'' like education. 
 The business owners argue that they are effectively forced to subsidize other businesses, including their competitors.
 The Cuno group cited a study by Prof. Kenneth P. Thomas, a political scientist at the University of Missouri in St. Louis, estimating that nationwide, such subsidies totaled $48.8 billion in 1996. Professor Thomas said yesterday that the cost of such subsidies had grown significantly in the last decade and far exceeded the $31 billion that states collected in corporate income taxes last year.
 Toledo and the state argue that ''the negative Commerce Clause prohibits barriers, not welcome mats.'' In their brief they argued that the Ohio tax credit awarded to DaimlerChrysler complied with a 1991 Supreme Court finding that ''it is a laudatory goal in the design of a tax system to promote investment that will provide jobs and prosperity.''
 ''Far from 'economic protectionism,' the tax credit is freely available to all who invest in Ohio,'' the city and state argued.
 DaimlerChrysler, in its brief, said that ''the taxation regimes struck down by this court have taken several forms: a tax on an industry with different rates for in-state and out-of-state actors'' or similarly discriminating tax credits and rebates.
 The Ohio tax break, the carmaker said, is lawful because it ''is not the type of anticompetitive protectionist measure the Commerce Clause was meant to prohibit.''
 The state investment tax credit, the company said, ''functions merely as a subsidy to in-state investment -- an exercise of state police power never before questioned'' by the Supreme Court. 
 Among those filing briefs in defense of the subsidies are the United Automobile Workers, the United States Chamber of Commerce, 28 states and the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit research organization that favors lower taxes. 
 Briefs seeking to end such subsidies were filed by the North Carolina Institute for Constitutional Law, which favors limited government; the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which wants more federal spending to help the poor; and Good Jobs First, which characterizes subsidies as a scheme that benefits corporate owners while destroying jobs.
 The nation's two major providers of television via satellite, DirecTV and EchoStar Satellite, filed briefs without taking sides. They told the court that they regard tax breaks for their competitors, cable television companies, as a form of discriminatory taxation. 
 The high court provided itself with a way to dispose of the Ohio case without ruling on the substance. The first issue the court wants to address is whether the Ohio residents and business owners have standing in the cases, DaimlerChrysler v. Cuno, No. 04-1704, and Wilkins v. Cuno, No. 04-1724. 
 Just being a citizen or taxpayer is not enough to have standing to sue. This issue was never raised until the case was accepted by the high court.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DaimlerChrysler received $280 million in state and local tax breaks for investing $1.2 billion in Toledo to expand a Jeep factory in 1998. (Photo by J. D. Pooley/Associated Press)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX INCENTIVES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); JUDGES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%) Taxation; Suits and Litigation; States (US); Local Government; Factories and Industrial Plants ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Small Business; Taxation; Capital Investment; Articles of Confederation (1781-89); Automobiles; Corporations; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US); Daimlerchrysler Ag

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (77%) OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ohio; Toledo (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



4 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Computing Error

 BODY:
The outsourcing of computing work overseas may not be as bad as you think. In fact, it probably isn't bad at all. Consider one recent study that says the problem isn't so much the competition from high-tech workers in places as far-flung as India and Romania as it is the discouragement caused by the doomsayers themselves. 
 The Association for Computing Machinery, the professional organization that issued the report, says that there are more information technology jobs today than at the height of the dot-com boom. While 2 to 3 percent of American jobs in the field migrate to other nations each year, new jobs have thus far more than made up for the loss.
Think of the local companies that service people's home computers in towns all over America, the way mechanics have long worked under the hoods of our cars. When three people start a company, it attracts no fanfare, but put such companies all together and there is a big effect in aggregate. The Small Business Administration says that those smaller enterprises provide around 75 percent of the net new jobs added to the economy. 
 And when a big company slowly adds workers to a new division because, say, the middle class in India is buying more high-priced gadgets, the move garners little attention. Globalization advocates have long contended that everyone benefits from greater growth worldwide.
 That picture, of course, stands in contrast with the more familiar gloomy depiction of runaway outsourcing. Perhaps that explains what the report says is declining interest in computer science among American college students. Students may think, Why bother if all the jobs are in India? But the computer sector is booming, while the number of students interested in going into the field is falling. 
 The industry isn't gone, but it will be if we don't start generating the necessary dynamic work force. The association says that higher-end technology jobs -- like those in research -- are beginning to go overseas and that policies to ''attract, educate and retain the best I.T. talent are critical'' to future success. Given the post 9/11 approach to immigration and the state of math and science education in America, that is hardly encouraging. 
 Information technology jobs won't go away unless we let them. Computing in the past five years has become, according to the report, ''a truly global industry.'' In the next few years, jobs won't just land in our laps. We have nothing to fear but the fear of competing itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); MATHEMATICS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Editorials; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY (83%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (55%) Association for Computing Machinery

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



5 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Who's Afraid of a Gas Tax?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN; Maureen Dowd is on a book tour.

 BODY:
My gut told me this was the case, but it's great to see it confirmed by the latest New York Times/CBS News poll: Americans not only know that our oil addiction is really bad for us, but they would be willing to accept a gasoline tax if some leader would just frame the stakes for the country the right way.
 I am sure one reason President Bush suddenly chose to build his State of the Union address around ending our oil addiction and moving toward a renewable-energy future was because his private polling told him the same thing. But Mr. Bush simply occupied this ground rhetorically -- before Democrats could get there -- without actually offering a real solution. 
The only real solution is raising our gasoline tax, which is a paltry 18.4 cents a gallon and has not been increased since 1993. Only if the total price of gasoline is brought into the $3.50-to-$4-per-gallon range -- and kept there -- will large numbers of Americans demand plug-in hybrid cars that run on biofuels like ethanol. When large numbers of Americans do that, U.S. automakers will move quickly down the innovation curve.
 ''Impossible,'' campaign consultants say. ''A gasoline tax is political suicide.'' No, it all depends on how you frame it. 
 The poll reported yesterday found that 60 percent of those polled, including one-third of Republicans, disapproved of how Mr. Bush is handling our energy crisis. Only 27 percent approved. Most want real action -- now. In the poll, 87 percent said Washington should require car manufacturers to produce more efficient cars.
 Of course, when asked simply whether they'd favor a gasoline tax, 85 percent said no and only 12 percent said yes. But when the gas tax was framed as part of a national strategy to achieve energy security and climate security, pollsters got a very different answer. When the tax was presented as reducing U.S. dependence on foreign oil, 55 percent favored it and 37 percent said no. And when asked about a gas tax that would help reduce global warming, even more respondents supported it -- with 59 percent in favor and 34 percent opposed.
 And that is without a single Democrat or Republican leading on this issue! Imagine if someone actually led?
 Many Americans now understand: the Energy Question is the big strategic issue of our time, overtaking 9/11 and the war on terrorism. If a leader from either party would correctly frame the issue -- that a gas tax is the single most important geostrategic move we could make today -- a solid majority would support it.
 Taking on this issue is the only hope the Bush team has for producing a legacy out of its remaining years. And it is the Democrats' only hope for taking on the Republicans with a big idea -- rather than relying on G.O.P. scandals to win.
 Sadly, both sides fear the other will smear them if they run on this issue. O.K., say you're running for Congress and you propose a gas tax, but your opponent denounces you as a wimpy, tree-hugging girlie-man, a tax-and-spender. What do you say back?
 I'd say: ''Oh, really? I guess you think it is smart, tough and patriotic for us to be financing both sides in the war on terrorism -- the U.S. military with our tax dollars, and Al Qaeda, Iran and various hostile Islamist charities with our energy purchases.
 ''Now how patriotic is that? I guess you haven't noticed that today's global economic playing field has been leveled and that three billion new players from India, China and Russia have walked onto the field, buying new cars, homes and refrigerators. So if we don't break our addiction to crude oil, we're going to heat up this planet so much faster -- enough to melt the North Pole and make Katrina look like a summer breeze.
 ''Now how smart is that? I guess you don't realize that because of this climate change and the rising cost of crude, green technologies are going to be the industry of the 21st century, and a gasoline tax is the surest way to make certain that our industries innovate faster and dominate innovation in green cars, homes and appliances.
 ''Finally, I guess you haven't noticed that the wave of democratization that seemed unstoppable after the fall of the Berlin Wall has run into a black counterwave of petro-authoritarianism. This black wave of oil-financed autocrats -- Venezuela, Russia, Iran, Nigeria, Burma, Saudi Arabia -- has all the money in the world now to turn back the democratic tide. And you think doing nothing to reverse that is patriotic? Shame on you, you unpatriotic wimp. Green is the new red, white and blue, pal. What color are you?''
 That's what I'd say. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); FUEL TAX (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BIOFUELS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SALES TAX (72%); ETHANOL (72%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); WAR ON TERROR (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); ALCOHOLS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); TERRORISM (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Election Issues ; Public Opinion; Energy and Power; Taxation; Sales Tax

ORGANIZATION: New York Times/cbs News Poll

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



6 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Google's Stock Falls 7% After Disclosure That Technical Limits Restrict Its Growth
Google's shares tumbled 7 percent yesterday after the chief financial officer told investors that the company saw few additional advances in a technology that had brought it a substantial increase in advertising revenue. The financial executive, George Reyes, left, told an investor conference held by Merrill Lynch, that its revenue growth would slow as a result. [Page C1.] 


Supreme Court to Consider Business Tax Incentives
The Supreme Court takes up a major case today about the legality of tens of billions of dollars in tax breaks that states and local governments award businesses each year to build factories, or just to stay put. [C1.]

JetBlue Tries to Revive Its Profit With Higher Fares
JetBlue Airways, the low-cost carrier, is trying to raise fares in a bid to restore profit after surging fuel prices caused it to lose $42.4 million in the fourth quarter. [C1.]

The first 100 or so of thousands of small passenger jets will soon begin flying, the Federal Aviation Administration said, in what some proponents say, could alter the air-travel industry. [C5.]

Restoration of Gulf Oil Production Remains Unfinished
The huge task of fixing the country's most important energy hub is far from over. Six months after Hurricane Katrina battered the gulf with 175-mile-an-hour winds and waves higher than eight-story buildings, more than a quarter of the region's oil output is still shut. [C1.]

The Bush administration is scaling back on audits of energy companies that generate billions of dollars in sales from leases to produce oil and gas on federal property, state officials said. The changes have sparked protests from several oil-producing states and Indian tribes. [C1.]

J. P. Morgan Fills a Gap With a Fidelity Partnership
J. P Morgan announced a partnership with Fidelity Investment's brokerage arm that gives millions of individual investors access to the same new equity and fixed-income offerings its institutional clients have long received, filling a gap in the company's services. [C3.]

Existing Home Sales at Two-Year Low in January
Sales of existing homes dropped to their lowest level in nearly two years in January and the number of unsold homes on the market rose, a trade group reported. [C3.]

Apple Pushes Further Into Home Entertainment
Apple Computer furthered its push into home entertainment on the introduction of a high-fidelity stereo system for the iPod music player, as well as a new version of the Mac Mini computer with features for managing digital music and video. [C2.]

CBS Radio Sues Howard Stern Over His Departure
CBS Radio filed a lawsuit yesterday against Howard Stern charging that its former radio star used his last months on the air at CBS to build up his future employer, Sirius Satellite Radio, and gained significant financial advantages that damaged CBS Radio. Mr. Stern countered that the lawsuit was an attempt by CBS to distract attention from its poor quarterly results. [C3.]

Stocks Tumble on Mixed Economic Statistics
Mixed economic statistics caused stocks to tumble. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 104.14 points, to 10,993.41. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 13.46 points, to 1,280.66, and the Nasdaq fell 25.79 points, to 2,281.39. [C10.]

Ports Takeover Opponents Raise New Objections
Lawmakers raised new objections to the proposed takeover of some terminal operations at six United States ports by a Dubai company. [A13.]

A Former Enron Executive Testifies on Contracts
A former Enron executive gave the strongest testimony yet in a five-week-old trial that Jeffrey K. Skilling, the company's former chief executive, signed off on a controversial accounting shift involving troubled trading contracts. [C3.]

Technology Opens Opportunities for the Disabled
Thousands of people with disabilities are finding jobs and becoming independent as a result of technological advances like faster computers and broadband Internet connections that let them work at home. [C7.]

Some Medicare Patients Find Themselves in Two Plans
Tens of thousands of Medicare beneficiaries have found themselves enrolled in two prescription drug plans at the same time as a result of confusion over the new program. [A1.]

House to Vote on Pre-Empting States' Food Safety Rules
The House is expected to vote Thursday on a bill that would pre-empt state food safety regulations that are more stringent than federal standards and set a uniform set of rules across the nation. [A14.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of CBS in January and February. (Jan.: $26.20: Feb.: $24.46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (87%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (83%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (69%); HURRICANES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); MUSIC (62%); SATELLITE RADIO (60%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (83%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (83%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (50%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



7 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Conquers Caribbean and Eyes Its Classic Moment 

BYLINE: By JENS ERIK GOULD

DATELINE: MARACAY, Venezuela 

 BODY:
A raucous crowd smothered the field, and fireworks lighted up cities across the country when Boston Red Sox shortstop Alex Gonzalez scored the winning run to cap Venezuela's comeback victory over a strong Dominican team in its sweep of the Caribbean World Series last month.
 The victory in a tournament featuring this year's best winter-league teams from Venezuela, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic gave the home team some regional bragging rights and the first Caribbean Series victory for Venezuela since 1989. 
Still, the result did not surprise many in this baseball-crazed nation of 25 million, which sees itself fast producing the best baseball talent in Latin America. Although the Dominican Republic still has twice as many players in Major League Baseball, Venezuela is moving up quickly, with major league scouts and Venezuelan players here saying Venezuelans will outnumber their Dominican counterparts in 5 to 10 years. 
 In the past decade, Venezuela has doubled its number of players on major league clubs -- to 65 from 30 -- and passed Puerto Rico as a supplier of talent to the majors, according to 2005 figures from the Elias Sports Bureau. (Only the Dominican Republic and the United States supply more.) There are 134 major leaguers from the Dominican Republic. 
 Less than 20 years ago, no major league club was running an academy to train young players in Venezuela. Now 13 teams have operations here, many of which include dormitories, diamonds and weight rooms. Two more clubs say they are moving in this year. 
 Venezuelan players will have a chance to prove they are on par with the Dominicans when the two teams meet in the first round of the World Baseball Classic on Tuesday in Orlando, Fla.
 ''This is the best moment to let the world know about Venezuela,'' Detroit Tigers shortstop Carlos Guillen said during the Caribbean Series. ''Before, they asked us if we were going to pass Puerto Rico, and we passed them. So I think we're going to do the same with the Dominicans.'' 
 The 16-country World Baseball Classic, which aims to further globalize baseball, is expected to showcase Latin American talent. Latinos make up 37 percent of players under contract to major league clubs, according to Major League Baseball. Venezuela Manager Luis Sojo says all eyes will be on his team in the wake of the Caribbean Series title. 
 ''Of course everyone is thinking about Venezuela,'' Sojo said. ''We're one of the favorites.'' Unlike many Latin American nations, where soccer is king, baseball is Venezuela's national sport. President Hugo Chavez, a leftist who has become the Bush administration's leading antagonist in the region, was once a player and often chatters about baseball during nationally televised speeches. 
 Fans religiously support the Caracas Lions, the team that represented Venezuela in the Caribbean Series, by screaming at the top of their lungs at every ball and strike with a fervor that makes major league games look well mannered. Meanwhile, the stadium D.J.'s blast popular merengue or reggaeton songs as fans and sparsely dressed cheerleaders turn commercial breaks into dance parties. 
 Venezuela made an impact on the major leagues as far back as the 1950's, when Luis Aparicio, a future Hall of Famer, became the star shortstop of the Chicago White Sox.
 Decades later, in 1989, Andres Reiner, a scout born in Hungary but raised in Venezuela, opened up a Houston Astros academy in Venezuela, the first of its kind. The Astros signed players like Bobby Abreu, now a standout outfielder for the Philadelphia Phillies, and Johan Santana, the Minnesota Twins pitcher who won the American League Cy Young award in 2004. 
 Last October, Venezuela's baseball image got another boost when Ozzie Guillen, a three-time All-Star shortstop in a major league career that extended from 1985 to 2000, managed the Chicago White Sox to their first World Series title in 88 years. In doing so, Guillen became the first Latino manager to win the World Series. 
 With Venezuela on a roll, Reiner has set catching the Dominicans as his next target, pointing out that Venezuela has a population nearly three times that of the Dominican Republic (about 9 million). 
 The Dominicans say overtaking them is a tall order. Their country nearly doubled its presence on major league teams in the past decade. 
 Fernando Ravelo, the travel director for the Dominicans' Classic team, says his countrymen are more driven to leave school for baseball because they see the sport as a way out of a poor country. The Dominican Republic lacks the natural resources of Venezuela, the world's fifth-largest oil exporter. 
 Yet after Venezuela was buoyed by windfall oil profits in the 1970's, an economic downturn in the 1980's made jobs scarcer, and the dream of a major league baseball salary became more attractive. More children are taking up the sport, with the Criollitos national youth leagues reporting a 30 percent increase in participation in the last six years.
 The academies have also helped more Venezuelans adapt to American play by giving them advanced physical training and English classes.
 ''It was like a family,'' Guillen said, thinking back to his days in the Astros academy. ''It was like the education my father gave me.''
 In the Classic, the Dominicans will probably have the most dynamic lineup of any of the 16 teams, with players like Boston's David Ortiz, St. Louis's Albert Pujols, the Angels' Vladimir Guerrero and Baltimore's Miguel Tejada.
 But Angel Vargas, president of the Venezuelan baseball players association, guarantees his country will triumph behind strong pitching from Santana, the Angels' Francisco Rodriguez, the Cubs' Carlos Zambrano and the White Sox' Freddy Garcia.
 ''We can beat the Dominicans,'' Vargas said. ''I'll bet on that. We have better pitching. You'll see.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Venezuela, which swept the Caribbean Series, trails only the Dominican Republic and the United States in the number of players in the major leagues.
 In early February, Venezuela's national team defeated Puerto Rico, above, and the Dominican Republic in Maracay, Venezuela, to win its first Caribbean Series title since 1989. (Photographs by David Rochkind/Polaris)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SOCCER (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%) Baseball; Caribbean World Series; World Baseball Classic

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (57%) Jens Erik Gould

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (92%) Venezuela; Dominican Republic

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



8 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 900 words

PERSON: Octavia E. Butler

HEADLINE: Octavia E. Butler, Science Fiction Writer, Dies at 58

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Octavia E. Butler, an internationally acclaimed science fiction writer whose evocative, often troubling, novels explore far-reaching issues of race, sex, power and, ultimately, what it means to be human, died on Friday after a fall near her home in Lake Forest Park, Wash. She was 58.
 The precise cause of death has not been determined, Ms. Butler's literary agent, Merrilee Heifetz, said on Monday. She added that Ms. Butler had suffered from severe hypertension and other health problems in recent years. 
In 1995 Ms. Butler was awarded a MacArthur fellowship, the first science fiction writer to be so honored. She received two Hugo Awards from the World Science Fiction Society and two Nebula Awards from the Science Fiction Writers of America.
 Throughout Ms. Butler's career, the news media made much of the fact that she was an African-American woman writing science fiction, traditionally a white male bastion. But in interviews and in her work itself she left no doubt that her background equipped her spectacularly well to portray life in hostile dystopias where the odds of survival can be almost insurmountable.
 ''I'm black, I'm solitary, I've always been an outsider,'' The Los Angeles Times quoted Ms. Butler as saying in 1998. She leaves no immediate survivors.
 Set in time periods ranging from the historical past to the distant future, Ms. Butler's books were known for their controlled economy of language and for their strong, believable protagonists, many of them black women. She wrote a dozen novels, including ''Parable of the Sower'' (Four Walls Eight Windows, 1993); ''Parable of the Talents'' (Seven Stories Press, 1998); and, most recently, ''Fledgling'' (Seven Stories), which appeared last year.
 Ms. Butler also published a story collection, ''Bloodchild'' (Four Walls Eight Windows, 1995).
 Concerned with empathy and with the need to build community, Ms. Butler's work attracted an audience beyond its genre and was widely praised by critics. Translated into 10 languages, her books have sold more than a million copies altogether, Ms. Heifetz said.
 One of Ms. Butler's best-known novels, ''Kindred'' (Doubleday, 1979), told the story of a modern-day black woman who must travel back to the antebellum South to save the life of a white, slaveholding ancestor and, in so doing, save her own. Frequently assigned in black-studies courses, the book was rooted in the experience of the author's mother, who worked as a maid.
 ''I didn't like seeing her go through back doors,'' Ms. Butler once told Publishers Weekly. ''If my mother hadn't put up with all those humiliations, I wouldn't have eaten very well or lived very comfortably. So I wanted to write a novel that would make others feel the history: the pain and fear that black people have had to live through in order to endure.''
 Octavia Estelle Butler was born on June 22, 1947, in Pasadena, Calif. As a girl, she was known as Junie. (This may have derived from ''Junior'': her mother was also named Octavia.) Her father, a shoeshine man, died when she was very young, and her mother reared her alone.
 Always conspicuously tall for her age, Junie grew up paralytically shy, losing herself in books despite having dyslexia. Octavia Senior could not afford books, but she brought home the tattered discards of the white families for whom she worked.
 Octavia Junior began writing stories as a child and soon turned to science fiction, attracted by a genre whose limitless possibilities let her imagine absolutely anything.
 ''When I began writing science fiction, when I began reading, heck, I wasn't in any of this stuff I read,'' Ms. Butler told The New York Times in 2000. ''The only black people you found were occasional characters or characters who were so feeble-witted that they couldn't manage anything, anyway. I wrote myself in, since I'm me and I'm here and I'm writing.''
 Ms. Butler earned an associate's degree from Pasadena City College in 1968, and later studied at California State University, Los Angeles. 
 As a student, Ms. Butler became a protegee of the renowned science fiction writer Harlan Ellison. Over the next half-dozen years, living alone in a modest Los Angeles apartment, she rose each day at 2 a.m. to write. She supported herself through a series of dystopian jobs: dishwasher, telemarketer, potato chips inspector.
 Her first novel, ''Patternmaster,'' was published by Doubleday in 1976. The book centers on a rigidly stratified society ruled by telepathic people called Patternists. It became the first installment in Ms. Butler's highly regarded Patternist series, whose later titles, most from Doubleday, include ''Mind of My Mind'' (1977); ''Survivor'' (1978); ''Wild Seed'' (1980); and ''Clay's Ark'' (St. Martin's, 1984).
 Among Ms. Butler's other books are the Xenogenesis trilogy, published by Warner Books and comprising ''Dawn'' (1987), ''Adulthood Rites'' (1988) and ''Imago'' (1989). Her other awards include a lifetime achievement award from PEN Center West and the Langston Hughes Medal from the City College of New York.
 In an interview with The New York Times in 2000, Ms. Butler explained the deep appropriateness of her chosen genre as a vehicle for social commentary.
 ''We are a naturally hierarchical species,'' she said. ''When I say these things in my novels, sure I make up the aliens and all of that, but I don't make up the essential human character.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Octavia E. Butler in 2003. (Photo by Jack Haley/Daily Messenger, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WRITERS (91%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); WOMEN (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); BOOK SALES (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%); HYPERTENSION (56%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (68%); FOUR WALLS EIGHT WINDOWS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD SCIENCE FICTION SOCIETY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



9 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Near 2-Year Low; Consumer Confidence Ebbs 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes dropped to their lowest level in nearly two years in January, and the number of unsold homes on the market rose, a trade group reported yesterday.
 Also yesterday, a survey showed a surprising dip in consumer expectations, and the Commerce Department revised upward measures of economic growth and inflation in the fourth quarter.
Taken together, the figures suggested that the economy, while strong today, may be poised for a slowdown in the second half of the year, especially if the Federal Reserve continues increasing short-term interest rates to keep inflation in check, analysts said. 
 The new data, along with comments yesterday from a Google executive that the company's growth in search-related advertising revenue was inevitably slowing, seemed to concern investors. The three major stock indicators all fell about 1 percent. [Page C10.]
 ''On balance,'' said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS, ''people view the economy as pretty strong.'' But the housing and consumer figures ''are definitely negative,'' he said, adding: ''The trend in the home sales is the clearest. It's pretty unambiguous that demand for housing has been weakening in the last couple of months.''
 The National Association of Realtors reported that sales of existing homes fell 2.8 percent in January, to an annual pace of 6.56 million. It was the fifth consecutive monthly decline in sales, which are down 10 percent from their pace in September.
 Sales of condominiums and co-op apartments, which have soared in price in recent years, declined 11 percent in January.
 The number of homes available for sale at the end of January was up 35.7 percent from a year earlier, to 2.91 million. At the current pace of sales, that would be a 5.3-month supply, up from 5.1 months in December.
 On Monday, the Commerce Department reported that the sales of new homes fell 5 percent in January from a year earlier. 
 The status of the nation's long housing boom is weighing heavily on the minds of economists and consumers because the growth in home values, and the ability to tap into it with cheaper mortgages and home-equity loans, has been behind much of the consumer spending in recent years. 
 Prices, though, do not seem to be falling, although they are not rising as fast as they did most of last year. Median prices -- half the homes sold for more and half for less -- increased 11.6 percent from a year earlier, to $211,000. By comparison, prices rose 10.5 percent in December, 13.2 percent in November and 16.6 percent in October from the corresponding periods the year before.
 In another report yesterday, the Conference Board said that its consumer confidence index fell to 101.7 this month, from 106.8 in January, as Americans expressed greater concern about their future job prospects and earnings power. Lynn Franco, director of the board's consumer research center, said some of the concern seemed to be based on the increases in mortgage rates and a drop in refinancing activity.
 ''There is a growing feeling,'' she said, ''that business conditions and labor conditions are not going to be as strong in the second half of the year as in the first half.''
 Ms. Franco added that consumers considered jobs plentiful now and that their wages were increasing, but that those gains were being negated by higher gasoline, electricity and other prices.
 The Commerce Department revised upward one gauge of inflation, the fourth-quarter gross domestic product price index, to 3.3 percent, from an earlier estimate of 3 percent. Excluding food and energy, the index was also up 3.3 percent, compared with 2.8 percent in the third quarter.
 The department also revised upward its estimate of fourth-quarter economic growth to 1.6 percent, from its previous estimate of 1.1 percent. The increase resulted from revisions in data on federal spending, equipment and software and inventories. Initial government estimates of economic growth are frequently revised higher.
 Federal Reserve policy makers have indicated that they may have to raise the benchmark short-term interest rate further; it is now at 4.5 percent after a two-year campaign to increase the cost of borrowing. 
 Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research in New York, predicted that ''expectations of future growth and inflation are going to force the Fed to be more aggressive rather than sit on the sidelines.'' 
 Separately, the Chicago Purchasing Managers monthly index dropped to 54.9 this month, from 58.5. It was the third consecutive drop in the index, which measures the economic expectations of producers in the Midwest; readings above 50 indicate plans for growth.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Confidence''Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100.Graph tracks attitudes since 2004.(Source by The Conference Board)Chart: ''Real Economic Growth''Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation.4th Qtr. revisedTo: +1.6%From: +1.1Graph tracks change from 2002-2005.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%) Housing; United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Condominiums; Cooperatives; Sales; Gross Domestic Product; Housing; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%) Commerce Department; National Assn of Realtors; Conference Board

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



10 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Now and Always Showing, A Tale of Indomitable Spirit

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DEPOSIT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
LONG ago, most little towns upstate had their own movie theater, maybe not so grand as the State, with its 600 narrow seats, its elegant marquee with lettering in agate blue and Chinese red, but a theater nonetheless.
 Some are still around, chopped up into boxy little twin-screen theaters, but most of the rest are long gone, as distant as the days before television, before Wal-Mart, before the factory jobs went away. So under any circumstances, it's a bit of a wonder that the State still survives in this frayed little town about 160 miles northwest of Midtown Manhattan, near the Pennsylvania state line.
But the miracle, it turns out, goes beyond mere survival. Instead, it's a lesson in persistence, like fate's version of compound interest. 
 When the roof collapsed under the weight of a mountain of snow in 1985, people didn't quite know how to keep the theater alive, just that it had to happen. When the restored theater was destroyed by a fire in 1994, residents began rebuilding the next day, and it reopened eight months later.
 And when thieves broke in on Jan. 20, making off with the theater's sound system -- amplifiers, microphones and light board, even headsets used by the hearing impaired -- people weren't sure whether to scream or to cry, but they figured that somehow, this, too, would pass.
 ''Some of us, after the fire, looked at each other and said, 'At our age, we are not going to be able to do this a third time,' '' said Sally Moore, 78, programming director of the theater. ''When I got the phone call about the break-in I sat here and cried. and I thought: 'Those kids. I could wring their necks.' ''
 The State opened in 1937 and operated under private ownership until 1985. One winter night during a showing of ''Remo Williams: The Adventure Begins,'' people heard the roof creak and moan as if someone were trying to get out. Two hours after the film let out, the whole roof collapsed, burying the theater under an avalanche of snow. The owners threw in the towel, but residents put together a nonprofit corporation, the Deposit Community Theater and Performing Arts Center, to keep it alive. They rebuilt it with donations and grants, replacing the old seats with gold velour ones discarded by the Kennedy Center in Washington.
 Nine years later, the theater burned to the ground, a result of a fire set in a couch in the building next door by carousing teenagers, and they started all over again. They took out a $48,000 mortgage to pay what the insurance didn't cover; salvaged the old light fixtures and popcorn and ticket machines, which had come from a shuttered vintage theater in Ticonderoga; got local lumber dealers and contractors to help with work and materials; and put in 299 new seats. 
 This time, people have donated sound systems for use until insurance provides money for most of what's been lost. The rest will have to come from donations.
 THE films shown in the State are mostly family fare, like ''The Pink Panther'' and ''Nanny McPhee.'' Local theater and dance troupes use the stage, and this month is March Madness -- Good Vibrations, a female barbershop quartet; Karaoke Night with John Palladino; Catskill country music by the West Branch Ramblers.
 Still, having the theater means more than what's in it. Deposit is one of those places more easily defined by what it was than what it is. The name comes from the days when logs were deposited into the Delaware River and sent downstream to Philadelphia. The big annual event is the Lumberjack Festival.
 The population, now about 1,500, is sliding over time, and much of any growth now is from second-home buyers venturing just beyond the Catskill gentrification belt. How much the new people will become part of the town remains uncertain.
 So if there's any glue beyond the schools that holds this together, it's the theater. You get a feeling that like Deposit's dog-eared downtown, it's still holding on by a thread. There have been three fires downtown over the past few years, leading folks to contemplate another catastrophe.
 Carolyn Denys manages the theater, where her mother used to be the cashier. Her husband, Sonny, runs the projector, and despite a bad back and creaky legs, does most of the maintenance. They both do it without pay.
 Asked what might happen if disaster were to strike again, she said firmly, ''I think three times is the end of it.'' But when pressed she added: ''If there's a fourth, we'll still pick up our bootstraps and go back. We're not quitters.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); FIRES (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); AVALANCHES (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DEAFNESS (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); THEATER (58%) Motion Pictures; State (Deposit, NY); Theaters (Buildings)

PERSON: Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Deposit (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



11 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking a Stadium to Create a New Rivalry (for the Seats)

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif. 

 BODY:
The rationale behind Stanford University's $95 million project to shrink the campus football stadium is not intuitively obvious.
 But athletic department officials think it will help the university make more money.
''It looks funny, but we hope to increase our income, twice at least,'' said Ray M. Purpur, senior associate athletic director at Stanford and a major fund-raiser for the project, which was begun almost immediately after Stanford played its last home football game in November. The project is to be completed for the fall season.
 The idea, Mr. Purpur explained, is that shrinking the supply of seats -- to 50,000 from about 85,000 -- will make people buy more season tickets. That way, they can be sure they can attend the games they want, like hugely popular rivalry games against the University of California. 
 Consultants who advise sports teams say there is method to the Stanford plan. Reducing capacity can increase sales, said Marc Ganis, president of Sportscorp Ltd., a Chicago sports consulting firm. 
 ''When people feel like they wouldn't be able to get a ticket to any game they want to go to, they tend to get season tickets,'' he said, adding that it improves attendance over all.
 But at Stanford, the idea of spending more than $100 million to reduce the size of the 85-year-old stadium for the team's five or six home games drew the ire of Henry E. Riggs, a 1957 Stanford graduate and a former vice president for development at the university. The alumni magazine printed a letter from him criticizing the economics of the project and in an opinion article he wrote for The Palo Alto Weekly, he asked, ''Is there no end to the foolish extravagance lavished on big-time college football?''
 Few graduates have joined Mr. Riggs in arguing against the project, which was originally budgeted for between $25 million and $85 million. One was Loren D. Smith, class of 1955, of Mountainside, N.J. 
 ''My interest in it was why,'' Mr. Smith said. ''It's not as though it's falling apart.''
 But other graduates said that the stadium was not comfortable, and that the field, separated from the stands by a running track, was too far away from spectators. 
 ''It definitely needed to be remodeled,'' said Dr. Robert O. Dillman, class of 1969, the medical director of the Hoag Cancer Center in Newport Beach, Calif. ''I was just surprised that in doing it they were going to downsize it that much.''
 The university has mounted Web cameras for Stanford football fans to monitor the renovation project (stanfordstadium.com). Construction work has proceeded for 16 hours a day, to make sure that the new stadium is ready in the fall.
 The project has also stirred little controversy on campus, students and faculty members said, perhaps because not many seem to attend the home football games. 
 ''I haven't heard any'' discussion of the stadium, said Leah S. Sawyer, a junior on the school's track team. She said she had not heard the price tag attached to the renovation project, either. When told the amount, she said, ''I can't imagine too many students would be excited'' about spending that amount of money. 
 But several faculty members said graduates who donate to the athletic department would not have given money to rebuild any other part of the university, and so there was no downside to spending so much on the stadium.
 ''These people, their connection to the university is much more through athletics than through the academic'' side, said Roger G. Noll, an economics professor at the university, referring to the graduates whose donations were financing the stadium project. He said he had heard few complaints from colleagues about the project, while he had heard concerns about the school's business endeavors, including real estate and intellectual property holdings.
 At least one other school, Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H., is weighing a similar plan to reduce the size of its stadium. But for both Dartmouth and Stanford, the example of Princeton, which reduced the size of its stadium to 27,800 from 45,000 in the 1990's, may offer a cautionary tale.
 In the first seasons after the construction project in New Jersey, and after the price of a ticket was cut to $5, attendance soared, rising to more than 20,000 people a game from fewer than 10,000 a game in the old stadium, said Jerry Price, associate athletic director at the school.
 By last season, attendance had fallen nearly to its old levels, he said.
 ''We had bad weather for a couple of games,'' he said.
 A few Stanford graduates said low attendance at football games -- about 36,000 people attended each game last season, on average -- will not be cured by a renovation. Last year the team won five games and lost six, and that is the problem, they say. 
 As Mr. Smith put it, ''It's what's on the field that makes a difference.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray M. Purpur, senior associate athletic director at Stanford, discussing the renovation in January. Seating will fall to 50,000 from about 85,000. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); CANCER (50%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Finances

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) Stanford University

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



12 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Mamakating Journal; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Delicate Mushroom Incites Hudson Valley Tug of War

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: MAMAKATING, N.Y. 

 BODY:
On the face of it, mushrooms would seem to be just the kind of gentle industry that this scenic corner of Sullivan County would like to entice. After all, programs abound in the Hudson Valley to keep what little agriculture remains.
 But the mushroom operation envisioned for a parcel of land about 70 miles north of New York City is not a drowsy roadside farm, but what critics have called a high-tech agribusiness fortress. 
A Japanese company, Yukiguni Maitake Manufacturing Corporation of America, wants to build a windowless building with a five-acre footprint that would produce 30 tons of maitake mushrooms daily. No one disputes that the plant would draw in hundreds of thousands of gallons of water a day from the aquifer beneath it to aid in the indoor growing process.
 ''The name of the company is manufacturing, and that's what they're doing: they're manufacturing mushrooms,'' said Eileen Haworth Weil, a retired professor of English and an opponent of the plant. ''It will change the ambience of the town.''
 The parent company, Yukiguni Maitake, already has five such plants in Japan that together yield 120 tons of mushrooms a day. Eager to realize its first overseas venture, the company has tried to foster a market for maitakes in the United States by selling them to top chefs in New York.
 The company says that its plant here will be absolutely clean, with no pesticides or manure used to cultivate the maitakes, which are large and leafy and prized for their nutty flavor. Indeed, they are actually grown in a mixture of sawdust, corn and oat bran. 
 Maitakes have long been popular in Japan and may possess cancer-fighting properties. Investigators at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center are trying to determine whether maitake extract can stimulate the immune system in a trial involving breast cancer patients. 
 When up and running, the $90 million operation, on 48 acres, would create 210 permanent jobs and generate more than $1 million a year in tax revenue for the town, county and local schools, according to Kazunori Kameyama, president and chief executive of Yukiguni Maitake Manufacturing. 
 ''We are trying to come from Japan to the United States to spend money to make a healthful product, and we are not going to destroy the existing nature,'' Mr. Kameyama, a former banker, said in an interview in his Middletown, N.Y., office. 
 The town of Mamakating's zoning and planning boards signed off on the company's plans after an environmental review. The town's final approval is pending. But many there are not convinced, and an opposition movement is clouding the company's prospects as it awaits final site plan approval and a special-use permit.
 Opponents say the building, which would rise to 80 feet at its highest point, would mar the area, which includes part of the Shawangunk Ridge -- beloved by hikers and nature photographers, among others -- and the Delaware & Hudson Canal Linear Park. Some worry that the plant will tax the aquifer during periods of drought. 
 They also criticize the town for not subjecting the company to a more rigorous environmental review. Mr. Kameyama, who had to address more than 20 environmental issues, scoffed at that idea. 
 Scores of signs proclaiming ''No Mushroom Plant'' have sprouted along roads and on the sides of barns. The Basha Kill Area Association, a local nonprofit group that protects the largest freshwater wetlands in southeastern New York, has filed a lawsuit against the town's planning board. 
 Another lawsuit was filed against the town's zoning board of appeals by a couple whose property abuts the Yukiguni land. 
 Opponents even fielded a slate of candidates in last fall's local elections. The slate lost, but one candidate came within several votes of unseating the town supervisor.
 Mr. Kameyama said the dissent has spawned its share of xenophobia. He was particularly chagrined when a local newspaper put the story on its front page with the headline ''Mushroom Clouds'' -- which he said he read as a not-so-subtle reference to the American atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
 ''At the public meetings, I was told by some of the people to 'get out of my ancestor's land,' '' Mr. Kameyama said. ''We paid money for the property. Why should I be called an invader?'' 
 Others, including town and county officials, support the plan, saying the town needs the jobs and the tax revenue. 
 Marc A. Baez, president and chief executive of the Sullivan County Partnership, a nonprofit economic development agency, called the opposition a ''boisterous minority'' that was ''working to keep the community as it is.'' Charles E. Penna, the town supervisor, accused critics of waging a ''misinformation campaign,'' spreading fear about the potential for odors and a plume of mist, which he called ''nonissues.''
 Mr. Kameyama acknowledged that there would be a sawdust smell on the grounds of the plant, but said that it would not drift beyond the property. As for the mist that critics say could add humidity to an already foggy valley, he compared the puffs of steam that would rise from the rooftop to those of any commercial cooling system. 
 Mr. Penna is concerned about the plant's design, however, saying that he favors a rustic, Adirondack-style facade. ''It has to blend in,'' he said.
 But Mr. Kameyama said the design reflects the fact that mushrooms need a perfectly controlled environment. ''You see windowless concrete buildings everywhere,'' he said, referring to big-box stores.
 Like many fights over new development, this one has exposed class and economic tensions in the town. ''We have an elitist group in this community,'' Mr. Penna said. ''They hide behind being environmentalists. I wish they would come down to earth and realize that the commoners need jobs.''
 But critics say the jobs will be mostly low paying and insist that the fight is not about income, but about the future of this town of 11,000 residents. 
 ''This is an extraordinarily beautiful area, and we are blessed with extraordinary resources,'' said Anita Altman, who has a weekend house here. ''These guys are coming in to exploit it, and they will provide very little in return.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jobs, taxes, environment and, some say, nationality characterize debate over a Japanese firm's business plan.
 Eileen Haworth Weil, left, and Tish Moore oppose a mushroom plant proposed for Sullivan County, N.Y. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (89%); ZONING (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUSHROOM PRODUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); PESTICIDES (77%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (74%); CANCER (68%); BREAST CANCER (65%); APPROVALS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Mushrooms; Factories and Industrial Plants; Pesticides; Manure; Mushrooms

COMPANY: YUKIGUNI MAITAKE CORP OF AMERICA (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Yukiguni Maitake (Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS111419 OTHER FOOD CROPS GROWN UNDER COVER (84%); NAICS111411 MUSHROOM PRODUCTION (84%); SIC0182 FOOD CROPS GROWN UNDER COVER (84%)

PERSON: Lisa Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) Mamakating (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



13 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Ole! Shopping Malls Sprint to Mexico 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: IXTAPALUCA, Mexico 

 BODY:
The gleaming new Wal-Mart Supercenter in this far-flung suburb of Mexico City may be the only Wal-Mart anywhere built on the former site of a bullring. 
 But in every other way it is emblematic of a wave of development rolling across Mexico. Over the last two years, developers and retailers have spent at least $1.5 billion to build shopping centers, and the pace is picking up.
In the $43 million shopping center here, only Wal-Mart and a large clothing store, Suburbia, which is also owned by Wal-Mart's Mexican subsidiary, are open for business. But by June, when the rest of the complex is to open, it will offer a multiplex cinema, a children's play area, an outdoor food court, a chapel, some 100 small stores and an outdoor amphitheater for live entertainment.
 ''It is designed to be a town center,'' said Michael Foley, chief development officer for the shopping center's developer, Mexico Retail Properties. 
 Mexico Retail Properties is a partnership of the Black Creek Group, a Denver-based private real estate company, and Equity International Properties, the international investment arm of Sam Zell's Equity Group Investments. It is one of several high-powered American companies investing in Mexican shopping centers and malls, attracted by Mexico's young population, its healthy economy and the creation of vast new suburbs.
 In almost all cases, American investors have joined forces with Mexican partners for their experience in navigating the personal relationships and the thicket of regulations that are part of the Mexican real estate business.
 Mexican Retail Properties is the exception, going it alone with a local staff headed by Mr. Foley, who developed shopping centers in the United States for 17 years before coming to Mexico three years ago. The partners of Mexico Retail raised $250 million and leveraged that into $500 million, which they will invest over the next couple of years, building 5 to 10 shopping centers a year. Last year, the group built nine shopping centers.
 The simplest explanation for this boom is Mexico's economic stability. The peso is strong, interest rates have been falling, and family income is rising while inflation has dropped to its lowest level in decades. 
 But there are other causes too, beginning with a huge demand for retail space. ''There is a tremendous untapped marketplace here in Mexico,'' Mr. Foley said. 
 While there are some 20.12 square feet of retail space per person in shopping centers in the United States as of last year, that number is just 1.13 square feet in Mexico, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers in New York. ''I think we're in a boom in the development cycle,'' said Elliott Bross, who heads Planigrupo, one of the country's largest retail developers. ''It's probably going to last three to five more years.''
 The population pyramid also makes Mexico attractive. Seventy percent of Mexicans are under 35, which means that some two million new adult consumers come on line every year. 
 Under President Vicente Fox, there has been an explosion of low-income housing under government-backed mortgage programs. 
 In Ixtapaluca, for example, some 75,000 houses have been built over the last few years, said Mr. Foley, helping to push the population in the area to more than a million. 
 ''The key here in Mexico is population density,'' he said. While in the United States, a developer might consider a range of statistics like car ownership, income levels and daytime population, ''in Mexico you throw all that out the window.'' Even income levels are not a crucial factor. In Ixtapaluca, reported household income is just $4,300 a year, but that leaves out the income many people make off the books. 
 Low interest rates have fueled a credit expansion over the last three years, creating record car sales and allowing retailers to offer millions of credit cards. 
 At the same time, Mexican and American retailers are expanding aggressively. ''The growth is due to the war among the supermarket chains which need to position themselves in the best places,'' said Xavier Pumarejo Gonzalez, managing director for Mexico of the International Council of Shopping Centers. ''They are looking at small and medium-sized cities.''
 Wal-Mart Stores, which bought the country's largest retailer in 1997, has led the growth, forcing Mexican competitors to struggle to keep up. It now has 486 grocery, general merchandise and clothing stores. Last year Wal-Mart built 75 retail stores in different formats. 
 HEB, a grocery store operator based in San Antonio, has opened 22 stores in northeastern Mexico since 1997. It expects to open four or five more stores a year over the next five years, said Norma Trevino, a spokeswoman for HEB Mexico.
 Costco, based in Issaquah, Wash., has built 28 stores since it entered the Mexican market in 1991 in a joint venture with the Mexican retailer Controladora Comercial Mexicana, and it plans to expand to 70 stores a decade from now, said Jaime Gonzalez, senior vice president of Costco Mexico. 
 ''Look at how cities have grown from 10 or 15 years ago,'' he said. ''Take the example of Cabo San Lucas. We have one of our best units there. The population is less than 300,000, but it's doing great.''
 Shopping centers built around a hypermarket are the most visible part of the boom. But investment is also spreading to fashion malls, which have a department store anchor and other clothing retailers, as developers push into neighborhoods that have long been ignored. 
 Last November, a joint venture operated by O'Connor Capital Partners, a New York private equity firm led by the New York real estate investor Jeremiah W. O'Connor Jr., and Consorcio Ara, a Mexican homebuilder, opened a fashion mall and shopping center in Ecatepec, a municipality of two million people just outside Mexico City.
 ''What we're trying to do is cater to a population that has been neglected for many, many years,'' said Ricardo Zuniga, who runs the firm's Mexico operation. ''The conventional wisdom is that these people can't buy.''
 But the research suggested they could. In dollar terms, incomes rose about 50 percent from 2002 to last year, and the number of credit cards in Mexico has jumped to 17 million from 8 million since 2002, he said.
 So the partnership went with something new: a shopping center around a Wal-Mart with a fashion mall just across the street anchored by Liverpool, a midrange Mexican department store. ''The hunch that we had paid off,'' he said. 
 The joint venture began with $100 million in equity, allowing the partners to raise another $200 million, enough to buy one shopping center and build five more. 
 Now O'Connor Capital Partners plans to put another $130 million into shopping malls, money it has raised from American institutional investors like pension funds, insurance companies and endowments. 
 Not long ago, the idea of investing in Mexican retail real estate seemed far-fetched. After the peso collapse in December 1994, interest rates soared and the economy went into a tailspin. When HEB tapped the Mexican developer Planigrupo to handle its entry into Mexico in 1997, Mr. Bross searched in vain for financing in the United States. 
 ''I went knocking on doors looking for money,'' he recalls. ''They said Mexico is too risky.''
 In the end, HEB had to provide its own financing. 
 By 2001, attitudes had changed significantly. Mr. Bross signed a deal with the Kimco Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust based in New Hyde Park, N.Y., that owns and operates shopping centers in North America. GE Real Estate, which had snubbed him five years earlier, joined the deal six months later as interest rates fell.
 ''It was the first time that any U.S. investment fund had come and invested in pesos,'' he said of Kimco. ''It was a watershed.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wal-Mart and a Suburbia clothing store are open at this complex outside Mexico City. A multiplex cinema, food court and some 100 small stores are expected to open by summer. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (97%); RETAIL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); SUBURBS (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); TRENDS (76%); FAMILY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CURRENCIES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Children and Youth; Retail Stores and Trade; Suburbs; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); EQUITY GROUP INVESTMENTS LLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Mexican Retail Properties (Co)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (70%) Michael Foley; Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (90%) COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



14 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Cut for HUD Is Criticized by Bloomberg

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg criticized the Bush administration's proposed cuts to federal housing assistance in a speech on Tuesday that catalogued his housing plans for New York City and touched on national themes like the rebuilding of New Orleans.
 The mayor, a Republican who has maintained a distant if cordial relationship with national Republicans, urged members of Congress ''to reject the proposed shortsighted cuts'' to the budget of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
Without mentioning President Bush by name, Mr. Bloomberg also urged increased financing for the Community Development Block Grant program, which the Bush administration cut significantly last year. ''It's simply too important and too valuable to be allowed to die on the vine,'' he said.
 Mayor Bloomberg has often shied away from such direct criticism of the Bush administration, singling out Congress instead for what he considers Washington's failure to deliver enough aid to New York City. 
 Aides to Mr. Bloomberg described the speech, before 300 members of the National Low Income Housing Coalition here to lobby Congress for housing aid, as the most extensive of five speeches on housing he had made since December 2002, when he unveiled a $3 billion plan to preserve or build 65,000 housing units. 
 Yet the mayor, who has spurned any suggestion that he run for national office, also used the theme of housing to visit broader topics: racial segregation and social justice.
 ''For decades, urban history in the United States has followed a disheartening narrative line of suburban affluence and center-city despair -- a story with a strong and bitter subtext of racial segregation,'' Mr. Bloomberg said to loud murmurs of approval from his audience. ''But in today's economy, that division makes losers of cities and suburbs alike.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg offered advice on subjects beyond his formal powers: New Orleans and federal housing aid. He called the revival of New Orleans ''of paramount importance to all of us who care about the future of urban America'' but said that the city had been ill served by misguided leadership. 
 ''No city suffered more than New Orleans did from failed housing policies in the past,'' the mayor said, adding that creative zoning policies and an infusion of private investment could start to ''move tens of thousands of the long-suffering citizens of New Orleans out of the backwaters of poverty.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg called the federal role in housing ''without a doubt, a matter of social justice,'' but urged his listeners to expand their arguments in a practical direction. 
 Advocates have a greater chance of winning support, he said, if they portray mixed-income housing as a prudent investment of government and private resources.
 The bulk of Mr. Bloomberg's speech was dedicated to the expanded housing goals he articulated last week at a news conference in Harlem: the construction or rehabilitation of 165,000 housing units by 2013, a plan he called ''the most ambitious affordable housing campaign ever undertaken by any city in America.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg noted that the city last August finished selling 100,000 tax-delinquent and mostly decrepit properties that had been acquired through foreclosures in the 1970's and 80's. He said that the city's efforts had turned to lending money to smaller developers to build low-cost homes, using city-owned land for new housing and rezoning waterfront and manufacturing areas to accommodate new homes and businesses. 
 The speech was part of a daylong visit to discuss New York City affairs with federal officials. Before the speech, Mr. Bloomberg met Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, to discuss restrictions on the city's use of security money, the sharing of intelligence on terrorist threats and the backlog of immigrants seeking to be naturalized.
 Asked whether he was trying to expand his national visibility with more speaking engagements, Mr. Bloomberg jokingly replied, ''Maybe I haven't been invited before.'' 
 ''I will continue to reach out, but on subjects that are the purview of city government,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''That's where really -- we should really be focused. There's enough people talking about other things.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ZONING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); RACE & RACISM (64%); SUBURBS (64%) Housing; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Community Development Block Grant; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LOW INCOME HOUSING COALITION (55%) Housing and Urban Development Department

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006



15 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Spending and Incomes Increased in January

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
Personal spending surged 0.9 percent in January, the biggest advance in six months, helped by unusually warm weather that brought more consumers to stores, the Commerce Department said yesterday. 
 Personal incomes rose a solid 0.7 percent in January, the government also reported. That reflected wage growth during the month and a number of special factors, including a 4.1 percent cost of living increase for Social Security recipients and the start of the government's new prescription drug benefit. Without the special factors, personal income would have risen a smaller 0.4 percent.
But a third report showed that construction spending managed only a 0.2 percent increase in January, the weakest gain in seven months and far below the 1 percent that analysts had been expecting. A big reason for the slowdown was a tiny increase, 0.1 percent, in private home building. It was a further indication that residential construction, which has had five boom years, is beginning to slow.
 Sales of both new and existing homes fell in January despite the warm weather, and economists predict that continued increases in mortgage rates will slow housing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); COST OF LIVING (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



16 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: Stretched to Limit, Women Stall March to Work

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
For four decades, the number of women entering the workplace grew at a blistering pace, fostering a powerful cultural and economic transformation of American society. But since the mid-1990's, the growth in the percentage of adult women working outside the home has stalled, even slipping somewhat in the last five years and leaving it at a rate well below that of men.
 While the change has been under way for a while, it was initially viewed by many experts as simply a pause in the longer-term movement of women into the work force. But now, social scientists are engaged in a heated debate over whether the gender revolution at work may be over.
Is this shift evidence for the popular notion that many mothers are again deciding that they prefer to stay at home and take care of their children? 
 Maybe, but many researchers are coming to a different conclusion: women are not choosing to stay out of the labor force because of a change in attitudes, they say. Rather, the broad reconfiguration of women's lives that allowed most of them to pursue jobs outside the home appears to be hitting some serious limits.
 Since the 1960's, tens of millions of women rejiggered bits of their lives, extracting more time to accommodate jobs and careers from every nook and cranny of the day. They married later and had fewer children. They turned to labor-saving machines and paid others to help handle household work; they persuaded the men in their lives to do more chores.
 At the peak in 2000, some 77 percent of women in the prime ages of 25 to 54 were in the work force.
 Further changes, though, have been proving harder to achieve, stretching the daily challenge facing many mothers at nearly all income levels toward a breaking point.
 ''What happened on the road to gender equality?'' said Suzanne M. Bianchi, a sociologist at the University of Maryland. ''A lot of work happened.''
 Consider Cathie Watson-Short, 37, a former business development executive at high-technology companies in Silicon Valley. She pines to go back to work, but has not figured out how to mesh work with caring for her three daughters.
 ''Most of us thought we would work and have kids, at least that was what we were brought up thinking we would do -- no problem,'' Ms. Watson-Short said. ''But really we were kind of duped. None of us realized how hard it is.''
 Professor Bianchi, who studies time-use surveys done by the Census Bureau and others, has concluded that contrary to popular belief, the broad movement of women into the paid labor force did not come at the expense of their children. Not only did fathers spend more time with children, but working mothers, she found, spent an average of 12 hours a week on child care in 2003, an hour more than stay-at-home mothers did in 1975. 
 Instead, mothers with children at home gained the time for outside work by taking it from other parts of their day. They also worked more over all. Professor Bianchi found that employed mothers, on average, worked at home and on the job a total of 15 hours more a week and slept 3.6 fewer hours than those who were not employed.
 ''Perhaps time has been compressed as far as it will go,'' she suggested. ''Kids take time, and work takes time. The conflicts didn't go away.''
 Indeed, the research suggests that women may have already hit a wall in the amount of work that they can pack into a week. From 1965 to 1995, Professor Bianchi found, the average time mothers spent doing paid work jumped to almost 26 hours a week from 9 hours. The time spent on housework fell commensurately, to 19 hours from 32.
 Then the trend stalled. From 1995 to 2003, mothers, on average, spent about the same amount of time on household chores, but their work outside the home fell by almost four hours a week.
 ''Looking toward the future,'' said Francine D. Blau, a professor of economics at Cornell University, ''one can question how much further increases in women's participation can be had without more reallocation of household work.''
 This is having broad repercussions for the economy. Today, about 75 percent of women 25 to 54 years old are either working or actively seeking a job, up from around 40 percent in the late 1950's. That expansion helped fuel economic growth for decades.
 But the previous trend flattened in the early 1990's. And since 2000, the participation rate for women has declined somewhat; it remains far below the 90 percent rate for men in the same age range.
 There is one big exception to the trend: while the rate of labor participation leveled off for most groups of women, the percentage of single mothers in the work force jumped to more than 75 percent from 63 percent. That of high school dropouts rose to 53 percent from 48 percent. 
 Economists say that these women were pushed into work with the help of changes in government policy: the expansion of the earned-income tax credit and the overhaul of welfare in the mid-1990's, which replaced long-term entitlements with temporary aid.
 To be sure, mothers' overcrowded lives have not been the only factor limiting their roles in the work force. The decline in participation rates for most groups of women since the recession of 2001 at least partly reflects an overall slowdown in hiring, which affected men and women roughly equally.
 ''The main reason for women's declining labor-force participation rates over the last four years was the weakness of the labor market,'' said Heather Boushey, an economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal research institute in Washington. ''Women did not opt out of the labor force because of the kids.''
 But even if the recent decline was driven more by economic factors, other experts note that the leveling off began well before the economic slump a few year ago. And whatever the mixture of causes, the changing pace of women's participation in the work force has recently risen to the top of the agenda among scholars and policy makers.
 A report by the White House Council of Economic Advisers, presented to Congress in February, contended that the slowdown in the rate of women moving into the workplace, was weighing on the nation's potential for economic growth.
 ''The new factor at play,'' the report said, ''is the change in the trend in the female participation rate, which has edged down on balance since 2000 after having risen for five decades.''
 Claudia Goldin, an economics professor at Harvard University, said in a keynote speech to the annual meeting of the American Economic Association in Boston in January that the trend across nearly all groups of women had ''led many to wonder if a 'natural rate' of labor force participation has been reached.''
 A broad set of social and economic forces pushed women into the work force. From the 1960's onward, women flooded into higher education and began to marry later.
 Professor Goldin said that a typical female college graduate born in the mid-1960's married at 26, three years later than the typical female college graduate born in the early 1950's. 
 This alone had large-scale implications for women's ability to work. Many families delayed the arrival of their first child. Today, only about 43 percent of women 25 to 29 have children under 6, compared with about 71 percent of women in that group in the 1960's. 
 Chinhui Juhn, an economics professor at the University of Houston, pointed out that women in their mid-to-late 20's accounted for most of the increase in work force participation from 1970 onward. But now, she said, ''the increase in participation of women in their prime child-bearing years is largely over.''
 Women's participation in the labor force is being restrained by a side effect of delayed motherhood: a jump in 30-something mothers with toddlers.
 ''The childbirth effects are coming later,'' said Janice Madden, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania.
 By 2004, about 37 percent of women ages 33 to 37 had children under 6, compared with 28 percent in 1979. 
 At midcareer, these women had to deal with more child care chores. ''There have been a lot more household responsibilities in this group,'' Professor Goldin, the Harvard economist, said. ''The fact that their participation rate has not declined much is what is surprising -- not that there is a plateau.'' 
 Most women, even those with young children, need to work. Many more want to. Ms. Watson-Short, the former California executive who is now a mother of three, said that her stay-at-home-mom friends, like her, felt blindsided by the demands of motherhood.
 ''They had a totally different idea of where they would be,'' Ms. Watson-Short said. ''They thought they would be in the workplace and have someone help them raise the kids.''
 But those who kept working are also torn. Catherine Stallings, 34, returned to her job in the communications department of New York University's medical center last month because she could not afford not to. Dealing with work and her 5-month-old daughter, Riley, has been stressful for her and her husband, the marketing director of a sports magazine.
 ''Usually, we are so tired we pass out around 10 or so,'' Ms. Stallings said. ''And my job is not a career-track job. If I were climbing the ladder, it would be a no-win situation.''
 Some economists argue that it is premature to conclude that the gender revolution in the workplace has reached its limit. 
 Yet for the participation rates of women to rise significantly, they agree, mothers may have to give up more of the household burden.
 Professor Blau of Cornell noted that in Scandinavian countries, where laws provide for more generous parental leave and subsidize day care, women have higher rates of labor participation than in the United States.
 Ms. Watson-Short, whose husband is a patent lawyer, expects to go back to some sort of paid work but sees a full-time job as well off in the future. Making the transition back into the work force, even through part-time jobs, will not be as easy as she and her contemporaries once hoped.
 ''We got equality at work,'' Ms. Watson-Short said. ''We really didn't get equality at home.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Putting aside a career as a technology executive, Cathie Watson-Short cares for her three daughters at home in Saratoga, Calif. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Holding one daughter, Cathie Watson-Short tried to wake another one. None of her friends ''realized how hard'' the work-life balance would be. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C2)Chart: ''An Upper Bound''With women facing limits on the amount of work they can fit into a week, the percentage of women working at jobs outside the home has stalled.Graph shows labor force participation rate, women ages 24 to 54Graph shows time spent by mothers doing:PAID WORKHOUSEWORKCHILD CARE(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Prof. Suzanne Bianchi, University of Maryland)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); CENSUS (50%) Labor; Women; Labor

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



17 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM DUBAI; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Emirate Wakes Up Famous. Thank You, America.

BYLINE: By Hassan M. Fattah; Mohammed Fadel Fahmy contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, March 1 

 BODY:
As United States senators turned Dubai into a household word last week, life in this desert city hardly changed: skiers swooshed down a man-made snow park in the region's largest shopping mall, workers put the finishing touches on man-made islands under construction and men like Rashad Bukhash continued planning for the day when this city of one million would grow to three million.
 But hardly anyone spoke about the issue that has so consumed Washington: the management of terminals at six major American ports by DP World, a government-owned company here.
Indeed, the most surprising aspect of the ports controversy here was, in fact, the lack of reaction: no scathing editorials, no demonstrations and certainly no talk of a Jewish conspiracy. Surprised, in part, but also enthralled, many here saw the ports firestorm as a stark example of how this economically ambitious state has surpassed its Arab neighbors. 
 ''People in Dubai are merchants,'' said Mr. Bukhash, who heads Dubai's planning department. ''We know that when you pursue a deal, you can make a profit or you can lose. If you lose, you just move on. But at least now, when I say I am from Dubai, I know that people know where it is.''
 Nevertheless, beyond Dubai's zany construction projects, frenetic growth plans and near obsession with superlatives, the ports uproar underscores for city officials and others the hurdles this city will face in its quest for modernity. Even as Dubai has struggled to shield itself from the Arab world's problems, the outcry has proved that the city will long be burdened by them. 
 ''It was an exercise you have to live with, win and then learn from,'' said Ghassan Tahboub, media manager at the executive office of Dubai's ruler, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the self-styled C.E.O. of the city. ''This was America. There are lobbies, politics and interest groups, and Dubai found itself in the middle of a jungle. In the end I have to thank everybody there for this lesson.'' 
 Many here readily admit that as Dubai emerges as a power on the global economic stage, it has much to learn about the ''soft'' aspects of business, from politics to public relations.
 ''We don't have qualified people to speak,'' said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a professor of political science at Emirates University, speaking of the government. ''They don't have experts and commentators. There's no political discourse in this city, and it showed.''
 A prominent publicist who has been advising the government said the city needed to distinguish itself from other Arab cities and countries. ''Dubai still has a big role in explaining who we are to the world,'' said the publicist, who requested anonymity because of the delicacy of implicitly criticizing other Arab countries. ''Everybody knows who Dubai is in the region. But in America, Dubai is Arab, period.'' 
 With native Emirati citizens accounting for only about 15 percent of the population, Arab may be the last word that comes to mind in describing this city. Indeed, the average resident here is more likely to speak English than Arabic, and more likely to be Asian than Arab. Many Indians jokingly refer to Dubai as ''the best-run Indian city.'' 
 Set across the Persian Gulf from Iran and just east of Saudi Arabia, Dubai is the financial capital of the United Arab Emirates, a federation of seven sheikdoms that won independence from Britain in 1971. But in stark contrast to many of its neighbors, Dubai more than two decades ago turned its back on oil and focused on diversifying its economy.
 Today, the city derives less than 15 percent of its revenue from oil, but greets more than five million tourists a year, many of them from Europe, and is the Middle East headquarters for more than 800 American companies. Like Singapore, long a model for the city, Dubai has also become a regional trade hub and a magnet for Arab, Iranian and Asian investors. 
 ''Dubai has been trying to prove to the rest of the Arab world that there is life after oil, and that in fact it's a better life,'' Mr. Abdulla said. ''The good news is there is room for a second and a third Dubai, just like there was room for a second Singapore in Asia.'' The city is lucky in that its long-term strategy has come to fruition at a moment when other Arab states are flush with billions of oil dollars and seeking places to invest their newfound wealth. 
 ''This is an Arab city living in a unique moment in history,'' said Mr. Abdulla, who likens Dubai's stature in the Arab world today to that of Beirut in the 1960's and Cairo in the 1950's -- capitals that defined the political direction for much of the region. But whereas those cities focused on the Arab world, Dubai has looked outward and embraces globalization. 
 Other Arab states, particularly Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, would like to emulate Dubai, but it is not clear they will succeed. Those states may not have Dubai's penchant for finding opportunity in misfortune, nor its openness to outsiders and dedication to unfettered business dealings. 
 In the 1980's it built strong relations with Iran by serving as a waypoint to the rest of the world and offering a lifeline during the Iran-Iraq war. In 1991, it became a haven for Kuwaitis who escaped Saddam Hussein's invading armies, then in 2003 it became a haven for Iraqis escaping the second gulf war. And in the years since, Dubai has gradually fashioned itself into a refuge for Iranians, Arabs and others who have eschewed the call to America or the West in exchange for a lifestyle that comes close, but is in keeping with Middle Eastern values. 
 Modernity, however, has not come easy. With 85 percent of the population made up of foreigners, many of them second and third generation, the city faces a simmering demographic and identity crisis.
 Dubai is likely to confront numerous other questions as a 45-day investigation of its port management program gets under way, possibly illuminating the emirate's struggles with money laundering and other illicit activities. A spotty human rights record regarding foreign workers could also be a sticking point, along with its participation in a continuing Arab boycott of trade with Israel. 
 In the end, Dubai may be pummeled in the ports controversy, but it will also have gained a lot, some officials say. 
 ''In the end, I think Dubai won,'' said Mr. Tahboub, the sheik's media manager. ''We got a lot of publicity, and we deserve it, perhaps not in this manner, but we deserve the publicity.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dubai was surprised by the ports hubbub, but also enthralled at the evidence that it had outdone its Arab neighbors. (Photo by Stephanie Kuykendal for The New York Times)Map of the U.A.E. highlighting Dubai: Dubai offers Iranians and Arabs an almost Western lifestyle, with Middle East values.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (58%)

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



18 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Much-Promoted NASA Missions Would Be Threatened Under Agency's Budget 

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
Some of the most highly promoted missions on NASA's scientific agenda would be postponed indefinitely or perhaps even canceled under the agency's new budget, despite its administrator's vow to Congress six months ago that not ''one thin dime'' would be taken from space science to pay for President Bush's plan to send astronauts to the Moon and Mars.
 The cuts come to $3 billion over the next five years, even as NASA's overall spending grows by 3.2 percent this year, to $16.8 billion.
Among the casualties in the budget, released last month, are efforts to look for habitable planets and perhaps life elsewhere in the galaxy, an investigation of the dark energy that seems to be ripping the universe apart, bringing a sample of Mars back to Earth and exploring for life under the ice of Jupiter's moon Europa -- as well as numerous smaller programs and individual research projects that astronomers say are the wellsprings of new science and new scientists. 
 The agency's administrator, Michael D. Griffin, says NASA needs the money to keep the space shuttle fleet aloft, complete the International Space Station and build a new crew exploration vehicle to replace the shuttle.
 That transition has produced an unexpected shortfall of money, but, Mr. Griffin told the House Science Committee last month, to postpone it would be more damaging than to put off some space science projects.
 ''We're delaying some missions,'' he told the committee, ''but we're not abandoning them.''
 Yesterday, Mary Cleave, NASA's associate administrator for science, said she took Dr. Griffin at his word that the cuts were a one-time event. ''There was no money available anyplace else,'' Dr. Cleave said. ''We took a hit.'' 
 The programs could still be saved if Congress voted to increase the NASA budget. The agency has powerful allies in both parties, and some have expressed alarm at the proposed cuts, which will be discussed today at a hearing of the House Science Committee.
 But at a time when fiscal conservatives are placing intense pressure on the Republican Congressional leadership to rein in government spending, programs that were previously considered sacrosanct are now vulnerable. 
 The cuts have alarmed and outraged many scientists, who have long feared that NASA will have to cannibalize its science program to carry out the president's vision of human spaceflight. 
 The new cuts, they say, will drive young people from the field, ending American domination of space science and perhaps ceding future discoveries to Europe.
 ''The bottom line: science at NASA is disappearing -- fast,'' said Donald Lamb, an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago and chairman of a committee on space science for the Association of American Universities.
 Representative Sherwood Boehlert, the New York Republican who is chairman of the Science Committee, called the new budget ''bad for space science, worse for earth science,'' adding, ''It basically cuts or de-emphasizes every forward-looking, truly futuristic program of the agency to fund operational and development programs to enable us to do what we are already doing or have done before.''
 As a result of the new cuts, NASA's expenditures for space and earth science will grow about 1 percent a year from now to 2011, far less than inflation, even as the Bush administration promotes its effort to bolster American competitiveness by doubling the research budgets at the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy and the National Institute of Standards and Technology over the next 10 years. 
 Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, and 56 other senators have introduced a bill that would mandate a 10 percent increase per year in NASA's science budget from now through 2013, among other things. 
 Astronomers and planetary researchers say space science has provided NASA's brightest and most inspirational moments in recent years: the landing on Saturn's moon Titan, the exploits of the Mars rovers and the stream of cosmic postcards from the Hubble Space Telescope.
 Despite Dr. Griffin's assurances, they say that delaying space missions can be a death sentence if there is not money to continue developing technology and to keep teams together until the mission is ready to fly again.
 That is the case, said Charles Beichman of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, with the Terrestrial Planet Finder missions, which are intended to produce images of Earth-like planets around other stars. They are the culmination of a line of missions devoted to hunting for planets around other stars and investigating if they are habitable or already harbor life, a goal, planetary scientists point out, that is explicitly endorsed in Mr. Bush's space vision. 
 ''We're getting ready to fire all the people we've built up,'' said Dr. Beichman, who is the project scientist for the second of the two spacecraft missions, once scheduled for about 2020. Once those scientists have found other jobs, he said, they are not likely to come back.
 ''What I feel bad about is turning away a generation,'' Dr. Beichman said, explaining that planet-finding has been one of the hottest fields in science lately, attracting, in particular, young scientists into astronomy.
 ''We were the new kid on the block,'' he said.
 Much of the concern among scientists is for the fate of smaller projects like the low-budget spacecraft called Explorers. Designed to provide relatively cheap and fast access to space, they are usually developed and managed by university groups. Dr. Lamb referred to them as ''the crown jewels in NASA's science program.'' 
 In recent years, one such mission, the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe, produced exquisite baby pictures of the Big Bang, while another, the Swift satellite, has helped solve a 30-year-old mystery, linking distant explosions called gamma-ray bursts to the formation of black holes.
 Explorers, Dr. Lamb said, are where graduate students and young professors get their first taste of space science. Until recently, about one mission was launched a year, but under the new plan, there will be none from 2009 to 2012. In a letter to Dr. Cleave last fall, 16 present and former Explorer scientists said, ''Such a lengthy suspension would be a devastating blow to the program and the science community.'' 
 One author of the letter, Fiona Harrison, a physicist at the California Institute of Technology, said she first learned from a news conference that her own Explorer project, an X-ray satellite observatory called NuStar, was being cancelled after several years of development. Dr. Harrison said that she had been invited to reapply in 2008, but that in the meantime she had to tell her graduate student to find another thesis project.
 Dr. Harrison said she was thinking of leaving the country or perhaps even the field of astrophysics.
 In another move last month, NASA reduced this year's budget for individual research projects by 15 percent, retroactive to last fall, taking money from researchers and their institutions that had already begun work.
 Dr. Cleave, the NASA associate administrator for science, acknowledged that she had been deluged with faxes and e-mail messages from scientists alarmed about these developments. She said the agency would be willing to adjust ''the mix'' in favor of more research and analysis, but added that something would have to give.
 ''I have my budget. I don't expect relief,'' she said. ''There's no free lunch here.''
 Many scientists said the roots of their plight lay in the Bush administration's refusal to ask Congress for enough money to carry out the Moon-Mars program, announced with fanfare two years ago. But others said they were partly to blame as well for pursuing an overly ambitious agenda in the face of cold realities like the Columbia shuttle disaster and concern about the mounting federal deficit.
 For example, the James Webb Space Telescope -- the designated successor to the Hubble telescope, designed to see back in time and space within a whisper of the Big Bang -- was ranked first on the astronomers' wish list in an influential National Academy of Sciences survey in 2000. But delays and technical problems have almost doubled its cost, to more than $4.5 billion, and postponed its launching by two years, to 2013. Meanwhile, planned repairs to the Hubble telescope will cost some $300 million.
 Once the Webb and Hubble telescopes, the two highest priorities, are included, said John Mather, an astronomer at the Goddard Space Flight Center and project scientist for the Webb telescope, ''almost everything else that isn't started had to be stopped.'' 
 ''People assume that when Congress votes for something they send extra money,'' Mr. Mather said. ''They don't.'' 
 Dr. Griffin and his colleagues, the scientists agree, have tough choices to make, but so far, the space scientists say, the choices have been made in a vacuum, without input from the community most affected, namely them.
 Last year NASA dismantled a longstanding network of scientific advisory committees, and while a new network is in the works, it is not yet in place.
 As a result, ''scientists feel very much left out of this process,'' Dr. Beichman said. ''You could have involved the community and said, 'Here's what we have to do.' ''
 He added, ''In the end, even scientists can be responsible.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An X-ray satellite observatory called NuStar is being cancelled after several years of development. It is shown here in an artist's rendering. (Photo Courtesy of Fiona A. Harrison/California Institute of Technology)
 Administrator Michael D. Griffin testified on the NASA budget before a House panel last month. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); SPACECRAFT (78%); SPACE STATIONS (78%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CONSERVATISM (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) MARS (93%); EARTH'S MOON (91%); JUPITER (79%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



19 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Lists Its Pluses and Minuses in Fighting Narcotics Worldwide

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
The Bush administration published an annual report Wednesday on international narcotics control, listing its accomplishments in disrupting the production and trafficking of cocaine, heroin, marijuana and other drugs to the United States.
 But perhaps the most important measure of the programs' efficacy was issued just a few weeks ago, when the White House drug-policy office reported that ''cocaine is widely available throughout most of the nation.'' The office offered similar assessments for heroin and marijuana.
 ''Yes, narcotics are readily available,'' said Anne Patterson, the assistant secretary of state for international narcotics enforcement. ''But if we weren't doing these projects, the problem would be dramatically worse.'' The government spent more than $1 billion last year fighting drugs. 
 The successes included Colombia's extradition of 134 suspects to the United States on trafficking and other criminal charges during 2005, the most ever. The report also noted that Laos had reduced its opium poppy cultivation to negligible levels, and that Thailand, once a major producer, had ''practically eliminated'' drug production, though that point was also made in the 2004 report. 
 In singling out trouble spots, the State Department report focused on two countries in particular, Colombia and Afghanistan.
 In Colombia, the United States has financed a multibillion-dollar antidrug program since 2000. Every year, thousands of acres of coca plant have been sprayed with herbicides; the department reported record spraying of 36,000 acres in 2005. 
 But each year, growers plant new bushes so quickly that for the past three years, acreage under cultivation has remained stable. As a result, the report said, ''Colombia is the source of 90 percent of the cocaine entering the United States.'' 
 Congress is to debate the financing for the Colombia project this spring. 
 The antidrug campaigns have run for more than 25 years, but, officials acknowledged, traffickers have almost always been able to meet American market demands. Drug enforcement officials measure their success on small fluctuations in purity and price. 
 On Wednesday, an official pointed to a note in the report that said preliminary reports indicated that enforcement efforts ''may have led to an increase in the U.S. street price of cocaine'' and ''a reduction in purity.'' 
 Afghanistan is the other country of major concern. About 30 percent of Afghanistan's economic activity is a result of opium poppy cultivation, which supplies about 90 percent of the world's heroin. 
 Ms. Patterson said intelligence information shows that poppy cultivation in Afghanistan was increasing this year. Last year, the administration warned that Afghanistan was ''on the verge of becoming a narcotics state.'' 
 On Wednesday Ms. Patterson said at a news conference that controlling production in Afghanistan ''is going to be a huge challenge'' and ''is going to take years and years and years.'' Most of the heroin produced from Afghan poppies is sold in Europe and Asia, not the United States. 
 Though the report did not address it, the administration remains gravely concerned about Evo Morales, the new president of Bolivia, who once led a major coca planters' union and has vowed to end the American-financed eradication programs. 
 Although Mr. Morales has not said what he intends to do, he has offered the paradoxical position that he will not impede coca cultivation but will fight drug trafficking. Government troops in charge of coca eradication have stopped work, awaiting orders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (91%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); COCAINE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CANNABIS (90%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); OPIUM (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); EXTRADITION (74%); CROP PRODUCTION (70%); HERBICIDES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); THAILAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



20 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Always Having to Say He's Sorry

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
If there were a trapdoor that was somehow rigged to open beneath the U.S. senators we really don't need, Conrad Burns of Montana would surely fall right through it.
 Mr. Burns is a racially insensitive Republican whose re-election bid this year has been jeopardized by his dealings with the G.O.P. superlobbyist Jack Abramoff. Mr. Abramoff has pleaded guilty to charges of fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy to bribe public officials. Among other things, he's admitted to bilking American Indians out of millions of dollars, and he's said to be singing louder than the fat lady to federal investigators.
Mr. Burns is reported to have received more money in the form of campaign contributions from Mr. Abramoff and his favor-strewing friends than any other member of Congress. This has delighted his political opponents, who have tried to show that Mr. Burns and Mr. Abramoff were as close as a pair of prisoners sharing a single set of handcuffs. 
 When The Times asked whether he or members of his staff might get caught up in the federal investigation, Mr. Burns said he didn't know. As he put it, ''You can't say yes and you can't say no.''
 The Abramoff scandal is just the latest issue to raise questions about Senator Burns's fitness to hold high public office. You've heard of accidents waiting to happen? He's an accident that happens again and again and again.
 Back in 1994, while campaigning for a second term, Senator Burns dropped by a local newspaper, The Bozeman Daily Chronicle, and told an editor an anecdote about one of his constituents, a rancher who wanted to know what life was like in Washington.
 Mr. Burns said the rancher asked him, ''Conrad, how can you live back there with all those niggers?''
 Senator Burns said he told the rancher it was ''a hell of a challenge.''
 The anecdote was published, and Senator Burns apologized. When he was asked why he hadn't expressed any disapproval when the rancher used the word nigger, the senator said: ''I don't know. I never gave it much thought.''
 Maybe he didn't express any disapproval because he didn't particularly disapprove. On another occasion Senator Burns had to apologize after giving a speech in Billings about America's dependence on foreign sources of oil. In the speech, he referred to Arabs as ''ragheads.''
 ''I regret the use of such an inappropriate term,'' he said. ''I hope I did not overshadow the serious substance of my remarks.''
 Mr. Burns's apologies have always been undermined by the serial nature of his offensive remarks. Last fall he upset a pair of female flight attendants after one of them, a mother with two children, asked him about outsourcing and the economy. She wondered what she would do if she lost her job. The senator reportedly replied that she could stay home and take care of her children.
 A third flight attendant, after hearing the story, wrote an angry letter to Mr. Burns, saying, ''Before you sit in judgment and make such ignorant statements, you really should stop and remember that we don't all live in a 'Leave It to Beaver' world.''
 It has always been this way with Conrad Burns. Back in 1991, immediately after a civil rights bill had been passed, he invited a group of lobbyists, some of them white and some of them black, to accompany him to an auction.
 When asked what was being auctioned, he replied, ''Slaves.''
 The Washington Post quoted one of the lobbyists as saying: ''We were floored. We couldn't believe it.'' Senator Burns later said he was talking about a charitable auction in which the services of individuals are sold.
 When you consider that clowns like Conrad Burns can inhabit some of the highest offices in the land, it's no longer such a mystery why the United States of America seems to be barreling down the wrong track at truly hair-raising speeds.
 As we've found with the war in Iraq and so many other important issues, leadership matters. And serious leaders in the U.S. have been in dangerously short supply.
 In response to questions about the Abramoff scandal, Mr. Burns has denied that he's done anything wrong. And he dismisses concerns about the amount of money he received. ''What's the difference between one dollar and one thousand?'' he said. ''It's all dollars. Just like you rob a bank down here. If you get a thousand you go to jail, and if you get a million you go to jail.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); ETHICS (72%); BRIBERY (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); TAX FRAUD (71%); TAX LAW (71%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (67%) Elections; Ethics; Election Issues; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Finances

PERSON: Bob Herbert; Conrad (Sen) Burns; Jack Abramoff

GEOGRAPHIC: BILLINGS, MT, USA (58%) MONTANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Montana; Montana

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



21 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Central American Trade Deal Is Being Delayed by Partners 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 1 

 BODY:
Two months after the Central American Free Trade Agreement was supposed to go into effect, only El Salvador is ready to join, frustrating a hard-won victory for Washington in its push toward free trade. 
 Of the five other countries that signed on to the pact known by its acronym, Cafta, four have yet to change a host of laws to bring them into line with the agreement. The pact requires them to open their economies to American trade and investment, dismantle protections for many local industries and enforce intellectual property rights in return for greater access to the United States market. Costa Rica, the fifth, has delayed ratification.
While the delay is in part a sign of how complex the negotiations have been, it also reflects the extent of the concerns about the agreement in the tiny economies it will affect. 
 As the legal changes make their way through the various legislatures, they have reignited opposition from an array of groups who fear the trade alliance with the United States will wipe out many local businesses and impoverish farmers. 
 To complicate matters, some Central American governments now say the United States is asking for more than the countries agreed to. 
 ''In some areas, Cafta is not precise,'' said Enrique Lacs, the deputy minister of foreign trade in Guatemala. The United States government ''wants precision based on its criteria.'' 
 Susan C. Schwab, a deputy United States trade representative, said in an interview that the United States was not asking for anything ''more than is necessary to comply'' with Cafta. ''Some of it,'' she said, ''may be misunderstandings of what we're asking.'' 
 The United States trade representative's office says that the delays will not stop the accord and that countries may join the agreement one by one when they are ready. El Salvador, which has changed its laws, has begun to carry out the accord. 
 Central American presidents sold the agreement to their countries as a way to broaden access to the American market for the region's textile and agricultural exports and to attract much-needed foreign investment. But the details are proving a harder sell.
 Robert E. Scott, a senior international economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, which opposes the accord, said Central American governments realized they ''have to spend more political capital'' to bring their laws into compliance with Cafta. 
 Trade experts say that interest groups in all countries, including the United States, are trying to get the best deal for themselves in the small print. ''The political jockeying and pork barreling and lobbying doesn't stop when the ink is dry,'' said Russell Roberts, a professor of economics at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., who supports free trade. 
 Nicaragua and Honduras may follow El Salvador before midyear, their officials have said. The government of the Dominican Republic, a Caribbean country that is also part of the accord, said it would not be able to join until at least July. 
 The deal has proved the most divisive in Costa Rica, where it has been stalled by protests from powerful unions of state-run companies and by concerns that it would weaken the country's social safety net. Although the pro-Cafta candidate, Oscar Arias, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, appears to have won the Feb. 5 election after a manual recount, his 18,000-vote margin and the lack of an outright legislative majority suggest that he will have a hard time getting the accord through his nation's Congress. 
 Resistance has also arisen in Guatemala, where the government pushed forward on the accord despite opposition protests last year that left two people dead. 
 Many public health experts warn that Cafta's complex intellectual property rules, which are more stringent than those in the World Trade Organization, will make it harder for Guatemala to import or produce generic versions of new generations of anti-AIDS drugs. 
 The American negotiators ''are responding to the demands of the American pharmaceutical industry to protect their products,'' said Mr. Lacs, Guatemala's foreign trade official. 
 Even in El Salvador, opposition continues. On Tuesday, unions, students, street vendors and other groups opposing Cafta marched in the streets of San Salvador, and five people were injured when the protests grew violent. 
 Despite this political resistance, few believe that the delays will derail Cafta. Peter Hakim, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington research organization on Latin America, said: ''It's hard to imagine that someone runs 25 miles to complete a marathon and you tell him there's one more mile to go and he then says, 'Forget it.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Packing soap at a factory in El Salvador, the only one of the six countries that signed the pact with the United States that is starting to act. (Photo by Luis Romero/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); AGRICULTURE (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) International Trade and World Market; Treaties; Central American Free Trade Agreement

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Susan C Schwab; Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EL SALVADOR (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); NICARAGUA (79%); MEXICO (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); GUATEMALA (79%) El Salvador ; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



22 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Justices Reverse a Longstanding Patent Rule

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court handed a legal victory to patent-holding companies on Wednesday, making it easier for them to tie the sale of their patented products to other products they sell. 
 The Supreme Court reversed a decades-long legal doctrine that made it easier to sue companies for illegally tying such products together by assuming that a patent gave them monopolistic power as defined by antitrust law.
The case grew out of a lawsuit filed by a small California company, Independent Ink, which said that a subsidiary of Illinois Tool Works had illegally required buyers of its patented printheads to use its ink to fill them.
 In Wednesday's ruling, the justices sent the printer ink case back to a lower court, saying that for Independent Ink to prevail it would have to prove that Illinois Tool had market power. 
 The Supreme Court said in its ruling that ''because a patent does not necessarily confer market power upon the patentee, in all cases involving a tying arrangement, the plaintiff must prove that the defendant has market power in the tying product.''
 Illinois Tool had prevailed in Federal District Court, where a judge threw out the case. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit partly reversed that judgment, citing the precedent that holding a patent automatically confers market power.
 The impact of the ruling goes beyond the ink business. Illinois Tool's challenge was supported by companies and trade groups from the pharmaceutical and media industries, including Pfizer, the Motion Picture Association of America and the National Football League.
 But the challenge was opposed by some consumer groups, who feared it could lead to higher prices, particularly in the market for replacement parts.
 ''This will encourage companies that have patents to exploit them through tying conditions,'' Bert Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, said after the ruling.
 Also on Wednesday, Supreme Court justices appeared to lean toward upholding Ohio's investment tax credit program, which was created to encourage economic development in a case involving large tax breaks to DaimlerChrysler for a Jeep plant in Toledo.
 The justices spent most of their time during hourlong arguments questioning whether the plaintiffs -- a group of Ohio residents and owners of small businesses -- even had the legal standing or right to challenge the investment tax credits.
 The justices seemed skeptical of the argument that the tax breaks unconstitutionally discriminate against interstate commerce by giving preferential treatment to investment within the state.
 The total value of the tax incentives by state and local governments for DaimlerChrysler to build the assembly plant was about $280 million, including the investment tax credit and a 10-year local property tax exemption.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PATENTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (85%); TAX INCENTIVES (85%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); STANDING TO SUE (76%); PRINTING INK (75%); PRINTING INK MFG (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (70%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (61%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Inventions and Patents; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Computers and the Internet; Computer Printers; Ink; Inventions and Patents

COMPANY: ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC (57%); PFIZER INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT (55%) Supreme Court (US); Independent Ink; Illinois Tool Works Inc

TICKER: ITW (NYSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFEB (BRU) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS332722 BOLT, NUT, SCREW, RIVET & WASHER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (57%); SIC3542 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL FORMING TYPE (57%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (57%); SIC3452 BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



23 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Do You Need a License to Earn a Living? You Might Be Surprised at the Answer 

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. His Web site is www.krueger.princeton.edu.

 BODY:
IT is well known that doctors, dentists, and lawyers must be licensed to practice their professions. But what about occupational therapists, manicurists and barbers? How about fortune tellers, massage therapists, shampoo assistants, librarians, beekeepers, electrologists and movie projector operators? These are just a sampling of the hundreds of occupations that require a license in at least some states or counties. 
 In a new book, ''Licensing Occupations: Ensuring Quality or Restricting Competition?'' (Upjohn Institute, 2006), Morris M. Kleiner, an economist at the University of Minnesota, questions whether occupational licensing has gone too far. He provides much evidence that the balance of occupational licensing has shifted away from protecting consumers and toward limiting the supply of workers in various professions. A result is that services provided by licensed workers are more expensive than necessary and that quality is not noticeably affected. 
Licensing standards vary by state and occupation, but typically require a minimum level of education in a specified field and a passing score on a test of competence. Licenses also typically require payment of a fee. Some states recognize licenses from other states in various job categories, while others do not. 
 Although the exact number of workers in jobs that require a license is not available, Professor Kleiner conservatively estimates that 20 percent of workers in 2000 were in an occupation that was covered by a state licensing requirement, up from 5 percent in the 1950's. 
 He said that licensing has mushroomed because the service sector, where licensing is more prevalent, has grown rapidly and because more occupations have started requiring licenses. 
 The percentage of workers who are licensed varies considerably across states, ranging from a high of 30 percent in California to a low of 6 percent in Mississippi. 
 A state-by-state list of the occupations covered by licensing requirements is available from www.acinet.org/acinet/licensedoccupations. 
 Taking into account local and federal government requirements raises the number of licensed workers even higher. For example, a survey conducted by the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University last fall found that 31.6 percent of New Jersey workers said that they were in a job requiring a federal, state or local license; Professor Kleiner estimated that 18.4 percent of workers in New Jersey were required to have a state license. 
 Perhaps as many as 3 of every 10 workers nationwide are required to obtain a license to do their job. 
 The usual rationale for occupational licensing is that it helps protect the public from unqualified providers. When it comes to matters of life and death, like jobs in the medical fields, this rationale is on stronger ground than when it comes to a manicure or a shampoo. 
 Several studies have examined the effect of license requirements on performance in occupations like dentists and teachers. In one study, Professor Kleiner and a colleague, Robert T. Kudrle, found that stricter state licensing requirements for dentists did not noticeably affect the dental health of 464 Air Force recruits. Other studies have found at best weak evidence that students in classes taught by licensed teachers performed better than those taught by unlicensed teachers. 
 Summarizing the literature, Professor Kleiner concludes, ''there is little to show that occupational regulation has a major effect on the quality of service received by consumers.'' 
 At the same time, the hurdles imposed by occupational licensing reduce the supply of workers in many regulated professions, which drives up wages in those jobs and the price of services. Dentists, for example, were found to earn and charge 11 percent more in states with the most restrictive licensing requirements. While tough licensing standards may help higher-income consumers avoid low-quality providers, it also appears to prevent lower-income consumers from gaining access to some services. 
 Professor Kleiner said that a frequent pattern was for workers who have common interests and provide a homogeneous service to form an association. That association then seeks regulation to restrict the number of people who can work in the occupation. The state legislature and governor have little incentive to resist this pressure because the state gains revenue from license fees. 
 The most notable opposition to licensing comes from large buyers like hospitals, which object to the monopolization of their suppliers. In most cases, however, consumers are diffuse and have little individual incentive to oppose licensing. 
 Another factor driving the growth of occupational licensing is the decline of labor unions. Apparently, the labor market abhors a vacuum; it needs some institutions and rules to function. Occupational licensing has replaced unions as the main labor market institution. There are now more than twice as many workers covered by occupational licensing provisions as are covered by a labor union contract. 
 ''There is a lot more flexibility with unions than occupational licensing,'' Professor Kleiner said. Unions, he pointed out, negotiate at the company level and can be decertified, whereas occupational license requirements are typically statewide and rarely repealed. 
 While it is unlikely that the tide of occupational licensing will be reversed anytime soon, one practical solution would be to require licensing boards to have some representatives of the public serve as members to look out for consumers' interests. In addition, states could require that the boards verify that successful completion of their licensing requirements is linked to better job performance. 
 Professor Kleiner also recommended that certification be considered as an alternative to licensing. Certification sends a signal that workers have certain qualifications, but does not prevent consumers from purchasing services from uncertified providers if they so choose. 
 In a rational world, as I wrote in a blurb on the back cover of Professor Kleiner's book, the available research should provoke a reconsideration of whether occupational licensing is beneficial for society as a whole or only for those lucky enough to hold licenses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (90%); LIBRARIANS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TRENDS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); LITERATURE (77%); APICULTURE (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (72%) Labor; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Economic Conditions and Trends; Consumer Protection; Books and Literature; Labor; United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends; Housing ; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Sales; Building (Construction) ; Consumer Behavior

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%) Commerce Department

PERSON: Morris M (Prof) Kleiner; Alan B Kreuger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



24 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: March Comes In With a Rally on Strong Earnings News

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday as gains in the network equipment maker Cisco Systems and other technology shares helped drive the Nasdaq composite index up more than 1 percent in a rebound from Tuesday's sharp losses. 
 Strong earnings from companies like Autodesk, the software maker, and American Eagle Outfitters, the clothing retailer, also improved sentiment about profits and gave investors another reason to buy stocks.
 ''It's the start of a new month, and I definitely think there's money around looking to be put to work in stocks,'' said Todd Clark, director of stock trading at Nollenberger Capital Partners in San Francisco. 
 The Nasdaq composite index gained 33.25 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 2,314.64. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.12 points, or 0.6 percent, to 11,053.53. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 10.58 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,291.24. 
 Shares of energy companies rose as crude oil for April delivery gained almost 1 percent, or 56 cents, to settle at $61.97 a barrel after government inventory data indicated strong gasoline demand. 
 Oil prices also were driven higher after Nigerian militants made a fresh threat to attack a new oil industry target, and after news that Jordan had foiled a suicide bombing plot by militants, including Saudis, Libyans and Iraqis.
 Shares of Exxon Mobil rose 1.6 percent, or 97 cents, to $60.34 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Integrated oil and gas companies, as well as communications equipment makers, were among the top-performing sectors on the S.& P. 500. 
 On the earnings front, Cisco rose 4.1 percent, or 82 cents, to $21.06, and pushed other tech shares higher. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index gained 4.3 percent. 
 Autodesk reported stronger-than-expected profit and lifted its forecast for 2007. Shares of Autodesk rose 10.7 percent, or $4.03, to $41.68.
 Medco Health Solutions, a manager of pharmacy benefits, reported a stronger-than-expected gain of 33 percent in quarterly profit. Medco shares jumped 6.4 percent, or $3.56, to $59.28. 
 Wednesday's gains helped the stock market recover some ground from a hard fall on Tuesday, driven by a steep drop in the shares of the Web search company Google. Shares of Google were up 0.6 percent, or $2.18, to $364.80 yesterday after Tuesday's sell-off, when the price fell 7 percent. 
 ''Google's shock yesterday has kind of worn off,'' Mr. Clark said. 
 A youth-oriented retailer, American Eagle Outfitters, gained 13.5 percent, or $3.44, to $28.91 on the Nasdaq. 
 Joy Global, which makes heavy equipment for the mining industry, reported higher earnings that beat analysts' estimates. Its stock rose almost 14.4 percent, or $7.42, to $58.98 on the Nasdaq. 
 ''Earnings remain fairly strong, and stocks are still inexpensive when compared with other asset classes,'' said Rick Campagna, a portfolio manager at Provident Investment Council in Pasadena, Calif. 
 Shares of General Motors fell 2 percent, or 41 cents, to $19.90. The automaker's February retail sales rose 1 percent, while fleet sales fell 11 percent, G.M. said yesterday.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note declined 10/32, to a price of 9910/32. 
 The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.58 percent, from 4.55 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); MINING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); GASOLINE (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (66%); BOMBINGS (66%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); MINES & MINING (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (84%); AUTODESK INC (84%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (75%); JOY GLOBAL INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); AEO (NYSE) (84%); ADSK (NASDAQ) (84%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (75%); JOY (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (75%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (75%); NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3554 PAPER INDUSTRIES MACHINERY (58%); SIC3532 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



25 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Reports Give Conflicting Views of Congestion Pricing in City

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
For an idea that barely exists on paper and has the support of neither the mayor nor the City Council, congestion pricing -- charging a fee for driving into the busiest areas of the city at the busiest times -- has attracted a striking amount of controversy. 
 Last week, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, responding to an advocacy group's report about traffic congestion in Manhattan, said that congestion pricing was among several options the city should examine. That rankled opponents of congestion pricing, who released their own report yesterday saying it would hurt retailers and other businesses. 
The flurry of activity comes as the Partnership for New York City, an influential association of business leaders, is completing a major study of whether congestion pricing would be feasible. 
 The study was to be completed by the end of last year, but its release was delayed until this month, in part because Mr. Bloomberg distanced himself from the plan after he was re-elected in November. At the time, his spokesman said the idea was not on the mayor's second-term agenda.
 Last week, however, Mr. Bloomberg struck a more moderate tone at a news conference in Harlem, where he was asked about a report by Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group for pedestrians and cyclists. That report argued that most people who drive private cars into Manhattan south of 60th Street do so for comfort or convenience, not for economic necessity, and could easily switch to mass transit. 
 ''We are trying to make traffic flow more freely,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''There are places in the world that have tried congestion pricing. And it's certainly something that we should be looking at.''
 But the mayor also argued that there were unforeseen drawbacks to many alternatives that looked good on paper -- like shifting truck deliveries to nighttime hours and installing speed bumps on busy streets. ''The real world is, not everybody is going to use mass transit,'' he said. ''I think it's relatively impractical to take a whole bunch of city streets and say we're just not going to allow cars on them.''
 Stu Loeser, a spokesman for the mayor, emphasized yesterday that Mr. Bloomberg had not changed his views. ''The mayor's remarks in Harlem should not be interpreted as a loosening or easing up of his position last November,'' he said. 
 Even so, congestion-pricing foes have been galvanized into action.
 The Queens Chamber of Commerce, which has 1,300 members, and Councilman David I. Weprin of Queens released a report arguing that while reducing congestion was ''a worthwhile objective,'' congestion pricing would reduce consumer spending and tax revenues and harm small businesses and commuters who drive. A reduction of 40,000 people entering Manhattan each day could result in a $1.9 billion reduction in spending, according to the report.
 Parking-garage owners have been fierce critics of congestion-pricing proposals; Vincent L. Petraro, a lawyer who represents the Metropolitan Parking Association, an industry group, is a chairman of the Queens chamber's legislative committee. 
 Supporters of congestion pricing said the report relied on unsound assumptions because it did not consider the lost productivity and wasted time caused by slow-moving buses and cars.
 Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the partnership, said that London's experiment in congestion pricing, which began in 2003, was a success. ''Our conversations with the leadership in London, in government and business, show that they are enthusiastic about the positive results,'' she said. 
 Peter H. Kostmayer, president of Citizens for NYC, a nonprofit organization that gives grants to neighborhood groups around the city, urged Mr. Bloomberg to remain open-minded. ''We're focusing on four problems -- congestion, danger, noise and pollution -- and we think this is a simple, bold, dramatic step, like the citywide smoking ban, that could solve all four at once,'' he said.
 Mr. Kostmayer conceded that congestion pricing was controversial. ''It's not consistent with the American ideal that you can do whatever you want, whenever you want,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Roads and Traffic; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Partnership for New York City; Transportation Alternatives (Orgn)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006



26 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; SPARE TIMES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1901 words

 BODY:

Attractions

Museums and Sites

HISPANIC SOCIETY OF AMERICA, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, Washington Heights. Through April 23, ''The Art and Illustrations of Daniel Urrabieta Vierge (1851-1904),'' an exhibition of 50 works. A gallery talk tomorrow at noon by Patrick Lenaghan, curator of prints and photographs. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Free. (212) 926-2234. 


NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN, United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. On view through April 9, ''Expeditions of the Spirit,'' artwork by Lorenzo Clayton, a Navajo Indian, last in the series ''New Tribe: New York,'' featuring works by American Indian artists in New York. Also through April 9: ''First American Art: The Charles and Valerie Diker Collection,'' 200 pieces of North American Indian art. Through May 2007, ''Born of Clay: Ceramics From the National Museum of the American Indian.'' Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; free. (212) 514-3700.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. Tonight at 6:30, a lecture by the author Toni Morrison; fee: $12; members, students and 65+, $6. Tomorrow night at 7, a performance of spirituals by the Fisk Jubilee Singers; fee: $25; members, students and 65+, $20. Through March 26, ''Slavery in New York,'' a multimedia exhibition with paintings, documents, video re-enactments and audio narratives. Through March 19, ''Finding Priscilla's Children: The Roots and Branches of Slavery,'' which documents the story of a 10-year-old girl taken from her home in Sierra Leone in 1756 and sent to a South Carolina plantation. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 8 p.m. on Fridays). Admission: $10; students and 65+, $5; under 12, free. (212) 873-3400.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center Plaza. Through May 26, ''Show Business!: Irving Berlin's Broadway,'' an exhibition of photographs, posters and scores. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m. Free. (212) 870-1630.

Gardens

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Southern Boulevard and 200th Street, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Through April 2, ''The Orchid Show,'' with more than 8,000 plants. Related events this weekend include: expert-led tours (today at 2:30 p.m.); a workshop, ''Repot, Divide and Conquer'' (today at noon); gardening demonstrations, ''Potting and Dividing Orchids'' (tomorrow and Sunday at 1:30 p.m.); a discussion, ''Darwin and Orchid Evolution'' (tomorrow at 3 p.m.); and a floral demonstration, ''Orchid Extravaganza'' (Sunday at 3 p.m.) Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Special admission prices during the Orchid Show: Tuesdays through Thursdays: $15; $13 for 62+ and students; $5 for children. Fridays through Sundays, and Monday holidays: $18, $16 and $5. Garden grounds admission: $6; 62+, $3; students, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Combination ticket, including all admissions and a tram tour: $13; 62+ and students, $11; children 2 to 12, $5; under 2, free. Tram tours daily, every 40 minutes. Conservatory admission: $5; students and 62+, $4; 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Grounds admission free on Wednesdays, and 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays; parking, $7. (718) 817-8700; nybg.org.

WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Shadow Play in the Rainforest,'' a family art project that includes a puppet performance, followed by a shadow puppet workshop. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Hearty Herbal Soups,'' a demonstration in using herbs in meat and vegetable soups. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Culinary and Medicinal Uses of Aloe & Agave,'' a demonstration in using these succulents in beverages and remedies. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; till 9 p.m. on Wednesdays in July. Admission: $4; students and 65+, $2; under 6, free; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon. (718) 549-3200.

Events

New York City

GRAMERCY GARDEN AND ANTIQUES SHOW, 69th Regiment Armory, Lexington Avenue at 26th Street. Today and tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Presented by Stella Management, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden and Garden Design Magazine. Admission: $12. (212) 255-0020.

2006 WOMEN'S PERFORMANCE FESTIVAL, BAX/Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope. Tonight through March 12, music, dance, theater and writing. This weekend: ''Cheeky Women/Trouble Makin' Lady,'' with the Brooklyn Women's Chorus and Brooklyn Community Storytellers (tonight and tomorrow night at 8); ''Navigating Your Legacy: Daughters, Mothers and Grandmothers,'' a writing workshop (tomorrow at 2 p.m.); ''Sunday Series Dance and Performance,'' with Inspirit, Sarah Smith and Zany Angels Dance Theater Company (Sunday night at 6). Performance admission: $15; members, $10; low-income, $8. Writing workshop: $20 (or $35 for two people). Reservations: (718) 832-0018 or bax.org.'TARGET FIRST SATURDAY,' Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park. Tomorrow, with free music, dance and film, including Mardi Gras music by the Jeff Newell New-Trad Octet (6 to 8 p.m.); a picture-frame workshop inspired by the exhibition ''Symphonic Poem: The Art of Aminah Brenda Lynn Robinson'' (6:30 to 8:30 p.m.); a guided tour (7 p.m.); screenings from the Brooklyn International Film Festival (8:30 p.m.); and a dance party (9 to 11 p.m.). Some events require tickets, which are available at the museum one hour before the event. (718) 638-5000.

'PLACE, RACE, MONEY AND ART: THE ECONOMICS AND DEMOGRAPHICS OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION,' Columbia University, Altschul Auditorium, Room 417, Amsterdam Avenue at West 118th Street, Morningside Heights. A weekend event with panel discussions tomorrow, 9:30 a.m. to 6:15 p.m., and walking tours in Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx on Sunday, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Conference admission: $25 ($15 for students). Tour tickets: $25. Sponsored by Historic District Council; www.hdc.org.

'KEEPING THE FAITH IN BROOKLYN: THE BEGINNINGS OF THE JEWISH COMMUNITY IN THE CITY OF CHURCHES,' Kane Street Synagogue, 236 Kane Street, Brooklyn Heights. A symposium on the religious and cultural history of the community, with scholars and representatives from congregations. Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $15 ($20 at the door), including lunch; $10 and $15 for students; program only, $10. Reservations: (718) 875-1550.

CONTEMPORARY VIETNAMESE FILMS, Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street. Tonight at 7, ''Glorious Time in Me Thao Hamlet'' (2002), directed by Nguyen Viet Linh; Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Sandy Lives'' (1999), directed by Nguyen Thanh Van. Both are in Vietnamese, with English subtitles. Admission to each: $10; members, $7; students, $5. (212) 517-2742.

WATSON ADVENTURES Tomorrow at 3 p.m., ''The Museum of Natural Hysteria Hunt,'' a search for surreal items in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Fee: $30, including museum admission. Advance purchase required: www.watsonadventures.com or (212) 726-1529.

Walking Tours

New York City

BROOKLYN CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Tomorrow at noon, ''Lost Theaters of Downtown Brooklyn'' includes stops at historic theaters, including vaudeville stages, burlesque houses and movie palaces, meeting in front of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene. Fee: $11; members, $9; students, $8. (718) 788-8500, ext. 208.

SHOREWALKER Tomorrow at 10:30 a.m., ''Beautiful Bridges and Parks on Northern Harlem River,'' a five- to eight-mile walk, beginning at 207th Street and Broadway, Inwood. Fee: $3. (212) 663-2167.

'SAINTS AND SIGNS TOUR' The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights. Views images in paintings, glasswork and stone, tomorrow at 12:45 p.m. Fee: $10; 62+ and children, $8. (212) 932-7347.

'GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL: CROSSROADS OF A MILLION PRIVATE LIVES,' sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York and meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. on the southwest corner of 42nd Street and Park Avenue; fee, $12; (212) 242-5762.

DR. PHIL's NEW YORK WALKS AND TALKS Sunday at 1:30 p.m., ''The Lower East Side of Eleanor Roosevelt and Lillian Wald'' looks at the social service organizations and settlement houses of the area, meeting in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street, between Ludlow and Essex Streets. Fee: $15. (718) 591-4741 or (888) 377-4455.

HARLEM, YOUR WAY! Sunday at 10:15 a.m., ''Experience the Beauty of Harlem Gospel'' includes a visit to a local church and a tour of the Harlem community, meeting at 129 West 130th Street. Fee: $25. An optional meal follows. (212) 690-1687.

OUTDOORS CLUB Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Little Italy in the Bronx,'' a two-mile walk that includes lunch and ends at the New York Botanical Garden. Fee: $3. (718) 361-2585.

ANNUAL ACADEMY AWARD WEEKEND FAMOUS FILM SITES visits locations on the East and West Sides of Manhattan.Tomorrow and Sunday at 12:45 p.m. (East Side); tomorrow and Sunday at 3 p.m. (West Side). Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Fee for each: $13. Meeting place: (212) 465-3331.

STUYVESANT PARK AND GRAMERCY PARK HISTORIC DISTRICTS, meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. on the northeast corner of 14th Street and First Avenue, East Village. Fee: $15. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. (212) 979-2388.

NEW YORK CITY CHINATOWN TOURS Tomorrow at noon, a tour of the area, ending with lunch. Led by Michael Gray. Fee: $20, including lunch. Meeting place: (646) 713-9960.

'HISTORIC GREENWICH VILLAGE' will focus on residents' contributions to life in New York City, meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. at Christopher Street Park, Seventh Avenue South and Christopher Street. Sponsored by Bowery and Canal Walking Tours. Fee: $12; students and 65+, $10. (212) 979-9013.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''SoHo Ghosts,'' meeting outside the Old St. Patrick's Cathedral, corner of Prince and Mott Streets. Fee: $10. (212) 969-8262.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., the saloons and dance halls of the Bowery, covered in a tour meeting at the black cube at Astor Place. Fee: $15; 63+, $12; students and New-York Historical Society members, $10. (212) 439-1090.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Free weekend tours of Central Park. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Seneca Village'' focuses on one of the earliest communities of black American property owners, meeting at the southeast corner of Central Park West and 85th Street. Sunday at noon, ''Views From the Past'' covers the history of the park, meeting at the Dairy, midpark at 65th Street; centralparknyc.org.

METRO TOUR SERVICE visits Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, today through Sunday at 2 p.m., meeting in front of the Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Fee: $25. (718) 789-0430.

Recreation

New York City

COOGAN'S SALSA BLUES AND SHAMROCKS 5K RUN, Fort Washington Avenue, at 168th Street, Washington Heights. Sunday at 9 a.m. Begins and ends in front of Armory Track and Field Center, Fort Washington Avenue and 168th Street, Washington Heights. Children's race follows at 10 a.m. Sponsored by New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration: $20; $14 for members; $10 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $30; $20 for members; $12 for 18 and younger and 62+. Children's race: $5. (212) 860-4455; www.nyrrc.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MUSEUMS -- Toni Morrison speaks tonight at the historical society. (Photo by MJ Kim/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (91%); CALENDARS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); HISTORY (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); WRITERS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); GARDENING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



27 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS: MARCH 3 - MARCH 9; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 16387 words

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'MEASURE FOR MEASURE' Opens Sunday. The resourceful Pearl Theater tries to provide an answer to this problem play (2:30). Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802.

'BERNARDA ALBA' Opens Monday. The Tony winner Phylicia Rashad (''A Raisin in the Sun'') plays another formidable matriarchal figure with an iron will in Lincoln Center Theater's musical version of Lorca's ''House of Bernarda Alba.'' Michael John LaChiusa, who already has one musical to his name this season, ''See What I Wanna See,'' contributes music and lyrics (1:30). Mitzi Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.

'THE MUSIC TEACHER, A PLAY/OPERA' Opens Monday. This artistic hybrid by Wallace Shawn and his brother, Allen, is a drama about the making of an opera that features -- are you still following? -- operatic flashbacks (1:50). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100.

'GREY GARDENS' Opens Tuesday. Maybe the biggest question mark of the musical season, this intriguing show is an adaptation of the cult documentary about the eccentric relatives of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis (2:30). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'FAMILY SECRETS' Opens Wednesday. Sherry Glaser plays her entire family in this revival of her 1993 autobiographical solo show about moving from the Bronx to Southern California (1:30). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'MEASURE FOR PLEASURE' Opens Wednesday. A new play by David Grimm (''Kit Marlowe'') that is part Restoration comedy, part modern sex comedy (2:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200.

'GEORGE M. COHAN TONIGHT!' Previews start tonight. Opens 9Thursday. It's been almost four decades since Joel Grey starred on Broadway as the complex, brilliant composer in ''George M!'' -- more than enough time for another look at the author of ''Yankee Doodle Dandy.'' In this version, which includes the songs of Mr. Cohan, Jon Peterson stars (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737.

'ENTERTAINING MR. SLOANE' Opens March 16. Alec Baldwin stars in Joe Orton's jet-black comedy about a handsome stranger who seduces everyone else onstage (2:00). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'HARD RIGHT' Previews start Tuesday. Opens March 12. In David Barth's dark comedy, a slacker college student takes his girlfriend home to meet his parents, and a family trauma interrupts everything (1:30). Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101.

'JACQUES BRIEL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' Previews start Sunday. Opens March 27. Something of a phenomenon in the late 1960's, the French singer's romantic music returns to New York in this musical, which features tangos, ballads, boleros and rock 'n' roll (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'RING OF FIRE' Opens March 12. Johnny Cash hits form the backbone of this musical about three couples. So far, it's received surprisingly good buzz. Richard Maltby Jr. directs (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'SIDD' Opens March 15. Herman Hesse's novel ''Siddhartha,'' the musical version (2:15). Dodger Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'BAREFOOT IN THE PARK' For a work that celebrates the liberating force of spontaneity, this revival of Neil Simon's 1963 comedy doesn't have one scene that feels organic, let alone impromptu. Directed by Scott Elliott, and starring Patrick Wilson and a miscast Amanda Peet as newlyweds in Greenwich Village, this ''barefoot'' has the robotic gait of Frankenstein's monster (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring Jonathan Pryce and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Eileen Atkins), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Ron Eldard), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'THE PAJAMA GAME' Sexual chemistry in a Broadway musical? Isn't that illegal now? If it were, then Harry Connick Jr. and Kelli O'Hara -- the white-hot stars of Kathleen Marshall's delicious revival of this 1954 musical -- would be looking at long jail terms. This intoxicating production, which features a charming supporting cast led by Michael McKean, allows grown-up audiences the rare chance to witness a bona fide adult love affair translated into hummable songs and sprightly dance (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300.

* 'RABBIT HOLE' Thanks to a certain former American president, it has become almost impossible to say that you feel someone else's pain without its sounding like a punch line. Yet the sad, sweet release of David Lindsay-Abaire's wrenching play, about the impact of the death of a small child, lies precisely in the access it allows to the pain of others, in its meticulously mapped empathy. With an emotionally transparent five-member cast led by Cynthia Nixon and Tyne Daly, directed by Daniel Sullivan, this anatomy of grief doesn't so much jerk tears as tap them (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

* 'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Scott Elliott's thoroughly delectable production of Mike Leigh's 1977 comedy about domestic discord among the British middle classes. Jennifer Jason Leigh leads a superb ensemble cast as a party hostess who wields the gin bottle like a deadly weapon, resulting in an evening of savagely funny chaos (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'ACTS OF MERCY: PASSION-PLAY' If there is a coherent story to Michael John Garces' ''Acts of Mercy: passion-play,'' it is resolutely kept from the audience. As the efforts of two brothers to reconcile with a dying father progress, it seems possible that viewers are meant to discern the consequences of family trauma from punchy monosyllabic combat and repeated expletives, but their efforts to connect are continually frustrated (2:15). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, west of Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 868-4444. (Honor Moore)

* 'ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL' This Theater for a New Audience production inspires a quiet prayer of thanks to the theater gods. Here is that rare Shakespeare production in which there is nary an incompetent, misjudged or ineffective performance in a significant role. Darko Tresnjak and his cast find a way to make the play's troubled romance, between the adoring Helena and the disdaining Bertram, psychologically credible and even touching (2:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'CHRISTINE JORGENSON REVEALS' Bradford Louryk meticulously lip-syncs a fascinating hourlong interview about gender and sexuality with Ms. Jorgenson, whose sex change operation in the 1950's was big news (1:00). The Studio Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Jason Zinoman)

'CLEAN ALTERNATIVES' Brian Dykstra's improbable comedy details the good fight fought by a businesswoman turned environmental activist taking on a toxin-spreading megacorporation. The play also depicts the moral transformation of a rapacious lawyer into a love-smitten puppy dog. Call it a fairy tale for our time (2:00). 59E59 Theaters , 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'CONFESSIONS OF A MORMON BOY' Steven Fales, a sixth-generation Mormon, describes leaving his family and becoming a gay escort in this fairly conventional, although admittedly compelling, piece of confessional theater (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. (Zinoman)

'DEFIANCE' The second play in John Patrick Shanley's cycle of morality dramas that began with ''Doubt,'' this ambitious tale of racial relations and the military mindset on a North Carolina marine base feels both overcrowded and oddly diffuse. If ''Doubt'' has an elegant and energy-efficient sprinter's gait, ''Defiance'' progresses with a flustered air of distraction. The excellent Margaret Colin, as an officer's wife, provides a welcome shot of credibility (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, Theater 1, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'DOG SEES GOD: CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE BLOCKHEAD' The ''Peanuts'' characters grow up, do drugs and have sex in this dark, disposable parody. Good grief (1:30). Century Center for the Performing Arts, 111 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and, on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast. So, while literally and figuratively giving off many good vibes, it adds up to lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'FANNY HILL' It's a musical version of the scandalous John Cleland novel, but it's not scandalous, very. It is, however, sometimes pretty funny, thanks to the incongruous eye of Ed Dixon, who wrote the book, lyrics and music (2:10). York Theater, at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 868-4444. (Neil Genzlinger)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'I LOVE YOU BECAUSE' The plot line -- single New Yorkers in search of love -- couldn't be more familiar, but somehow this fluffy, funny musical makes it refreshing, helped along by an engaging six-member cast, with David A. Austin making a particularly hilarious impression. An impressive start for Ryan Cunningham (book and lyrics) and Joshua Salzman (music), both still in their 20's (2:00). Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, near Sullivan Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100. (Genzlinger)

'INDOOR/OUTDOOR' A comedy by Kenny Finkle about a housecat torn between affection for her human companion and a sexy tomcat promising a tour of the great outdoors. Directed by Darren Goldstein and energetically performed by a cast of four, it's essentially just another dysfunctional relationship tale, with little kitty whiskers drawn on (1:50). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

* 'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Please turn off your political correctness monitor along with your cellphone for Martin McDonagh's gleeful, gory and appallingly entertaining play. This blood farce about terrorism in rural Ireland, acutely directed by Wilson Milam, has a carnage factor to rival Quentin Tarantino's. But is also wildly, absurdly funny and, even more improbably, severely moral (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RED LIGHT WINTER' A frank, occasionally graphic story of erotic fixation and the havoc it can wreak on sensitive types. Written and directed by Adam Rapp, the play is both a doomy romantic drama and a morbid comedy about the anxieties of male friendship. Although somewhat contrived, it features a lovely performance by Christopher Denham as a lonely soul starved for intimacy (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

* 'THE SEVEN' The wild ride of luckless ol' Oedipus -- accidentally offing Dad, marrying Mom, being dissed by the kids -- gets pimped to the nines in this frisky and funny new riff on the classic story. Written by Will Power and directed by Jo Bonney, the show is a freewheeling adaptation of one of the more static, less revered Greek tragedies, Aeschylus' ''Seven Against Thebes'': a hip-hop musical comedy-tragedy (2:00). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SOLDIER'S WIFE' When this play first opened on Broadway, World War II was shuddering to a close, and those on the home front wanted to feel good. Despite flaws in the work, the Mint Theater Company's revival of Rose Franken's 1944 comedy is highly entertaining (2:00). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Moore)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to the classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. (Isherwood)

* 'THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL' Led by Lois Smith in a heart-wrenching performance, the cast never strikes a false note in Harris Yulin's beautifully mounted revival of Horton Foote's drama, finding an emotional authenticity in a work largely remembered as a tear-jerking chestnut. This is not to say you should neglect to bring handkerchiefs (1:50). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. (Brantley)

'THE WOODEN BREEKS' The line dividing inspired whimsy from tedious nonsense can be a fine one, and much of this new play by Glen Berger falls on the wrong side of it. An elaborately conceived comedy seeking to celebrate the consolations of storytelling, it unfolds the tale of a Scottish tinker who dreams up imaginary worlds to keep despair at bay. The cast is colorful, but the play is pallid, despite an intricate -- make that convoluted -- narrative (2:00). MCC Theater, at the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'BELLY OF A DRUNKEN PIANO' In this splendidly imperfect cabaret, Stewart D'Arrietta howls and growls convincingly through Tom Waits's three-decade song catalog, backed by a snappy trio. His patter and his piano playing are variable, but Mr. D'Arrietta makes a genial tour guide through Mr. Waits's wee-hours world (1:45). Huron Club at SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. o.e. (Rob Kendt)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:10). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Phoebe Hoban)

* 'ZOMBOID! (FILM/PERFORMANCe PROJECT #1)' O, the heresy of it! Richard Foreman has introduced film into the realm of exquisitely artificial, abstract theater in which he has specialized for four decades. As it turns out, juxtaposing two art forms allows Mr. Foreman to underscore in resonant new ways what he has been saying for years: reality is, well, relative. And he continues to work in a style guaranteed to infect your perceptions for hours after (1:15). Ontological-Hysteric Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 307-4100.(Van Gelder)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'BACK OF THE THROAT' An Arab-American playwright (Yussef El Guindi) addressing the harassment of Arab-Americans after 9/11? Interesting. But the play would have been even more interesting if the harassers were something other than cardboard characters out of the J. Edgar Hoover closet (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, closing Wednesday. (Genzlinger)

'THE RIGHT KIND OF PEOPLE' Satire sans teeth by Charles Grodin about internecine warfare within a Fifth Avenue co-op board. Directed by Chris Smith, the show has the embarrassed air of someone who has just been served a choice steak and misplaced his dentures (1:30). Primary Stages, at 59E59, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, closing Sunday. (Brantley)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'AQUAMARINE' (PG, 109 minutes) In this sweet comedy for the crowd that has outgrown ''The Little Mermaid,'' two likable pals (Emma Roberts and Joanna Levesque) try to help a mermaid (Sara Paxton) find love and learn how to use her feet properly. (Neil Genzlinger)

'BATTLE IN HEAVEN' (No rating, 94 minutes, in Spanish) An alternatingly mesmerizing and off-putting story about sex, class, God, soccer, an ugly man, a beautiful woman, a dead baby, the dirt below them and the wide sky above. The talented Mexican director Carlos Reygadas (''Japon'') strives to say something about his country, to tap into the spiritual and material desperation of its people, but doesn't seem especially committed to his material. (Manohla Dargis)

'BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE 2' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Martin Lawrence is back in fat-lady drag in this inconsequential sequel for undemanding moviegoers. Mr. Lawrence makes the most of the incongruity of a manly F.B.I. agent posing as a nanny in floral-print dresses, but the humor doesn't go much beyond oversize underwear and a tequila-drinking dog. (Anita Gates)

* 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' (R, 134 minutes) Annie Proulx's heartbreaking story of two ranch hands who fall in love while herding sheep in 1963 has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lee's landmark film. Heath Ledger (in a great performance worthy of Brando at his peak) and Jake Gyllenhaal bring them fully alive. (Stephen Holden)

* 'CACHE (HIDDEN)' (R, 121 minutes, in French) Michael Haneke, one of the most elegantly sadistic European directors working today, deposits his audience at the intersection of voyeurism and paranoia in this tense, politically tinged psychological thriller about vengeance and injustice. Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil are in top form as an affluent Parisian couple menaced by mysterious drawings and videotapes. (A. O. Scott)

* 'CURIOUS GEORGE' (G, 90 minutes) In a refreshing departure from the animal heroes of most recent children's movies, this Curious George doesn't rap, punch out bad guys or emit rapid-fire commentary on pop culture. George is all monkey -- a quality that will not only appeal to children, but also come as a great relief to parents who grew up with the classic stories by Margret and H. A. Rey. With top-drawer voice talent, including Will Ferrell, Drew Barrymore and Dick Van Dyke; original songs by Jack Johnson; and old-fashioned two-dimensional animation, ''Curious George'' is an unexpected delight. (Dana Stevens)

'DIRTY' (R, 97 minutes) Cuba Gooding Jr. steps over to the bad side in a nihilistic, profanity-packed melodrama of corrupt Los Angeles cops that wants to be ''Training Day'' with street cred. It misses by a mile. (Holden)

'FINAL DESTINATION 3' (R, 92 minutes) It's more dead teenagers and lunatic determinism in this grim third installment of the enjoyably preposterous ''Final Destination'' franchise. (Nathan Lee)

'FIREWALL' (PG-13, 100 minutes) A thrill-challenged thriller starring Harrison Ford and directed by Richard Loncraine that manages to entertain mildly only because it traffics in all the familiar action-movie cliches, giving filmgoers ample opportunity to test their action-movie I.Q.'s. (Dargis)

'FREEDOMLAND' (R, 113 minutes) This inept, lethally dull drama directed by Joe Roth and written by Richard Price, from his novel, involves a white child who may have gone missing in a New Jersey public housing complex, where the residents are all black. A loud Samuel L. Jackson and a miscast Julianne Moore star. (Dargis)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK.' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism. (Scott)

* 'HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE' (PG-13, 150 minutes) Childhood ends for the young wizard with the zigzag scar in the latest addition to the Potter saga, even as the director Mike Newell keeps its British eccentricity, fatalism and steady-on pluck irresistibly intact. (Dargis)

'HOME' (No rating, 91 minutes) In ''Home,'' the debut feature from the writer and director Matt Zoller Seitz, a party in a Brooklyn brownstone is peopled by familiar types: the sensitive music geek, the slutty ex-girlfriend, the pretentious European writer. As dreams are interpreted, hearts are bruised, and a loudmouth in a velour tracksuit gets undeservedly lucky, ''Home'' accumulates a blurry, on-the-fly atmosphere spiked with moments of unexpected sweetness. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'LITTLE FISH' (R, 114 minutes) In this tough, savvy Australian film, Cate Blanchett sinks deeply into the role of a 32-year-old recovering heroin addict trying to rebuild her life and fighting the temptation to relapse. (Holden)

* 'LOVE' (No rating, 93 minutes) Cool, mysterious and defiantly foreign, ''Love'' plays out on the immigrant fringes of an indifferent New York City. A Yugoslavian hit man, his German ex-wife and her cop boyfriend form a love triangle that propels a cosmopolitan cast into a violent game of cat and mouse. In these bleak, isolated neighborhoods, exquisitely shot by the Serbian cinematographer Vladimir Subotic, love and politics are inseparable, and the gleam of Manhattan is a million miles away. (Catsoulis)

* 'MATCH POINT' (R, 124 minutes) Woody Allen's best in years, and one of his best ever. Beneath the dazzling, sexy surface, this tale of social climbing in London (brilliantly acted by Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, Scarlett Johansson and Emily Mortimer) is ice cold and pitch black, which curiously enough makes it a superior diversion. (Scott)

'THE MATADOR' (R, 96 minutes) Pithy remarks put into the mouth of a star (Pierce Brosnan) playing against type impart a greasy sheen of sophistication to this weightless, amoral romp about a professional hit man facing a midlife crisis. (Holden)

'MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA' (PG-13, 144 minutes) Think ''As the Geisha Turns,'' with devious rivals, swoonworthy swains, a jaw-dropping dance number recycled from Madonna's Drowned World tour and much clinching, panting and scheming. Directed by Rob Marshall from the Arthur Golden book, and starring Ziyi Zhang, Gong Li and Michelle Yeoh. (Dargis)

* 'MUNICH' (R, 164 minutes) With his latest, Steven Spielberg forgoes the emotional bullying and pop thrills that come so easily to him to tell the story of a campaign of vengeance that Israel purportedly brought against Palestinian terrorists in the wake of the 1972 Olympics. An unsparingly brutal look at two peoples all but drowning in a sea of their own blood, ''Munich'' is by far the toughest film of the director's career, and the most anguished. (Dargis)

'NANNY McPHEE' (PG, 99 minutes) In the endearing but somewhat scatterbrained British film ''Nanny McPhee,'' Emma Thompson creates an indelible character reminiscent of the pre-Disney Mary Poppins working benign magic to shape up an unruly brood of children. (Holden)

'PINK PANTHER' (PG, 92 minutes) Steve Martin steps into the shoes of Peter Sellers in this intermittently witty revival of a vintage comedy franchise. Though finely honed, Mr. Martin's portrayal of the idiotic French police inspector Jacques Clouseau can't match Sellers's viscerally funny one. (Holden)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'ROVING MARS' (G, 40 minutes) Mars. IMAX. If you want to grow up to be an astronaut, prepare to bliss out. (Lee)

'RUNNING SCARED' (R, 122 minutes) The idea here is meta-movie to the max, a deconstructed modern action flick by way of the brothers Grimm, in which few live happily ever after, and most don't even make it to the next day. Too bad that the director Wayne Kramer proves blood simple. (Dargis)

* 'SOPHIE SCHOLL: THE FINAL DAYS' (No rating, 117 minutes, in German) The gripping true story of Sophie Scholl, an anti-Nazi student activist arrested and executed for distributing leaflets at Munich University, challenges you to gauge your own courage and strength of character should you find yourself in similar circumstances. (Holden)

'SORRY, HATERS' (No rating, 83 minutes) Shamelessly drawing on post-Sept. 11 anxieties, ''Sorry, Haters'' follows the increasingly irrational involvement of a New York cab driver (Abdellatif Kechiche), who is also a Syrian Muslim, and a disturbed fare (Robin Wright Penn). Yet despite the impressive commitment of the two leads, the movie unfolds with such utter looniness that the final, horrible moments are more likely to inspire laughter than shock. Apparently, the worst threat facing America today is not Islamic extremists but lonely young women with low self-esteem. (Catsoulis)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'TAMARA' (R, 98 minutes) Low in budget as well as ambition, this ''Carrie'' knockoff is a movie of few innovations but one genuine surprise: the inability of the title character, an evil sorceress, to manage in high heels. (Lee)

'TRANSAMERICA' (R, 103 minutes) Felicity Huffman's performance as a preoperative transsexual on a cross-country journey with her long-lost son is sensitive and convincing, and helps the movie rise above its indie road-picture cliches. (Scott)

* 'TRISTRAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY' (R, 91 minutes) Michael Winterbottom both confirms and refutes the assumption that Laurence Sterne's 18th-century masterpiece of digression could never be made into a movie by making a movie about the making of such a movie. Steve Coogan is wonderful as Tristram, Tristram's father and himself, though Rob Brydon steals more than a few of Mr. Coogan's scenes. (Scott)

'TSOTSI' (R, 94 minutes) Written and directed by Gavin Hood, from a novel by Athol Fugard, this South African film centers on a 19-year-old thug who steals a baby and finds redemption. You don't have to read crystal balls to see into Tsotsi's future; you just need to have watched a couple of Hollywood chestnuts. (Dargis)

'UNKNOWN WHITE MALE' (PG-13, 88 minutes) The British filmmaker Rupert Murray tells the bizarre story of his old friend Doug Bruce, who in 2003 walked into a Coney Island hospital claiming not to know who he was, thereupon becoming either a heart-wrenching casualty of a medical anomaly or the prime suspect in a mystery yet to be solved. (Dargis)

'UNDERWORLD: EVOLUTION' (R, 106 minutes) In this sequel to ''Underworld'' (2003), the writer and director Len Wiseman and the writer Danny McBride pick up the story of the vampire Selene (Kate Beckinsale) and the vampire/werewolf hybrid Michael (Scott Speedman) as they race to prevent the release of an imprisoned uber-werewolf. With leads who strain to manage one facial expression between them, and a cinematographer who shoots everything through the same steel-blue filter, ''Underworld: Evolution'' is little more than a monotonous barrage of computer-generated fur and fangs. (Catsoulis)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon, who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

* 'NEIL YOUNG: HEART OF GOLD' (PG, 103 minutes) Filled with country memories, bluesy regret and familiar and piercing sentiment, Jonathan Demme's concert film sounds like quintessential Neil Young, which, depending on your home catalog, will be either an enormous turn-on or turnoff. (Dargis)

Film Series

ANNA MAY WONG (Through April 16) Wong, the first Chinese-American movie star, would have turned 100 last year. (She died in 1961.) The Museum of the Moving Image's extensive seven-week retrospective of her work begins tomorrow with ''The Toll of the Sea'' (1922), a silent color feature based on ''Madama Butterfly''; and ''Piccadilly'' (1929), in which Wong plays a scullery maid who moves up to nightclub stages. Both films will be accompanied by live music. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

DOCUMENTARY FORTNIGHT EXPANDED (Through March 13) The Museum of Modern Art's exhibition of contemporary nonfiction films runs five weeks this year. It continues this weekend with ''The Other Side'''' (2005), Natalia Almada's portrait of a young Mexican man trying to sing his way out of poverty; and ''A Model for Matisse: The Story of the Vence Chapel'' (2005), about Henri Matisse's friendship and special project with a French Dominican nun. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

ISRAEL FILM FESTIVAL (Through Thursday) This 21st annual festival continues this weekend with films including Eyal Ilan's ''Comrade'' (2005), about an adolescent boy's relationship with his sister's Communist neighbor; and Thorold Dickinson's ''Hill 24 Doesn't Answer''(1955), the personal stories of four young Zionists guarding a strategic spot outside Jerusalem. Clearview Cinema, 62nd Street and Broadway, (877) 966-5566; $10. (Gates)

MAN IN THE DUNES: DISCOVERING HIROSHI TESHIGAHARA (Through March 19) BAMcinematek's tribute to Teshigahara (1927-2001), the artist, filmmaker and flower arranger, continues this weekend with ''Pitfall'' (1962), his first feature, about a mysterious killer and a small mining town. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

PRIX JEAN VIGO (Through Dec. 30) The Museum of Modern Art is honoring Jean Vigo (1905-34), the French filmmaker, with a series of 41 films from directors who have won the prize that bears his name. This weekend's films are ''Le Beau Serge'' (1958), Claude Chabrol's drama about a man who returns to his hometown to find a childhood friend in bad shape; and ''Le Bleu du Ciel'' (2000), Christian Dor's short about a teenage boy home from a psychiatric hospital. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

SOME KIND OF HORROR SHOW (Through March 30) BAMcinematek's annual festival of horror movies begins on Monday with Dario Argento's ''Four Flies on Grey Velvet'' (1971), about a rock musician with a stalker. Other films in the series will include John Landis's ''Innocent Blood'' (1992), the adventures of a modern-day vampire who bites only bad people; Nicholas Roeg's ''Witches'' (1990), about a coven's convention; and ''Twisted Nerve'' (1968), a splatter movie with a Bernard Hermann score. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

Pop
Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

BELLE AND SEBASTIAN/NEW PORNOGRAPHERS (Tonight) The deceptively gentle rock of the Scottish group Belle and Sebastian continues to find the exquisite balance between loll and lash. The New Pornographers are a revved-up Vancouver outfit whose smart power-pop grandeur builds with a sort of time-release tension, until Neko Case's voice cuts through like a skywriter. 8:30 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $30 (Sold out). (Laura Sinagra)

BLEEDING THROUGH, EVERY TIME I DIE (Thursday) Sidestepping the cookie-cutter emo punk stereotype, Bleeding Through plays speedy thrash metal. The Buffalo rockers Every Time I Die inject their version of hard-charging punk-metal with country swagger and gutter sleaze. 7:30 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $16.75 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sinagra)

MICHAEL BUBLE (Tomorrow) The crooner Michael Buble has Bobby Darin as a polestar and Frank Sinatra to crib from. He also has looks, and tips his hat to modern styles, even rap, in ways that assure 50-year-old fans that they're not 80-year-old fans. 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 632-4000; $49.50 to $104.50. (Sinagra)

CLOUD ROOM (Tomorrow) The new-wave-influenced naif rockers the Cloud Room garnered wild, though deeply underground, buzz when their best song, ''Hey Hey Now,'' written in the throes of the frontman's grave illness, was given lots of wish-you-wells but never broke into larger indie-pop consciousness. The indie-rock band Film School also plays. 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 798-0406; $8 in advance, $10 at the door. (Sinagra)

COMMON, FLOETRY (Sunday) The Chicago rapper Common has at times deserved the stigma attached to the label ''conscious rap'' -- preachiness and lackluster execution. On his latest material, though, he meets the challenge by working with the ''it'' producer Kanye West. The two women of Floetry mix the tough and the gentle amid a spirit of jazzy uplift. 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $38.50 to $40. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

EBONY ECUMENICAL ENSEMBLE (Tomorrow) This community choral group celebrates its 27th year with a repertory spanning what it calls the African-American religious experience. 7:30 p.m., Riverside Church, Riverside Drive at 122nd Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 870-6722; $15 to $35. (Sinagra)

DONALD FAGEN (Tonight and Tuesday) Steely Dan's jaded jazz-rocker tours in support of his first solo album since 1993, ''Morph the Cat'' (Reprise), on which, among other things, he focuses his recognizable leer on a hot airport security babe. Tonight at 8, North Fork Theater at Westbury Music Fair, 960 Brush Hollow Road, Westbury, N.Y., (516) 334-0800; $60 to $85. Tuesday at 8 p.m.., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070; $53.50 to $92. (Sinagra)

GOGOGO AIRHEART, JAI-ALAI SAVANT, SUBTITLE (Monday) The Mars Volta guitarist Omar Rodriguez-Lopez put together this tour to showcase bands on his record label, GSL, including the punky Gogogo Airheart, the reggae-punk Jai-Alai Savant and the Los Angeles rapper Subtitle. 8:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $10. (Sinagra)

DARYL HALL AND JOHN OATES (Tomorrow) The Philadelphia pop duo has always relied on the blue-eyed-soul crooner Daryl Hall's ability to emote within tight rhythmic constraints while John Oates harmonizes urgently above. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070; $40 to $93.50. (Sinagra)

HAMELL ON TRIAL (Tonight and tomorrow night) The songwriter Ed Hamell whips up intense ditties commenting on the hypocrisies of modern life. The cultural climate, rife with saccharine displays and religious and moral piety, leaves the composer of ''Songs for Parents Who Enjoy Drugs'' no shortage of inspiration. 8, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132; $12. (Sinagra)

BILLY JOEL (Tomorrow) The iconic piano man recently released a boxed set celebrating four decades of his music. From ''Just the Way You Are'' to ''Allentown,'' it's the trademark mix of real confidence and false bravado in both his playing and his delivery that keeps him compelling. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $54 to $89.50. (Sinagra)

THE KLEZMATICS: 20TH ANNIVERSARY (Sunday) The Klezmatics love the laughing, moaning melodies of traditional klezmer music. They also love jazz, rock and downtown improvisation, and they bring all those styles to bear on their music, which can be raucous, hypnotic, reverent and dizzying, sometimes all in one quick-changing piece. They carry klezmer's itinerant, idea-gathering spirit all the way into present-day New York City. 4 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824; $32.50 to $37.50. (Jon Pareles)

SERENA MANEESH (Monday) This Norwegian band takes a lighthearted approach to distorted, textured rock blare. Its alternately screeching and orchestral atmospherics are mismatched with vocal purr and squawk. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $13 in advance, 15 at the door. (Sinagra)

DAVE MASON (Monday) The singer-guitarist Dave Mason, maybe best known for his work with Traffic, is the distinctive voice behind songs like ''Feelin' Alright'' and ''We Just Disagree.'' 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $27.50 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sinagra)

MASTERS OF PERSIAN MUSIC (Sunday) Playing the music of Iran's Persian classical tradition and celebrating the heritage of Sufi poetry, this group features the vocalist Mohammad Reza Shajarian, with Hossein Alizadeh on the lute and Kayhan Kalhor on the spike fiddle. Shajarian's son Homayoun accompanies on the tombak drum and vocals. 7 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $30 to $50. (Sinagra)

MATISYAHU (Monday and Tuesday) Matisyahu's Hasidic dancehall blends the rabbinical and the Rastafarian, combining a kind of Deadhead playfulness with resolute moralism as he chants -- sometimes in English, sometimes in Yiddish, sometimes in Caribbean patois. He is promoting a new album, recorded with the producer Bill Laswell. 8 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-7740; $25.50 in advance, $27.50 at the door. (Sinagra)

MOGWAI (Monday) This majestic Glasgow outfit has mixed heavy rock intensity with flowing atmospheric beauty for a decade now. Its new material is some of its best. 7:30 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780 or ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $20. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

LE MYSTERE DES VOIX BULGARES (Tonight) Started 50 years ago with the goal of expanding the scope of Bulgarian folk music, Le Mystere des Voix Bulgares explores the possibilities of close harmonies, dissonance, unexpected rhythms and vocal tones that move from haunting to jarringly pointed. This performance, falling on Bulgarian Independence Day, is the group's first in the city in more than a decade. 7:30 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $23 to $28. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

NADA SURF, ROGUE WAVE (Wednesday) The Brooklyn alt-rockers Nada Surf tumbled into obscurity after a mid-90's MTV hit, then re-emerged in 2002 with the lovingly fashioned ''Let Go'' (Barsuk), which squints nostalgically at imagined childhood bliss through a snowy pane. Subsequent albums have continued in this style. Rogue Wave is a meditative band that plays the kind of wishing-well rock that, when done right, adds gravitas to your flakiest concerns. 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111; $20. (Sinagra)

OF MONTREAL (Tonight) Part of the tail end of the mid-90's heyday of the Athens, Ga., indie-rock collective Elephant 6, the band Of Montreal has outlived lots of its other acts and continues to make fanciful melodic pop. 8, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $14. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

AMY RIGBY (Tonight) This singer-songwriter ponders romance and decline with biting wit. She gave Nashville a try, but she's back home in New York, where her brand of real-life feistiness has always been a better fit. 7 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; $20. (Sinagra)

THE ROGERS SISTERS, CELEBRATION (Thursday) The Brooklyn power trio the Rogers Sisters have plied their perky new-wave craft during the recent spate of 80's revivalism in Williamsburg, though they seem to take themselves less seriously than most. Celebration's noisy rock is a vehicle for the vocalist Katrina Ford's guttural acrobatics. 8 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sinagra)

THE STROKES, EAGLES OF DEATH METAL (Tonight and tomorrow night) Six years ago, with its exaggerated Tom Petty-like jitters and rich hipster slumming, the Strokes convinced jaded late-1990's clubbers that rock was back. The Eagles of Death Metal is the side project of the Queens of the Stone Age frontman Josh Homme, who indulges some of his funkier impulses. 6:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 564-4882; $35. (Sinagra)

THE WEDDING PRESENT, SALLY CREWE AND THE SUDDEN MOVES (Monday and Wednesday) After spending the late 90's in relative domestic bliss and putting out records with the band Cinerama, David Gedge has returned to his previous band the Wedding Present, and to the dirty-strummed electric bitterness that made it so beloved. Sally Crewe, a spunky Briton, unpins her lyrical wit with elemental guitar rock punch. Monday at 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703; $tk. (Sold out.) Wednesday at 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $16. (Sinagra)

WOLF EYES, PIG DESTROYER (Tomorrow) Wolf Eyes is a noise band from Montreal; Pig Destroyer plays grindcore metal. 11:30 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132; $12 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

THE WOOD BROTHERS (Tuesday) The Wood Brothers are Oliver and Chris Wood, musical siblings reared in the Northwest, whose divergent paths led Oliver to blues-rock bands in Atlanta and Chris to New York, where he ended up in Medeski, Martin and Wood. Together they make roots rock. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; $15. (Sinagra)

Cabaret
Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

* 'THE BROADWAY MUSICALS OF 1930' (Monday) The sixth-season opening concert of Scott Siegel's ebullient and informative Broadway by the Year series will feature Nancy Anderson, Celia Keenan-Bolger, Marc Kudisch, Deven May, Emily Skinner, Mary Testa, Jennifer Simard and Michael Winther, among others. 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824; $40 and $45. (Stephen Holden)

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Holden)

KITTY CARLISLE HART (Tonight and tomorrow night) New York's grande dame of the performing arts is ageless, regal, entertaining and, at 95, can still sing. 8:30, Feinstein's at the Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, (212) 339-4095; $60, with a $40 minimum. (Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Tomorrow) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 7 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

BARRETT/WALDEN QUINTET (Tonight) The trumpeter Darren Barrett and the saxophonist Myron Walden are forward-thinking hard-bop heirs with rhythm on their minds; they have strong support in the pianist Aaron Parks, the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Kendrick Scott. 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15.(Nate Chinen)

BAUHAUS QUARTET (Thursday) Kevin Norton is a probing drummer, vibraphonist and composer, although not always in that order; his Bauhaus Quartet, with Dave Ballou on trumpet, Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone and John Lindberg on bass, exemplifies the taut intellectualism of jazz's far-left wing. 8 and 10 p.m., Jimmy's Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

TAYLOR HO BYNUM SEXTET (Monday) Mr. Bynum is a strong cornetist and serious-minded composer with experimental tendencies; polyphony is the chief emphasis in his sextet, which includes Matt Bauder on tenor saxophone and clarinets, Mary Halvorson and Evan O'Reilly on guitars, Tomas Fujiwara on drums and Jessica Pavone on viola and bass. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $8. (Chinen)

MUSIC OF DONALD BYRD AND PEPPER ADAMS (Tuesday through March 12) The trumpeter Donald Byrd and the baritone saxophonist Pepper Adams made a passel of good hard-bop albums together from the late 1950's to the early 60's. This tribute features Jeremy Pelt on trumpet and Gary Smulyan on baritone, with a combo that includes the veteran drummer Jimmy Cobb. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

JAMES CARTER ORGAN TRIO (Wednesday through March 12) Mr. Carter, the irrepressibly charismatic saxophonist, leads a sturdy and occasionally surprising soul-jazz unit with the Hammond B-3 organist Gerard Gibbs and the drummer Leonard King. 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $27.50 and $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CYRUS CHESTNUT QUINTET (Through Sunday) Mr. Chestnut is a stalwart, straight-ahead pianist, especially when it comes to gospel and the blues; here, as on his strong new album, ''Genuine Chestnut'' (Telarc), the guitarist Mark Whitfield is a guest. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

DOMINICK FARINACCI (Tonight) A promising young trumpeter and recent Juilliard graduate, Mr. Farinacci leads a quartet consisting of Dan Kaufman, pianist; Marco Panascia, bassist; and Quincy Davis, drummer. 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, ext. 344, www.rmanyc.org; $15. (Chinen)

4 GENERATIONS OF MILES (Through Sunday) The rapid permutation of Miles Davis's working bands makes it theoretically possible for four former sidemen to claim connection to four separate phases of his career; the musicians in question are the drummer Jimmy Cobb, the tenor saxophonist George Coleman, the bassist Buster Williams and the guitarist Mike Stern. 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $32.50 and $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JERRY GONZALEZ AND THE FORT APACHE BAND (Tonight) The Afro-Caribbean jazz master Jerry Gonzalez and his band set their improvisations to driving Latin rhythms. 8, Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824; $32.50 and $37.50. (Laura Sinagra)

* FRED HERSCH (Through Sunday) Mr. Hersch's solo piano recitals are transcendent affairs, as evidenced most recently by an excellent album called ''Fred Hersch in Amsterdam: Live at the Bimhuis'' (Palmetto). He is the first solo pianist ever to headline a weeklong Village Vanguard engagement. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

* ANDREW HILL QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) ''Time Lines,'' Mr. Hill's new Blue Note recording, updates his visionary work of the 1960's with a patiently exploratory brand of post-bop. This engagement features the same superb ensemble as on the album: Mr. Hill on piano, Charles Tolliver on trumpet, Greg Tardy on tenor saxophone and clarinets, John Hebert on bass and Eric McPherson on drums. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

I LOVE A PIANO (Thursday) The latest installation of Jack Kleinsinger's Highlights in Jazz series features three good pianists: Barbara Carroll and Eric Reed, each with a trio, and Junior Mance, playing solo. 8 p.m., Tribeca Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 220-1460; $30; $27.50 for students. (Chinen)

AHMAD JAMAL TRIO (Tuesday and Wednesday) A touchstone of jazz piano since the 50's, Mr. Jamal still has his broad dynamic range and signature touch; his highly sympathetic rhythm section consists of the bassist James Cammack and the drummer Idris Muhammad. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $35 at tables and a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JOE LOVANO QUARTET (Wednesday through March 11) Mr. Lovano has become one of the stalwart saxophonists in modern jazz, equally inspired by John Coltrane's harmonic inquiry, Ornette Coleman's off-kilter lyricism and Ben Webster's heart-rending croon. This band, his newest, includes James Weidman on piano, Esperanza Spalding on bass and Francisco Mela on drums. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

EIVIND OPSVIK'S OVERSEAS (Monday) Mr. Opsvik is a Norwegian bassist and composer who balances avant-gardism against poplike lyricism, as he demonstrates here in a band with Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone, Jacob Sacks on piano and Kenny Wollesen on drums. 9:30 p.m., Mundial, 505 East 12th Street, East Village, (212) 982-1282, mundialnyc.com; no cover. (Chinen)

CHRIS POTTER'S UNDERGROUND (Tuesday through March 12) The saxophonist Chris Potter has an improvisational approach that's intellectual and athletic in equal measure; his band Underground dives headlong into edgy fusion, with Adam Rogers on guitar, Craig Taborn on Fender Rhodes piano and Nate Smith on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20 and $25.(Chinen)

WALLACE RONEY SEXTET (Tuesday through March 12) On his recent album ''Mystikal'' (High Note), Mr. Roney advanced a variety of Afrocentric futurism inherited and adapted from his trumpet mentor, Miles Davis. He explores similar territory in an ensemble with his wife, Geri Allen, on piano; his brother, Antoine Roney, on tenor and soprano saxophones; and the unrelated rhythm section of Val Jeanty on turntables, Clarence Seay on bass and Eric Allen on drums. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

PONCHO SANCHEZ (Through Sunday) Mr. Sanchez, a high-spirited conga player, has been one of the leading figures in Latin jazz for more than 20 years, in large part because of this effervescent working band. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $35 at tables with a $5 minimum or $20 at the bar and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JENNY SCHEINMAN QUARTET (Tuesday) Ms. Scheinman is that rare jazz violinist who embraces her instrument's folksier side without making concessions to genre; she performs with the pianist Art Hirahara, the bassist Danton Boller and the drummer Mark Ferber. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

TONE COLLECTOR (Wednesday) This experimental acoustic threesome, made up of the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby, the bassist Eivind Opsvik and the drummer Jeff Davis, released a bristling debut last year on Norway's Jazzaway label; they're joined here by the trombonists Ben Gerstein (at 8 p.m.) and Brian Allen (at 10 p.m.). 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

DAVID WEISS QUINTET (Tuesday through March 11) Mr. Weiss, a literate and industrious trumpeter-composer-arranger, leads a post-bop outfit featuring the powerful tenor saxophonist J. D. Allen. 11 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $10, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

Classical
Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'AIDA' (Tomorrow and Sunday) The Amato Opera's reputation is that it conveys the spirit and love of Italian opera, though the full impact is impossible to achieve in a 102-seat theater with a cast that changes at every performance. And against the odds, all the principals at a recent performance of ''Aida'' managed to make it through to the end, demonstrating a true love of the piece if not always of the pitch. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 2:30 p.m., 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200; $30; $25 for students and 65+. (Anne Midgette)

'CYRANO DE BERGERAC' (Wednesday) Alfano's amiable, ambling version of ''Cyrano'' continues its Met run, and Placido Domingo is expected to return, after vocal problems, to the title role. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6200; $26 to $175. (Bernard Holland)

'DARKLING' (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Thursday) In an adventurous move, American Opera Projects is presenting a brave and sensitive, if at times frustrating, multimedia work. With a score by Stefan Weisman, ''Darkling'' is an ''operatic fantasia on themes of emotional fragmentation,'' in the words of the director Michael Comlish, who conceived the idea of adapting for the stage Anna Rabinowitz's book-length poem about a restless Polish couple who marry hastily before the invasion of the Nazis. 8 p.m., East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200; $30 to $45. (Anthony Tommasini)

'LA FORZA DEL DESTINO' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) It's tempting to say that ''Forza'' has the most numbingly ludicrous libretto of any Verdi opera, but with such stiff competition, who can say? Giancarlo del Monaco's drab staging, first seen in 1996 and hidden away in storage since then, offers little help, but the Met does have a solid cast, with Deborah Voigt, Salvatore Licitra and Mark Delavan. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $150 to $220 remaining tomorrow; $26 to $175 on Tuesday. (Allan Kozinn)

* 'MAZEPPA' (Monday) The Metropolitan Opera has never before staged Tchaikovsky's ''Mazeppa,'' although the Kirov Opera brought it to the stage here in 1998. The Kirov has a strong role in this brand-new staging: it's a co-production with the Met, conducted by the Met's principal guest conductor and Kirov head, Valery Gergiev, with Olga Guryakova, Larissa Diadkova, Nikolai Putilin and Paata Burchuladze in leading roles. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $35 to $250. (Midgette)

'THE MOST HAPPY FELLA' (Tomorrow, Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) For the 50th anniversary of Frank Loesser's wonderful musical, the New York City Opera opens its spring season with its production, by Philip Wm. McKinley. Though the company has had mixed success with presenting musicals, this production looks intriguing. The compelling actor Paul Sorvino takes the title role of Tony, an aging immigrant vineyard owner who courts a struggling young waitress through the mail. Loesser's rich and tuneful score is more sophisticated than many an opera. George Manahan conducts. Tomorrow at 1:30 and 8:30 p.m., and Sunday at 1:30 p.m. (previews); Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $45 to $120. (Tommasini)

'ROMEO ET JULIETTE' (Tomorrow and Thursday) The big news from the Met's new production of this Gounod opera is the French coloratura soprano Natalie Dessay. Singing with uncanny agility and lyrical elegance, she touchingly embodies the tragically impulsive young Juliette. The tenor Ramon Vargas, though a stiff actor, delivers a vocally impassioned Romeo. Bertrand de Billy conducts a refined account of Gounod's most sophisticated score. (For the final performance on Thursday, Maureen O'Flynn replaces Ms. Dessay.) Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out tomorrow, $26 to $175 on Thursday. (Tommasini)

'LA TRAVIATA' (Tonight) Jose Luis Duval as Alfredo joins Angela Gheorghiu in this successful revival at the Met. 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out. (Holland)

'TREEMONISHA' (Thursday) The enterprising and top-rate Collegiate Chorale, with Robert Bass conducting, presents a semistaged performance of Scott Joplin's 1911 opera, ''Treemonisha,'' conceived by Roger Rees. To appreciate this humane and musically beguiling work, you have to look past what contemporary audiences might see as stereotyped depictions of former slaves during Reconstruction. Still, the story is told from the perspectives of the newly freed slaves, who turn to a modest and educated young girl, Treemonisha, as their leader. And Joplin's wistful music is subtle and affecting. Anita Johnson sings the title role. 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500: $25 to $60. (Tommasini)

Classical Music

ANNE AZEMA, JOEL COHEN and SHIRA KAMMEN (Sunday) The lutenist Joel Cohen has assembled many an inventive program for his Boston Camerata, and he brings his latest -- ''Chanson du Desert: The Heroic Deeds of Guillaume d'Orange'' -- to the Cloisters for two performances. The performance, to be sung by Anne Azema and Shira Kemmen, centers on works about the eighth- and ninth-century warrior who fought for Charlemagne and is the subject of four medieval epic poems. 1 and 3 p.m., Fort Tryon Park, (212) 650-2290; $35. (Kozinn)

* MAYA BEISER (Thursday) Formerly the cellist of the Bang on a Can All-Stars, Ms. Beiser has spread her wings into an even more eclectic and distinctive solo career. Her recital at Zankel Hall presents four world premieres, including a new work by Eve Beglarian, with accompanying video by the acclaimed artist Shirin Neshat. The other new works are by Michael Gordon, Joby Talbot and Brett Dean. 7:30 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 and $35. (Midgette)

BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Monday) It's no doubt just a coincidence, but on Monday, when the Metropolitan Opera presents its premiere production of Tchaikovsky's ''Mazeppa'' with Valery Gergiev, James Levine, the Met's music director, will be at Carnegie Hall conducting this orchestra in Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. If you choose to go with Beethoven and Mr. Levine, you will also hear Schoenberg's breakthrough work, the Chamber Symphony No. 1. And the roster of vocal soloists for the Beethoven, topped by the soprano Christine Brewer, looks enticing. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $52 to $175. (Tommasini)

IAN BOSTRIDGE (Wednesday) This elegant, brainy British tenor is joined by a handful of colleagues -- including the countertenor Bejun Mehta and the tenor Nathan Gunn -- for an installment in his Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall. His subject this time is Britten, who will be explored by way of his ''Winter Words,'' as well as all five Canticles. 7:30. Zankel Hall, at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $40 to $48. (Kozinn)

PAUL GALBRAITH (Tomorrow) By using an eight-string guitar, played as if it were a cello -- held vertically, and resting on a peg connected to a resonating box -- Mr. Galbraith has been able expand the volume, range and harmonic possibilities available to him. He is also a thoughtful player, and his program includes his own arrangements of Bach's Cello Suite No. 4, Ravel's ''Mother Goose'' Suite -- a stretch for the guitar, but his solutions should be fascinating -- and works by Rameau, Martin and Mozart. 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $40. (Kozinn)

* HESPERION XXI AND LA CAPELLA REIAL DE CATALUNYA (Tomorrow) As part of an extended visit with his various ensembles that includes performances all over Manhattan, Jordi Savall leads his remarkable Hesperion XXI ensemble and his vocal group in works by Spanish composers, among them, Gaspar Sanz, Luis Milan, Santiago de Murcia and Matheo Flecha. 8 p.m., Church of St. Paul the Apostle, Columbus Avenue at 60th Street, (212) 854-7799; $40. (Kozinn)

JERUSALEM SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) Leon Botstein has carved out a career as a conductor on a combination of erudition and crack fund-raising skills. This weekend he comes to the New York area on tour with one of his orchestras in an uncharacteristically mainstream program that includes Copland's ''Appalachian Spring'' and Prokofiev's Fifth. (The orchestra comes to Carnegie Hall on March 12.) Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Tilles Center at the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100; $48 to $88. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Bergen Performing Arts Center, Englewood, N.J., (201) 816-8160; $10 to $50. Thursday at 8 p.m., Community Theater, Morristown, N.J., (973) 539-8008; $40 to $47. (Midgette)

'LA LEGENDE D'EER' (Tonight) For the 1978 opening of the Pompidou Center in Paris, the composer Iannis Xenakis created this multimedia piece, which combined music, architecture, light imagery and texts and played for three months. Last year Mode Records released a DVD and CD of the work, and tonight, in the second of two performances, it will be recreated live. 8, Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 979-1027; $12. (Tommasini)

MUSICIANS FROM MARLBORO (Tonight and tomorrow) Every season this renowned festival in Vermont sends rosters of performers, both veteran artists and young talents, on tour across the country. Two different groups are performing in New York this weekend. Tonight the pianist Gilbert Kalish is joined by several impressive wind players in works by Nielsen, Schubert, Carter and Beethoven. Tomorrow the Peoples' Symphony Concerts series presents a roster of string players and the pianist Jeremy Denk in works by John Harbison, Ravel and Schubert. Tonight at 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 570-3949; $40. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680; $9. (Tommasini)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow and Tuesday) Ludovic Morlot will make his Philharmonic conducting debut with music by Elliott Carter and Schumann, as well as the Brahms Violin Concerto with Frank Peter Zimmermann. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Tuesday night at 7:30, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $26 to $94. (Holland)

RUSSIAN NATIONAL ORCHESTRA (Sunday, Monday and Wednesday) Three concerts of Russian music played by Russians. The conductor Vladimir Jurowski brings Yefim Bronfman to play Tchaikovsky's First Piano Concerto on Sunday, and continues with some Stravinsky and much more Tchaikovsky. Sunday at 3 p.m., Monday and Wednesday at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $35 to $69. (Holland)

DORA SERES (Tuesday) The organization Young Concert Artists often presents New York recital debuts by its latest audition winners, but this week's recital by Dora Seres, a young Hungarian flutist, definitely does not appear to be more of the same -- at least on paper -- because of striking programming that includes works by Toru Takemitsu and Lowell Liebermann, Carl Reinecke and Paul Taffanel, Sigfrid Karg-Elert and Carl Maria von Weber. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $25 and $35. (Midgette)

MIHAELA URSULEASA (Sunday) This young Romanian-born, Vienna-trained pianist performs a recital of Shostakovich, Scriabin, Beethoven and Brahms. 5 p.m., Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700; $20.(Jeremy Eichler)

* VIENNA PHILHARMONIC (Tonight through Sunday) Riccardo Muti leads one of the world's premium orchestras in three programs that, conservative as they are, at least put a toe into the last century. Tonight, Hindemith's ''Nobilissima Visione'' Suite and the Schubert Ninth. Tomorrow, Schubert's Fourth and ''Rosamunde'' Overture, Mozart's Sinfonia Concertante and Strauss's ''Death in Transfiguration'' should let listeners revel in the orchestra's uncommonly rich string sound. And on Sunday, Mr. Muti draws on what must seem like spicy exoticism to the Viennese, with Bartok's ''Two Pictures,'' Ravel's ''Rapsodie Espagnole'' and Falla's ''Three-Cornered Hat,'' all preceded by music from the orchestra's home turf, Mozart's ''Haffner'' Symphony. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $58 to $195. (Kozinn)

OXANA YABLONSKAYA (Tonight) This forceful Russian-born pianist plays a recital of Chopin, Beethoven, Rachmaninoff and Weinberg, presented by the Chopin Society of New York. 7:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $35. (Eichler)

YING QUARTET (Thursday) The four Ying siblings have been playing together well since long before marketers went to town with the 5 Browns. Here they survey recent jazz-tinged chamber music by the New York composer Patrick Zimmerli. 7:30 p.m., the Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $21. (Eichler)

Dance
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

AMDAT (Tonight and tomorrow night) With the aid of dance and video, Andrea Haenggi's ''Escalator'' transforms lobbies and moving stairways into four magical theaters, each evoking a mood of its own. 7 and 8:30, World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505 or www.worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Jack Anderson)

ASUNDER (Tonight and tomorrow night) Three choreographers -- Jen Abrams, Clarinda Mac Low and Tara O'Con -- set people's inner and outer lives clashing. (Through March 18.) 8, Wow Cafe Theater, 59-61 East Fourth Street, fourth floor, East Village, (212) 696-8904; $12; students, $10. (Anderson)

IVY BALDWIN DANCE AND KATE WEARE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Baldwin presents ''Gone Missing,'' a dance-theater piece featuring weary travelers lost in a winter forest. Ms. Weare explores bodily impulses and longing in ''Wet Road.'' 7:30, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtw.org; $12 and $20. (Erika Kinetz)

BELLYDANCE SUPERSTARS (Tonight) The only professional touring group of its kind celebrates various tribal, Egyptian and cabaret styles of belly dancing. 8, Colden Center, Queens College, Kissena Boulevard and the Long Island Expressway, Flushing, Queens, (800) 594-8499, www.bellydancesuperstars.tickets.musictoday.com; $35 and $45. (Anderson)

DANCE AT DIXON PLACE: MOVING MEN (Tuesday) Arthur Aviles has chosen Jeffrey Peterson, Baraka de Soleil and David Kieffer for this series of choreography by men, with Afua Hall holding down the fort for the opposite sex. 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212) 219-0736 or www.dixonplace.org; $12 or T.D.F.; students and 65+, $10. (Jennifer Dunning)

DANCEBRAZIL (Tonight through Sunday) Two programs explore the rich cultures of Bahia, Brazil, in choreography that merges Afro-Brazilian dance, live music and the martial arts form of capoeira, including a new dance by the company director Jelon Vieira to music by Tuze de Abreu. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, www.Joyce.org; $42. (Dunning)

DRASTIC ACTION (Tonight through Sunday) Aviva Geismar and her company will present new and recent dances that explore group dynamics and communication. They feature a woman in a rocking chair, and a mythical creature that is part bird, part snake and part masquerade performer. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30, Sunday at 2 p.m., West End Theater, 263 West 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 337-9565; $10 and $12. (Dunning)

DONNA SCRO GENTILE/FREESPACE DANCE (Thursday) Ms. Gentile, who has danced with Sean Curran and Murray Louis, will present choreography set to music by Daniel Bernard Roumain, Glen Fittin, Tigger Benford and Peter Jones, performed by the resident company at Montclair State University. (Through March 11.) 8:30 p.m., St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $15. (Dunning)

REBECCA KELLY BALLET (Thursday through March 11) The company celebrates its 25th anniversary with performances featuring two guest artists: Jared Matthews of American Ballet Theater and Duncan Cooper of Dance Theater of Harlem. 8 p.m., John Jay Theater, 899 10th Avenue, at 58th Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200 or http://www.ticketcentral.com. $40. (Anderson)

KIDS CAFE FESTIVAL: A CELEBRATION OF FLAMENCO MUSIC AND DANCE (Tomorrow and Sunday) This weekend of performances by children and teenagers from all over the city will include Doug Varone's ''Democracy.'' 3 p.m., Kumble Theater, Long Island University Brooklyn Campus, Flatbush and DeKalb Avenues, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 522-4696 or www.dancewave.org; $20; $12 for children 12 and younger. (Dunning)

ASHLEIGH LEITE (Thursday through March 11) ''Autopsy,'' an emotionally charged evening of dance, light and sound, follows the interior journeys of five women. 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-9907; $15. (Anderson)

SUSAN MARSHALL & COMPANY (Wednesday through March 18) A skilled choreographic storyteller offers ''Cloudless,'' a collection of danced short stories, some explosive, others quietly intimate. Wednesdays through Saturdays at 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtw.org; $15 and $25. (Anderson)

MOMIX (Tomorrow) Moses Pendleton's ''Lunar Sea'' creates its own fantastic world with the aid of dance, props, lights and shadows. 7:30 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722; $47. (Anderson)

NEW YORK THEATER BALLET (Today through Sunday) ''The Alice in Wonderland Follies'' romps through Lewis Carroll's classic children's story with the aid of dance forms ranging from classical ballet to Irish step dancing and African Juba. Today at 10 a.m., noon and 7:30 p.m.; tomorrow and Sunday at 11 a.m. and 1 and 3:30 p.m. Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100; $30, ages 12 and younger, $25. (Anderson)

92nd STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL (Wednesday through March 12) An annual event concludes with the Francesca Harper Project in ''Modo Fusion,'' a multimedia work that Ms. Harper, a dancer, singer and choreographer, conceived in collaboration with Brian Reeder, a former dancer with American Ballet Theater. Wednesday, Thursday and March 11 at 8 p.m.; March 12 at 2 and 7 p.m. Ailey Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500 or www.92Y.org/harknessfestival; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

PAPPA TARAHUMARA (Tonight) This performance group makes its New York debut with ''Island,'' a tragic, multidisciplinary adaptation of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's story ''A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings.'' 7:30 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 715-1258 or www.japansociety.org; $30; members, $25. (Kinetz)

* LAURA PAWEL DANCE (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Pawel and her dancers and musicians, some of them grizzled, longtime presences on the city's modern-dance scene, are content to make and perform small, plain dances about the everyday, often seasoned with wry reminiscences that reveal the everyday as not so ordinary. And their contentment is infectious. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 5 p.m. Dance Forum, 20 East 17th Street, Manhattan, (212) 212-633-7202; $15.. (Dunning)

CIE. MARTINE PISANI (Tonight through Sunday) From Paris, this modern-dance company will present ''sans,'' which merges comedy and minimalism in the presences and movement styles of three company members. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 7 and 10 p.m.; Sunday at 8 p.m. Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 242-0800 or www.joyce.org; $20. (Dunning)

* REBECCA RICE DANCE (Tomorrow) Ms. Rice comes from an august modern-dance family that includes Carolyn Brown and Marion Rice. In this New York debut, she will present pieces set to music by John Harbison and Elena Ruehr, as well as Bach played live by the cellist Emmanuel Feldman. The Boston reviewer Marcia B. Siegel described her work as drawing from ''the theatricality of Denishawn dance, the extroverted skills of ballet and the physical investment of modern dance.'' Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (978) 852-3863; $20 and $35; $15 for students. (Dunning)

PEGGY SPINA TAP (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Spina celebrates 25 years of performing and choreographing tap in a program of dances set to music performed live by the Joel Forrester Quartet. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 6 and 8:30 p.m., Spina Loft, 115 Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 674-8885; $20. (Dunning)

* PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The company's annual City Center season continues with repertory programs all week. Tonight's offers the New York premiere of ''Banquet of Vultures'' and also includes a revival of ''Oh, You Kid!'' (last seen here in 2001). ''Spring Rounds,'' the other New York premiere, is scheduled for tomorrow night and Tuesday. Other notable revivals for the week will be ''Arabesque'' on Sunday, last seen in 2001; ''Dust'' on Tuesday (1997); ''Brandenburgs'' on Wednesday (1997); and ''Speaking in Tongues'' on Thursday (2002). Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m.; tomorrow at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; and Tuesday at 7 p.m. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212 or www.nycitycenter.org; $15 to $80. (John Rockwell)

Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

* AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SURFACE ATTRACTION: PAINTED FURNITURE FROM THE COLLECTION,' through March 26. The remarkable images, abstract patterns and floral motifs that flutter across the 30 or so tables, chairs, cabinets and blanket chests in this beautiful, convention-stretching show confirm that from the late 1600's to the late 1800's, quite a bit of American painting talent and ambition was channeled into the decoration of everyday wood objects. The combination of imagination and utility, of economic means and lush effects, defines the human desire for beauty as hard-wired. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 14. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and cast-off clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to, and settlement in, the United States, from early times to the present, in a garrulous, very personal way. One particularly intense work, based on the belief that Abubakari II, ruler of Mali, crossed the Atlantic nearly 200 years before Columbus to discover the Americas, links the past with the present and Africa with the beloved Columbus of Ms. Robinson's childhood. Her works do not lend themselves to easy deciphering, but her magic with materials and her daring compositional imagination draw you in. Her art rings true. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn (718) 638-5000. (Grace Glueck)

* COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHION IN COLORS,' through March 26. Drawn from the collection of the Kyoto Costume Institute in Japan, this sumptuous show arranges 68 often lavish Western gowns and ensembles according to the colors of the spectrum and reinforces their progress with a posh, color-coordinated installation design. For an experience of color as color, it is hard to beat, but it also says a great deal about clothing, visual perception and beauty. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400.(Smith)

* SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'DAVID SMITH: A CENTENNIAL,' through May 14. David Smith is best known for his worst work, bulky sculptures of the ''important'' kind that museums and banks like to buy. Much (though not all) of that material has been excised from this survey in favor of smaller, earlier, nonmonumental pieces that the curator, Carmen Gimenez, presents with plenty of air and light. The result is exemplary as a David Smith experience, an American Modernism experience and a Guggenheim Museum experience. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Holland Cotter)

JEWISH MUSEUM: 'SARAH BERNHARDT: THE ART OF HIGH DRAMA,' through April 2. This exhibition is devoted to the flamboyant 19th-century actress whose name was once invoked by mothers as a warning to melodramatic daughters: ''Who do you think you are, Sarah Bernhardt?'' Its almost overstuffed roster of items includes original Felix Nadar photos of Bernhardt at 20 and the human skull presented to her by Victor Hugo, the costumes she wore as Cleopatra and Joan of Arc, her own accomplished sculptures and relics of lovers and American tours. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200. (Edward Rothstein)

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART OF MEDICINE IN ANCIENT EGYPT,' through May 7. Egypt was no picnic 5,000 years ago. The average life span was about 40 years. Wild animals were ever-present. Childbirth was perilous. Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness were shots in the dark. Doctors were priests. Medicine was a blend of science, religion and art. The 65 or so objects in this beautiful show functioned as all three. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Cotter)

* MET: ROBERT RAUSCHENBERG: 'COMBINES,' through April 2. Big and handsome almost to a fault. There's something weird about seeing once joyfully rude and over-the-top contraptions from the 1950's and 60's lined up like choirboys in church, with their ties askew and shirttails out. But even enshrined, the combines still manage to seem incredibly fresh and odd, almost otherworldly. I thought of a medieval treasury -- all the rich colors and lights and intricate details. The most beautiful tend to be the early ones: large but delicate, with a subtle, fugitive emotional pitch. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'EDVARD MUNCH: THE MODERN LIFE OF THE SOUL,' through May 8. This affecting, full-scale retrospective is the first survey of this Norwegian painter in an American museum in almost 30 years. Its more than 130 oils and works on paper cover Munch's entire career, from 1880 to 1944. It also includes a large selection of prints -- many ingeniously adapted from his oils -- that played an important role in his art. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Glueck)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ON SITE: NEW ARCHITECTURE IN SPAIN,' through May 1. Since the early 1970's, when Spain began to awaken from the isolation of a four-decade dictatorship, Spanish architects have produced designs of unusual depth, often with a firm connection to the land, a sense of humility and a way of conveying continuity with the past while embracing the present. Packed with pretty images and elegant models, this exhibition lacks the scholarly depth you might have hoped for on such a mesmerizing subject. (See above.)(Nicolai Ouroussoff)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: JOHN SZARKOWSKI: 'PHOTOGRAPHS,' through May 15. A kind of homecoming, this beautiful show surveys the pictures taken by Mr. Szarkowski before and after his influential 29-year term at the helm of the Modern's photography department. The best show him combining the styles of the photographers he has long admired with his native ground -- the architecture and landscape of the upper Midwest. (See above.) (Smith)

P.S. 1: JESSICA STOCKHOLDER: 'OF STANDING FLOAT ROOTS IN THIN AIR,' through May 1. A soaring, cannily designed installation -- made of airborne plastic bins, electric lights, orange extension cords and an old armchair topping a wooden tower -- by a sculptor known for orchestrating productive collisions of formalism and consumerism. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. (Ken Johnson)

P.S. 1: RICKY SWALLOW: 'METICULOUS,' through March 20. Extraordinarily realistic and symbolically portentous sculptures carved from wood by Australia's representative to last summer's Venice Biennale, in which three of the five works on view here were included. (See above.) (Johnson)

* STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'FREQUENCY,' through March 12. Despite some marked unevenness, this display of new and recently emerged talent confirms the current vitality of black art, contemporary art and midsize New York museums. Names to look out for include Kalup Linzy, Leslie Hewitt, Jeff Sonhouse, Shinique Smith, Demetrius Oliver, Michael Paul Britto, Nick Cave, Mickalene Thomas and Michael Queenland, but don't stop there. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Smith)

Galleries: 57th Street

STEPHEN GREENE: 'PLEASURE DOME' In abstract paintings from late in his career, Greene (1917-1999) created shimmering mindscapes in which fiery reds and oranges and electric blues and greens glow through areas of muddy browns and grays. Made with a touch that is sometimes brusque and sometimes exquisitely sensitive, the paintings combine sensuous immediacy and visionary romanticism. Jason McCoy, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 319-1996, through March 11. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

NATALIE FRANK: 'UNVEILING' Still in graduate school (at Columbia) but already the subject of considerable media attention, Ms. Frank paints expansive, Eric Fischl-like pictures in which nude bodies and lavish floral arrangements combine to create anxiously erotic daydreams. Briggs Robinson, 527 West 29th Street, (212) 560-9075, through March 11. (Johnson)

AMY GRANAT: SCRATCH FILMS/STARS WAY OUT (FOR O.K.) A beautiful installation using three looped projections of manipulated black-and-white film that create an animated but slightly sinister environment of shifting geometric motifs: parallel lines, blocks and spots. It might have been made at almost any time during the last 40 years, but the percussive soundtrack provides a modicum of newness. More is needed. Oliver Kamm/5BE, 621 West 27th Street, (212) 255-0979, through March 11. (Smith)

JERRY KEARNS: 'FOREVER MORE' For many years Mr. Kearns has been making illustrative paintings combining Pop-Surrealist style, leftist politics and anti-consumerist social commentary, with humor and obviousness often battling to a draw. His new paintings feature muscle-bound Jesus figures, hysterical hermaphrodites, creepy children, magical birds, fast-food products and heavenly blue skies. Michael Steinberg, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 924-5770, through March 11. (Johnson)

JAMES RIECK: 'FLOWER GIRLS' Working from old bridal catalogues, Mr. Rieck paints silvery cropped images of angelic girls wearing white dresses, shoes and gloves. Lyons Wier, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 242-6220, through March 11. (Johnson)

MIMI SMITH: 'DRAWINGS FROM THE 60'S TO THE PRESENT' Known for witty feminist sculptures based on women's clothing, Ms. Smith here presents drawings sampling her five-decade career, including a large, three-dimensional paper house covered with fine writing protesting environmental pollution and recent sets of finely made images of shoes and underwear representing stages in a woman's life from infancy to old age. Kustera Tilton, 520 West 21st Street, (212) 989-0082, through March 4. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

* 'DO YOU THINK I'M DISCO' There's a big story to be told about disco culture of the 1970's, which had roots in rhythm and blues, African-American church music, 1960's drug culture, gay liberation and all manner of anti-establishment politics. This modest group show touches on all of these elements, however glancingly and unsystematically, by considering the trickle-down effect of discomania on some new art today. Longwood Art Gallery@Hostos, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street, Mott Haven, the Bronx, (718) 518-6728, through March 18. (Cotter)

* 'THE DOWNTOWN SHOW: THE NEW YORK ART SCENE, 1974-1984' The real down-and-dirty downtown art scene, when the East Village bloomed, punk and new wave rock assailed the ears, graffiti spread like kudzu and heroin, along with extreme style, raged, is the subject of this wild and woolly show. It's a humongous time warp of more than 450 paintings, sculptures, drawings, photographs, videos, posters, ephemera and things in between by artists, writers, performers, musicians and maestros of mixed media, from a photograph of the transvestite Candy Darling as she posed on her deathbed to a small, painted sculpture made of elephant dung by David Hammons. With so many clashing ideologies, points of view and attitudes toward art-making, this no-holds-barred hodgepodge generates the buzz and stridency of, say, Canal Street on payday. New York University, Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, (212) 998-6780; and Fales Library, 70 Washington Square South, (212) 988-2596, Greenwich Village; through April 1. (Glueck)

* ANYA GALLACCIO: 'ONE ART' The viscerally poetic single work occupying Sculpture Center's spacious main gallery is a 50-foot weeping cherry tree that was cut up and reassembled in the gallery, where it is held in place by steel cables and bolts. Sculpture Center, 44-19 Purves Street, at Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through April 3. (Johnson)

THE STUDIO VISIT The studio visit, a time-honored ritual that everyone in the art world has both endured and learned from, is taken to its limit in Exit Art's latest exhibition marathon. Each of the 160 mostly short videos represents one artist's idea of, play on, or substitute for, a studio visit. It is a show that often cries out for a fast-forward button, but there are some notable gems -- for example, by Joyce Pensato, Cynthia von Buhler, Ida Applebroog, Bruce Pearson, Lance Wakeling, Taylor McKimens, Paul Wirhun, Elisabeth Kley, Christy Gast and Kim Jones. Exit Art, 475 10th Avenue, at 36th Street, Manhattan, (212) 966-7745, through March 25. (Smith)

'ZOO STORY' A clay gorilla by Daisy Youngblood, a bronze she-wolf by Kiki Smith, a flock of concrete sheep by Francoise-Xavier Lalanne and works about animals by more than 20 other artists, including John Baldessari, Katharina Fritsch, Ross Bleckner and Rebecca Horn, turn the first floor of this sleek, three-story private museum into a diverting menagerie. Fisher Landau Center for Art, 38-27 30th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 937-0727, through June 12. (Johnson)

Last Chance

CAITLIN ATKINSON: 'CHAPTERS' Comical and touching staged photographs portray the artist herself in moments of anxiety and disappointment: contemplating a dish of lasagna she burned; apparently abandoned in an empty grocery store parking lot; and starting to disrobe at a nude beach. Foley, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 244-9081, closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

JOE BRADLEY: 'KURGAN WAVES' Large, blocky men assembled from flimsy, brusquely painted canvases seem to have convened for a mysterious tribal ritual in Mr. Bradley's sharp sendup of Minimalist orthodoxy. Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, between Hester and Canal Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631, closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

CHUCK CLOSE, ANNIE LEIBOVITZ, VIK MUNIZ: 'INVENTIVE FASHION PHOTOGRAPHS' Photographs of the silhouettes of fashion models, shaped in bent wire and based on fashion photographs by Vik Muniz; daguerreotype pictures of a naked Kate Moss; and fashion spreads by Annie Leibovitz based on ''Alice in Wonderland.'' Danziger, 521 West 26th Street, (212) 629-6778, closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

* METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: ANTONELLO DA MESSINA, This small, focused show presents the work of a Sicilian master (about 1430-1479) regarded as the greatest painter to emerge from southern Italy in the 15th century. His signature work, shown here, is ''The Virgin Annunciate'' (about 1475-76), depicting Mary as a young Sicilian girl at the moment of the Annunciation, when she is told by the angel Gabriel that she will bear Jesus. The genius of the work lies in the way a traditional icon has been imbued with the life force of a flesh-and-blood human being. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, closes Sunday. (Glueck)

ROBERT S. NEUMAN: 'FIFTY YEARS' With good-humored generosity and a skillful, sensuous touch, Mr. Neuman has painted his way through several different genres over the course of his five-decade career, including Abstract Expressionism, geometric formalism, funky allegorical narrative and painterly landscapes that mourn the losses of the American Indians. Allan Stone, 113 East 90th Street, (212) 987-4997, closes Monday.. (Johnson)

* P.S. 1: 'PETER HUJAR,' When Peter Hujar died in 1987, he was a figure of acute interest to a small group of fans, and unknown to practically everyone else. His photographs of desiccated corpses in Sicilian catacombs and studio portraits of New York's downtown demimonde were a gorgeous shock, and their cocktail of Nadar, Weegee and Vogue shaped the work of many younger artists. This surveyish sampling includes several of his recurrent themes: portraits of people and animals, landscapes, still lifes and erotica. Sensuality and mortality are the binders throughout, inseparable. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, closes Monday. (Cotter)

* MATT SAUNDERS The work of this young Berlin-based American artist falls midway between Robert Ryman and Andy Warhol in its acute awareness of painting's physical constitution and its love of movie stars and glamour. The slick, illustrational painting style is a big problem, but the use of light, space, film projectors and the moving image (in a hand-drawn animation) has considerable potential. Harris Lieberman, 89 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 206-1290, closes tomorrow. (Smith)

MACRAE SEMANS This New York debut introduces a promising bricoleur whose sculptures are carefully worked-out vortexes of abject and elegant and found and made that make rich asides to the histories of art and design but need to distinguish themselves from the work of several other artists mining the same vein. Taxter & Spengemann, 504 West 22nd Street, (212) 924-0212, closes tomorrow. (Smith)

'SITE 92' The second exhibition in this nonprofit gallery's impressive big, new space presents site-specific works by more than 25 artists. Highlights include a colorful column of hovering butterflies made of candy wrappers by Luisa Caldwell; fanciful architectural elements painted on the wall by Amy Yoes; people imitating the sounds of pigeons in an audio-video work by Beth Krebs; and, by Virginia Poundstone, a tableau representing a satellite that has crashed in the jungle. Smack Mellon, 92 Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 834-8761, closes Sunday. (Johnson)

'SPACE BOOMERANG' This darkly theatrical show includes sculptures like Cubist bathtubs by Mike Bouchet; a bicycle with endlessly spinning wheels by Jonathan Monk; a Minimalist wall sculpture dented on purpose by Bruno Peinado; a wall that intermittently vibrates violently by Loris Greaud; a magical light and smoke sculpture by Ann Veronica Janssens; a video documenting Gianni Motti's walk through a particle accelerator; a motorcycle immersed in the wax of burning candles by Mark Handforth; and a long, sleek wall of black plastic-shaded lights by Lang/Baumann. Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, near Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 925-2035, closes Thursday. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- Petra van Noort performs in Susan Marshall's ''Cloudless,'' which will be presented at Dance Theater Workshop as Ms. Marshall's troupe celebrates its 20th anniversary, Page 26.
POP -- Natalie Stewart, left, and Marsha Ambrosius, the British neo-soul duo Floetry, who mix the tough and the gentle amid jazzy uplift, share a bill with the Chicago rapper Common at the Nokia Theater in Times Square, Page 24.
ART -- ''The Teachings,'' pen and ink and found objects on paper, is part of an exhibition of work by Aminah Brenda Lynn Robinson on view at the Brooklyn Museum, Page 26. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)
(Photo [Copyright]) by Aminah Brenda Lynn Robinson/licensed by VAGA, New York, N.Y. Courtesy the Columbus Museum of Art)
 (Photo by [Copyright] Vicki Berliner, Retna UK/Retna)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%); WRITERS (63%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



28 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; 36 HOURS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: SoMa, San Francisco

BYLINE: By JOSH SENS

 BODY:
IF you visit the SoMa district of San Francisco, you can eat a five-course meal while you sit on an oversize bed and watch a performance artist stretch the definition of theater. You can drop in on a penguin feeding or paddle a kayak in search of floating baseballs in the bay. This stretch of the city south of Market Street, long known for its alternative art and music scene, has matured into a mix of trendy restaurants, gritty bars, swank hotels and warehouses reworked to stage live music. It has a bustling waterfront, a major league baseball stadium and engrossing museums. SoMa's character has been shaped by recent cycles of boom and bust. 
The district lost some of its edge during the frenzy of the late 1990's, as soaring rents shut down galleries and nightclubs and stock-inflated Internet start-ups moved in. When the high-tech bubble burst, SoMa's landscape shifted once again. Lofts languished vacant, and the well-to-do young people on Razor scooters vanished overnight. Lately, though, new life has sprouted. There is some scruffiness, and you can still duck into a club too cool to post its name above the door. But for all its youthful spirit, SoMa feels more grown-up -- not stodgy, but adult -- than ever, with family attractions by day and energy that lingers after dark. JOSH SENS

Friday

5 p.m.
1 -- Sake and Sculpture

A split-level space with a split personality, Varnish Fine Art (77 Natoma Street, 415-222-6131) is a wine bar in the body of an art gallery. On Friday afternoons, a post-work crowd gathers, inspecting art installations while sipping pinot noir. Music pulses from the sound system, and house wines pour for $5 a glass. Put away a few sake cocktails (also $5, at happy hour) and you might wind up ordering a steel-and-blown-glass sculpture for $6,200. A few doors down, John Colins (90 Natoma Street, 415-543-2277) is another popular spot to wash away the workweek. The regulars here are younger than at Varnish. And louder. But the surfing films screened on the wall are silent. A bouncer guards the door, but the industrial-chic atmosphere is far from daunting.

8 p.m.
2 -- Dinner at Ame

After years of running Terra, an acclaimed restaurant in the Napa Valley, the husband-and-wife team of Hiro Sone and Lissa Doumani have set up a second shop, on the ground floor of the haute and happening St. Regis Hotel. Their new restaurant, Ame (pronounced Ah-MAY, 689 Mission Street, 415-284-4040), serves a selection of superb sashimi, crudo, ceviche and carpaccio, as well as entrees (thick grilled pork chop with Dijon verjus, $32) that smack of California by way of France. The dining room is elegant but relaxing, with plush seats and lighted silk sculptures that float overhead like underwater creatures. But the most coveted seats are at the sashimi bar. Request whatever sashimi they're serving, or the sake-marinated black cod with shrimp dumplings in shiso broth ($29.50), which deserves its standing as Mr. Sone's signature dish.

Saturday

9 a.m.
3 -- Pick Your Paddles

Grab coffee and house-made pastries at Town's End Restaurant & Bakery (2 Townsend Street, 415-512-0749), then stroll along the waterfront to Pier 38, where City Kayak (415-357-1010) launches its boats. The company's guided Bay Bridge tour ($59 a person) will take you on the water and underneath the bridge, San Francisco's other lovely but less famous span. Enjoy great views of the city before paddling out to McCovey Cove behind SBC Park (soon to be renamed AT&T Park), home field of the San Francisco Giants. You might recognize the cove as the splash-landing point for many a Barry Bonds home run. (It's named for a Giants slugger from an earlier day, Willie McCovey.) In April, when the baseball season gets under way, you can rent a kayak on your own (from $15 an hour, two-hour minimum) and join other boaters in a mad dash for a floating souvenir. Kayak lessons are included with the price of a guided tour. Tour schedules can vary, depending on the tides.

12:30 p.m.
4 -- A New Museum

Museumgoers familiar with the SF MoMa (the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art) have a new South of Market acronym to memorize: MoAD (685 Mission Street, 415-358-7200; admission is $8), for the Museum of the African Diaspora, which opened in December. It explores the cultural contributions made by people of African descent as they have spread around the world, through migrations forced and voluntary. Interactive exhibits touch on a range of topics from the influence of the slave trade on Brazilian cuisine to the African roots of Charlie Parker's jazz.

3:30 p.m.
5 -- Lunch of the Penguins

If emperor penguins, as portrayed in ''March of the Penguins,'' don't exactly have it easy, African penguins, as displayed at the Steinhart Aquarium (875 Howard Street, 415-321-8000; $7 admission), don't exactly have it rough. The penguins, whose natural home is off the coast of southern Africa, are fed twice daily (at 11 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.) by aquarium staff members, who dole out herring while educating visitors. The Steinhart's permanent home is across town in Golden Gate Park, but that site is being completely rebuilt. So the aquarium will remain in its temporary SoMa space until 2008.

5:30 p.m.
6 -- Cocktails at CoCo500

Classics like the mojito and the caipirinha join concoctions like the lemongrass bloody mary (lemongrass-infused vodka, tomato juice and sriracha chili sauce; $9) on the cocktail menu of CoCo500, a new SoMa restaurant (500 Brannan Street, 415-543-2222). It's almost always humming, but it's the house special drink, the CoCo500 cocktail (Thai basil, kaffir lime vodka, fresh lime; $10) that really generates a buzz.

7:30 p.m.
7 -- Dinner in Bed

Though it feels like a satire of ''Sex and the City,'' Supperclub San Francisco (657 Harrison Street, 415-348-0900) is actually a branch of a restaurant born in Amsterdam. ''Let's go to bed,'' the host says, whisking you into an all-white room with oversize beds laid out for 175. The prix-fixe menu ($70 on Saturdays) ranges widely, from baby back ribs to four-cheese ravioli with chives and lemon verbena oil. It can take up to three and a half hours to go through five courses. But there's no nodding off. Not with the eclectic artistic presentations, which can be music, film or a fashion show, to entertain you. Imagine a man clad in a diaper, climbing down a stairway while sucking on a pacifier. Those in the mood for a more traditional meal should try Town Hall (342 Howard Street, 415-908-3900), where the well-executed dishes draw on American regional influences and nobody eats lying down. Main courses, in the $20's, change often.

10 p.m.
8 -- Saturday Night Live

In keeping with the recent history of SoMa, Mezzanine (444 Jessie Street, 415-625-8880; www.mezzaninesf.com; admission $15 to $25), a cool live-music venue, occupies a warehouse once inhabited by a dot-com. It caters to all tastes: hip-hop, soul, world beat, jazz. Order a martini at one of the bars and feel as if you're in your own music video. Fatboy Slim, Martin Luther and the National have all played here. But don't expect anything too mainstream. Hootie & the Blowfish would be barred at the door.

Sunday

10 a.m.
9 -- Young Bliss

Bliss San Francisco (181 Third Street, on the fourth floor of the W Hotel, 415-281-0990) casts itself as the young person's spa, soothing but free of self-seriousness. It features rock and jazz, not New Age whale music. Grab a brownie as you await your treatment. The Hangover Herbie ($215) includes a revitalizing face mask and an ''antimigraine'' massage. There's really nothing different about the Manly-Cure ($23) treatment. It's just a more macho way of saying you had your nails done.

12 p.m.
10 -- Dim Summing

Dim sum fiends may debate where to get the best buns in San Francisco. But few would dispute the atmospheric appeal of Yank Sing (1 Rincon Center, 101 Spear Street, 415-957-9300). The restaurant stands in what was once a post office, an Art Deco building with colorful murals in the lobby. Order an imperial walnut salad ($7.30) and steamed pork buns ($3.65) and sip jasmine tea. If the spa didn't relax you, the indoor water shower, which spills gently from the ceiling and splashes in the atrium outside the restaurant, will.

Fish for Baseballs Or for a Good Time
 The South of Market district of San Francisco is about a half hour from both San Francisco International Airport and Oakland International Airport. Bay Area Rapid Transit, or BART, runs from both airports to stops in downtown San Francisco a short walking distance from SoMa. Taxis from either airport cost $30 to $50. 
 St. Regis Hotel, San Francisco (125 Third Street, 415-284-4000) is a luxurious hotel that takes many of its aesthetic cues from the nearby San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. The hotel is home to Ame, one of the city's best new restaurants. The St. Regis's cool, contemporary accommodations include 260 guest rooms, starting at $379.
 Beautiful bay views, a luxury spa and a penthouse-level yoga studio are some of the attractions of Hotel Vitale (8 Mission Street, 415-278-3700), on the revitalized Embarcadero waterfront. It has 199 rooms, $279 to $399.
 Marriott Courtyard San Francisco Downtown (299 Second Street, 415-947-0700) features comfortable accommodations, combined with a convenient location just blocks from the ballpark and museums. Rooms start at $149.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)Map of San Francisco highlighting the SoMa area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); MUSIC (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); BASEBALL (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); SURFING (60%); STARTUPS (53%); INTERNET & WWW (53%) Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%)

PERSON: Josh Sens

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif); California

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



29 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Says It Will Pay, but Patients Say 'No Thanks'

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Medicare said yes, but many patients and their doctors ended up saying no. 
 To test whether federal health spending actually helps patients, Medicare has been requiring more and more of the nation's retirees to participate in clinical trials to measure the effectiveness of a growing range of treatments, before agreeing to pay for them. Now, the outcome of the first and most extensive Medicare trial yet indicates that the public, armed with the data developed, may make surprisingly conservative decisions.
It was a study of a risky but popular operation for patients with advanced emphysema, and after its results were announced in May 2003, Medicare agreed to pay for the procedure. 
 Some health economists were alarmed. The operation and months of rehabilitation can cost more than $50,000 and, they predicted, tens of thousands of patients could end up having the procedure. It could cost Medicare as much as $15 billion. 
 What happened instead was a complete surprise. After seeing the clinical trial's results -- no lengthening of life for most patients and a nearly 10 percent mortality risk from the operation itself -- many patients and the doctors who refer them to surgeons seemed to lose their enthusiasm. 
 From January 2004 through last September, only 458 Medicare patients filed claims for the surgery, at a total cost to the government of less than $10.5 million.
 ''You could have knocked me over with a feather,'' said Dr. Scott Ramsey, an internist and health care economist at the University of Washington who had been predicting financial doom.
 Many health economists and medical experts praised the study's impact, saying that replacing anecdotal evidence with scientific data saved money and the lives of patients who were unlikely to benefit from the surgery. And they say such scrutiny is necessary as Medicare, a program covering more than 42 million Americans and with expenditures approaching $327 billion a year, tries to come to grips with the spiraling cost of health care. 
 ''It's unusual for the system to work so well,'' said Dr. Steve E. Phurrough, director of Medicare's coverage and analysis group. ''It was an example of, yes, we can use our influence.''
 The main critics seem to be lung surgeons, who say that the study's findings are being interpreted in an overly negative light and that too many seriously ill people stopped seeking treatment.
 But Medicare officials say the results have given them the public and political support they need to continue the clinical trial approach with other diseases. Although the agency is forbidden by law to consider cost when deciding whether to pay for treatments, it can consider how well a treatment works. 
 So Medicare is now enrolling patients in other trials or registries, examining the effectiveness of a wide range of expensive and popular treatments and procedures -- new cancer drugs, defibrillators, PET scans to detect early Alzheimer's disease and. possibly, home oxygen therapy for emphysema. These are often costly treatments -- Medicare paid $1.2 billion for defibrillators in 2002, for example, according to Medtronic, which makes the devices.
 No matter what those studies end up showing, the use of clinical trials can make them controversial even at the outset. The very nature of a clinical trial means that only some patients actually receive the new treatment, while others, for comparison's sake, do not. Paying for some patients but not others to receive a new treatment is a stark departure for Medicare. 
 When Medicare first headed down that path with its lung surgery trial, it got an earful from patients, surgeons and even members of Congress who said it was unethical and just plain wrong to deny some patients a lifesaving operation simply to glean data.
 What has most dismayed many lung surgeons, though, is the aftermath of the emphysema study, which Medicare sponsored with the federal National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. 
 Medicare officials say that they did not anticipate taking such a bold step as a clinical trial. Instead, their effort began in sort of a stunned panic. In the 1990's, Medicare discovered that surgeons were performing the procedure, called lung volume reduction surgery, on thousands of very sick emphysema patients and that Medicare was paying for it under established cost codes. 
 The operation involves cutting out sections of diseased lungs to give healthier tissue room to expand.
 Reviewing data for 1996, the agency found that it had paid for 3,000 of the operations at 27 medical centers.
 The procedure's popularity was growing, as surgeons told of patients who had been tethered to oxygen tanks and so ill that they had to stop and rest every few steps. After the operation, according to the reports, many improved so much that they could walk steadily, even uphill, and breathe on their own. 
 Patients were posting testimonials on Web sites, hospitals were advertising, and doctors were referring their advanced emphysema patients to surgeons. 
 Some doctors, like Dr. Joel Cooper, a lung surgeon, published reports of his patients that were so promising that his medical center, Washington University, could hardly keep up with the demand. And Dr. Cooper, now at the University of Pennsylvania, still stands by the operation, saying in a recent interview that lung volume reduction surgery patients ''are among the most grateful patients we have.''
 But back in 1997, noting the surgery's risks and the opinion of some doctors that it did not work at all, Medicare officials proposed a marked change in policy. There would be no more payments except for patients who enrolled in an agency-sponsored clinical trial. 
 Many surgeons and patients balked. Dr. Cooper refused to participate in the trial, saying he could not in good conscience randomly assign patients to the control group who would receive no treatment. Congress held hearings and listened to complaints that desperately ill patients would suffer. Representative Jim Ramstad, a Minnesota Republican, predicted the study would ''negatively affect the lives of thousands of older Americans who suffer from the disease.'' 
 Patients and their families, along with reporters, called Medicare, an agency spokesman recalled, asking ''Why aren't you paying for this lifesaving miracle?''
 In May 2003, four years after the study began, the results based on 1,281 patients were published. For two years, the study followed both patients who had the operation and those who did not to see how they fared. Over all, patients in the study lived no longer, whether or not they had the surgery -- although a certain subset of surgery patients did outlive similarly ill patients who did not have the operation. Others who had the surgery found it easier to walk or breathe. But still another subset receiving the procedure did not get any benefit at all. 
 Surgeons, focusing on the prolonged life for some patients who had the operation and the improved symptoms for others, were elated. In 2004, Medicare began paying for the operation in all advanced emphysema patients except those whose condition resembled that of patients in the study who received no benefits from the surgery. 
 ''We presented the results and literally we thought, 'This is great,' '' said Dr. Keith Naunheim, a lung surgeon at St. Louis University who participated in the trial. He had been doing at least one operation a week before the trial began, and after the study he expected a surge of requests to operate. 
 ''I went back to my office and sat by the phone and waited for it to ring,'' Dr. Naunheim said. But the phone was silent. Since that day in 2004, he's done, ''three or four,'' operations, he says, ''almost nothing.''
 But pulmonologists and other doctors who refer patients for surgery had a very different view of the study's findings.
 ''It's difficult to sign someone up for a 50-thousand-plus operation with an 8 percent upfront mortality risk,'' said Dr. Mark Dransfield, a pulmonologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. And Dr. David Mannino, a pulmonologist at the University of Kentucky, says that after he began presenting his patients with the Medicare study, they invariably declined the operation. 
 ''We talk about risks and benefits and they say, 'Let me try pulmonary rehabilitation instead,' '' Dr. Mannino said. 
 But Dr. Naunheim says too many doctors are being overly negative. In late January he presented the trial's five-year results, showing that the benefits from the surgery that had been seen at two years were sustained. Some patients who had the operation lived an average of 5.9 years, compared with an average survival of 4.5 years for similar patients who did not have it.
 ''We've got to get the message out to the pulmonologists,'' Dr. Naunheim said. ''I don't think they fully realize the impact of their lack of referrals. They don't realize that patients are dying because of that.''
 Still, when health economists look at the situation -- a surgery that had been feared as a budget-buster now barely showing up on the Medicare ledger -- they see vindication of the agency's new policy.
 ''To me, it's a real success,'' Dr. Ramsey said. The lung procedure ''went from this trajectory of growth, just rocketing up in use, to basically nothing,'' he said. ''I have a hard time thinking of when a clinical trial did that.''
 Dr. Fernando Martinez, a pulmonologist at the University of Michigan, says he understands the surgeons' disappointment. 
 ''Surgeons think a little bit differently than pulmonary people do,'' he said. ''Lives are in their hands, and they have to feel extremely positive. That's what you want your surgeon to do.''
 But for doctors like him, he said, the results speak for themselves. The operation, ''was not as good a procedure as we originally thought,'' Dr. Martinez said. And if Medicare had not insisted on a clinical trial, he added, ''we would have gone on thinking it was a great thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Keith Naunheim is doing fewer operations on emphysema patients. (Photo by Tim Parker for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Dr. Steve E. Phurrough, director of Medicare's coverage group, said the decline in a lung operation was a sign of the system working well. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); CANCER (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CANCER DRUGS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%) Emphysema; Surgery and Surgeons; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Research; Tests and Testing; Emphysema; Emphysema

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%) St Louis University

PERSON: Steve E (Dr) Phurrough; Keith (Dr) Naunheim; Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



30 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Senate Votes to Renew Broad Antiterrorism Law
The Senate overwhelmingly passed legislation renewing the sweeping antiterror law known as the USA Patriot Act, ending a months-long impasse on Capitol Hill and virtually guaranteeing that the measure will go to President Bush to be signed. The vote was 89 to 10. PAGE A14

Senate Rejects Ethics Office 

Senators backed away from expansive changes in lobbying law, overwhelmingly rejecting a proposal to create an independent office to investigate ethics abuses in Congress. PAGE A19

Art for Art's Sake
The 2006 Whitney Biennial is long on collaboration: several shows under one roof, including works by Urs Fischer, below. It is also very much an insider's affair. A review by Michael Kimmelman. WEEKEND, PAGE E31

Shiites Reclaim a Mosque
The mosque was built by Shiites, but given to Sunni worshipers under Saddam Hussein. Last week the Shiite militia arrived, and now it's named for a Shiite saint. PAGE A12

Wal-Mart, Grocery Giant
Wal-Mart has become the largest grocer in the nation and with that size, it has growing leverage in the way products on its shelves are developed. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Fighting Malnutrition Early
A World Bank report says the problem of malnutrition for 100 million children must be addressed before the age 2. PAGE A6

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); ETHICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (85%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LOBBYING (74%); MALNUTRITION (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); CHILDREN (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



31 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Bird Flu Won't Wait

BYLINE: By Kendall Hoyt. 
Kendall Hoyt is an assistant professor at Dartmouth Medical School and an associate with the New England Center for Emergency Preparedness.

DATELINE: Hanover, N.H. 

 BODY:
AS avian flu makes its way from Asia across Europe, the United States has yet to meet the challenges that this potential epidemic and other biological threats pose to our health and security. One challenge in particular needs attention: the shortfall in countermeasures like vaccines. 
 Most biological threats are likely to be unannounced and unfamiliar (like the outbreak of SARS in 2002 and 2003), so rapid drug development is critical. With few exceptions, the United States lacks the ability to develop, manufacture and administer vaccines in response to specific threats as they arise. That ability is within reach, but only if we invest wisely. 
Congress recently appropriated $1.8 billion to develop and purchase a pandemic flu vaccine. Any vaccine we develop now, however, may not work against a human-to-human transmissible strain that could emerge later. The problem is that the government has been focused on a prognostic model of developing and stockpiling countermeasures aimed at specific pathogens. This ''one bug, one drug'' strategy makes sense for a small number of biological threats that are highly communicable, lethal or easily weaponized, like smallpox and anthrax. 
 It is less sensible, however, for many other threats, for two reasons. First, the number of pathogenic threats far outstrips our drug development resources. Second, epidemiological forecasting and intelligence about such threats are unreliable: witness the vaccination campaigns against botulinum toxin in World War II, swine flu in 1976, anthrax in the 1991 gulf war and smallpox before the Iraq war, which all addressed threats that failed to materialize. Creating stockpiles of vaccines for high-consequence pathogens is important. Beyond those, however, it's wiser to build a system that will allow us to react quickly to rapidly evolving or unexpected biological threats. 
 Agencies like the National Institutes of Health and Department of Defense have spent a lot of money on building early-stage research and development programs and laboratories for combating biological threats. But there have been no commensurate investments in late-stage research and surge manufacturing. Without that, the value of early-stage research is greatly diminished.
 These capabilities can and should be developed, starting now. It now takes 8 to 10 years on average to develop one vaccine. As the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency has been urging, it may be technologically feasible to build a ''bug to drug'' program that yields a countermeasure within months, rather than years, of identifying a novel pathogen. 
 A ''bug to drug'' program would accelerate the translation of early-stage research into new countermeasures. Such a program would make broad investments in technologies to speed development (for example, microarray diagnostics, computerized model immune systems, DNA vaccines and animal models for diseases of particular concern). In some cases, it could build a library of clinical-grade vaccine seed strains to allow the rapid production of vaccine. In other cases, it could establish manufacturing protocols, as well as emergency administration and distribution procedures. 
 Besides investing in rapid response mechanisms, such a program would also support research projects. These projects could include the development of production methods to reduce the time and cost of vaccine manufacturing, ways to boost an immune response after a single dose and thermostability innovations and ''no needle'' vaccinations to make it easier to distribute vaccines in an emergency. 
 Unless we act now, we will have to rely on primitive and probably ineffective methods, like quarantine, when a new pathogen arrives. Such methods will take an unnecessary and unprecedented human, economic and political toll on the United States and on all nations that do not prepare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (94%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (92%); VACCINES (92%); ANTHRAX (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); BACTERIA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (90%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GENE BASED DRUG DISCOVERY (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); SMALLPOX (89%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ANIMALS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); ANTIVIRALS (77%); BIOLOGICS MFG (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); DNA (73%); SARS (73%); GENE BASED DRUGS (72%); DESERT STORM (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (67%); WORLD WAR II (64%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) Influenza; Vaccination and Immunization; Avian Influenza; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Influenza

PERSON: Kendall Hoyt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



32 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: The Gospel vs. H.R. 4437

 BODY:
It has been a long time since this country heard a call to organized lawbreaking on this big a scale. Cardinal Roger Mahony of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, the nation's largest, urged parishioners on Ash Wednesday to devote the 40 days of Lent to fasting, prayer and reflection on the need for humane reform of immigration laws. If current efforts in Congress make it a felony to shield or offer support to illegal immigrants, Cardinal Mahony said, he will instruct his priests -- and faithful lay Catholics -- to defy the law. 
 The cardinal's focus of concern is H.R. 4437, a bill sponsored by James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin and Peter King of New York. This grab bag legislation, which was recently passed by the House, would expand the definition of ''alien smuggling'' in a way that could theoretically include working in a soup kitchen, driving a friend to a bus stop or caring for a neighbor's baby. Similar language appears in legislation being considered by the Senate this week.
The enormous influx of illegal immigrants and the lack of a coherent federal policy to handle it have prompted a jumble of responses by state and local governments, stirred the passions of the nativist fringe, and reinforced anxieties since 9/11. Cardinal Mahony's defiance adds a moral dimension to what has largely been a debate about politics and economics. ''As his disciples, we are called to attend to the last, littlest, lowest and least in society and in the church,'' he said.
 The cardinal is right to argue that the government has no place criminalizing the charitable impulses of private institutions like his, whose mission is to help people with no questions asked. The Los Angeles Archdiocese, like other religious organizations across the country, runs a vast network of social service programs offering food and emergency shelter, child care, aid to immigrants and refugees, counseling services, and computer and job training. Through Catholic Charities and local parishes, the church is frequently the help of last resort for illegal immigrants in need. It should not be made an arm of the immigration police as well.
 Cardinal Mahony's declaration of solidarity with illegal immigrants, for whom Lent is every day, is a startling call to civil disobedience, as courageous as it is timely. We hope it forestalls the day when works of mercy become a federal crime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); IMMIGRATION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); EASTER SEASON (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REFUGEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CHARITIES (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (71%); FELONIES (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (62%) Immigration and Refugees; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Illegal Immigrants

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (56%) Roger (Cardinal) Mahony

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



33 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Its Wish, Their Command; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: When Wal-Mart Shops for Groceries, It Gets Whatever It Wants

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
Last year, Coca-Cola was preparing to introduce a diet soda, to be called Coke Zero. But executives at Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer, thought they had a better idea. 
 They wanted a drink that contained Splenda, the artificial sweetener that had been selling extremely well at Wal-Mart, especially among women shoppers. Coke Zero was sweetened with aspartame, an older, low-calorie sweetener.
So Coke executives went back to the drawing board and in May introduced a drink called Diet Coke With Splenda. The company used the name Coke Zero on another new drink a month later.
 Coke's new game plan underscores Wal-Mart's growing power in the grocery business. With nearly 2,000 supercenters in the United States and plans for 280 more this year, Wal-Mart is the country's largest food retailer, according to Retail Forward, a research firm in Columbus, Ohio. Data from food and beverage companies indicates that Wal-Mart represents 14 percent to 18 percent of all food and beverage sales. 
 As Wal-Mart hunts for ways to take costs out of its grocery business and offer popular items that can help bring customers into its stores, the company has become more involved in creating the products it sells, and how those products get onto Wal-Mart's shelves. Wal-Mart has a similar collaboration with Pepsi, and has even pushed Coke to change how it distributes its sports drink, Powerade, to Wal-Mart.
 This approach mirror's Wal-Mart's general strategy of urging vendors to provide the products Wal-Mart wants, at the price it wants. In the laundry detergent business, for instance, Wal-Mart has been pushing manufacturers to make superconcentrate versions that require less packaging and shelf space. Wal-Mart would not comment for this article. 
 Other supermarkets typically collaborate with large food and beverage manufacturers to promote products and create special in-store displays, though they rarely play a role in new product offerings or in how those products are distributed.
 But Wal-Mart is special. ''Wal-Mart is the 800-pound gorilla,'' said Ted Taft, managing director at the Meridian Consulting Group of Westport, Conn. ''You're going to want to do more things for a customer who is growing as fast as Wal-Mart is.''
 Food and beverage makers are finding that playing ball with Wal-Mart is wise. If they cooperate, they stand to do more business with Wal-Mart, get better and larger amounts of placement on Wal-Mart shelves -- and increase sales. ''If you don't respond,'' Mr. Taft said, ''your competitor will.''
 The enormous leverage Wal-Mart has with its vendors is evident in Bentonville, Ark., where Wal-Mart is based. The vendors, including Coke and Pepsi's largest bottlers and other food and beverage makers, occupy nearby office buildings. The migration has turned Bentonville's once-quiet rural landscape into a booming metropolis. Kraft and Kellogg, for instance, both get 14 percent of their company's total sales from Wal-Mart. General Mills gets 16 percent. 
 Pepsi, Coke's rival, has responded similarly to a Wal-Mart product request. Wal-Mart executives asked Pepsi sales representatives in Bentonville to come up with a new diet soda in flavors not widely available. 
 PepsiCo, which gets 11 percent of its North American sales from Wal-Mart, said that after the request from Wal-Mart, the company quickly set about creating a new diet soda line called Slice One, initially to be sold only at Wal-Mart, starting this month. The beverage contains Wal-Mart's preferred sweetener, Splenda, and comes in orange, berry and grape flavors. 
 A Pepsi spokeswoman, Nicole Bradley, said that if the test of Slice One in Wal-Mart was successful, the soda would be sold by other retailers. ''Pepsi is willing to undertake similar efforts for any retailer interested, provided it makes economic sense,'' Ms. Bradley said. Pepsi also created an apple flavor soda and a Slurpee that was sold in 7-Eleven stores last summer and a tropical flavor of Mountain Dew for Taco Bell. After milk, eggs, bread and bananas, soda is the highest-volume item in grocery stores. In recent years, sales of regular soda have been declining, while sales of diet soda have boomed. But even more recently, diet soda sales have tapered off, with unit volumes up just 0.4 percent for the 52 weeks that ended Jan. 28, according to ACNielsen.
 Bill Bishop, president of Willard Bishop Consulting, a retail consulting firm in Barrington, Ill., says Wal-Mart's product ideas are often inspired by sophisticated product sales data from its stores. ''It's a collaborative process where Wal-Mart gives vendors all this data and then they help Wal-Mart analyze it,'' Mr. Bishop said. 
 Diet Coke With Splenda, which is sold at other retailers as well, has sold 20 million to 25 million cases in total, said John D. Sicher, the publisher of Beverage Digest. Mr. Sicher says that is a ''modest'' performance for a new soda. 
 Sometimes Wal-Mart's demands can cause unhappy ripple effects for a supplier. When Coke agreed to Wal-Mart's request to change its delivery system for Powerade, some of its smaller bottlers felt burned.
 Coke and its largest bottler, Coca-Cola Enterprises, say Wal-Mart asked them to start delivering Powerade directly to Wal-Mart warehouses. Wal-Mart declined to explain its reasons for the new distribution system. But a bottling executive, who requested anonymity for fear of alienating Wal-Mart, said the retailer thought it could do a better job stocking and promoting Powerade in its stores than the bottlers could. 
 ''They're saying, 'I've got better ability to execute it through my stores with my people; so, if you can fit into my world, I can help you,' '' said the executive.
 Another beverage industry executive who also insisted on not being identified said that Wal-Mart executives were upset because, when Powerade Option, a diet drink, was introduced last September, not all Wal-Mart stores were initially able to obtain the product. Unlike Coke's soft drinks, which are produced by 75 bottling companies around the country, Powerade is made at Coke-run plants and then distributed through the many bottling companies.
 A group of Coca-Cola bottlers have filed suit to block a national introduction of the new distribution system, saying the arrangement violates their contract.
 Marc Greenberg, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said Wal-Mart wants to strengthen Powerade's position in the sports drink market, which is dominated by Gatorade with its 80 percent market share. ''Wal-Mart wants competition,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''They love that Coke and Pepsi kill each other in colas to service them. They love everything where you have close market shares because without that you don't have high relative profits in the category.''
 Analysts predict that with Coke delivering Powerade directly to Wal-Mart warehouses, the retailer will be able to increase its margins. Bill Pecoriello, a beverage analyst at Morgan Stanley, estimates that by taking out the middleman, Coke could reduce Powerade's price to Wal-Mart by 5 percent. 
 Assuming Wal-Mart does not raise the retail price, Mr. Pecoriello wrote in a report last week, Wal-Mart's gross margin on Powerade would rise to 30 percent from the current 20 percent.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (93%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (92%); RETAILERS (92%); FOOD ADDITIVES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); BEVERAGE MFG (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); SPORTS DRINKS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); SOFT DRINK MFG (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (72%); WOMEN'S MARKET (72%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (65%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Soft Drinks; Aspartame; Splenda (Sugar Substitute); Sweeteners, Artificial; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); MERIDIAN CONSULTING GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Coca-Cola Co; Pepsico Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); KO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

PERSON: Melanie Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); OHIO, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



34 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Bush and India Reach Pact That Allows Nuclear Sales

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, March 2 

 BODY:
President Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India announced here on Thursday what Mr. Bush called a ''historic'' nuclear pact that would help India satisfy its enormous civilian energy needs while allowing it to continue to develop nuclear weapons.
 Under the agreement, the United States would end a decades-long moratorium on sales of nuclear fuel and reactor components and India would separate its civilian and military nuclear programs, and open the civilian facilities to international inspections. The pact fills in the broad outlines of a plan that was negotiated in July.
In Washington, Democratic and Republican critics said that India's willingness to subject some of its nuclear program to inspections was meaningless so long as the country had a secret military nuclear program alongside it, and that the pact would only encourage rogue nations like North Korea and Iran to continue to pursue nuclear weapons. They predicted a bruising fight in Congress over the pact, which needs its approval. [Page A10.]
 At the same time, Mr. Bush said he was going forward with a trip on Friday night to the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, to meet with the country's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, despite a bombing Thursday morning outside a Marriott Hotel and the United States Consulate in Karachi. The bombing, a suspected suicide attack, left four dead, including an American Embassy employee. 
 ''Terrorists and killers are not going to prevent me from going to Pakistan,'' Mr. Bush said at a joint news conference with Mr. Singh. ''My trip to Pakistan is an important trip. It's important to talk with President Musharraf about continuing our fight against terrorists. After all, he has had a direct stake in this fight; four times the terrorists have tried to kill him.''
 In New Delhi, American and Indian negotiators working all night reached agreement on the nuclear deal at 10:30 a.m. Thursday local time -- only two hours before Mr. Bush and Mr. Singh announced it -- after the United States accepted an Indian plan to separate its civilian and military nuclear facilities.
 In the plan, India agreed permanently to classify 14 of its 22 nuclear power reactors as civilian facilities, meaning those reactors will be subject for the first time to international inspections or safeguards. 
 The other reactors, as well as a prototype fast-breeder reactor in the early stages of development, will remain as military facilities, and not be subject to inspections. India also retained the right to develop future fast-breeder reactors for its military program, a provision that critics of the deal called astonishing. In addition, India said it was guaranteed a permanent supply of nuclear fuel.
 The separation plan, according to a senior Indian official, also envisions India-specific rules from the International Atomic Energy Agency, effectively recognizing India as a nuclear weapons state in ''a category of its own.''
 Both sides appeared eager to announce the agreement as the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's first visit to India, and did so with few details at a triumphal news conference on the lush grounds of Hyderabad House, a former princely residence in the heart of this capital. But Mr. Bush acknowledged that the deal now faced a difficult battle for approval in Congress that would entail a change in American law.
 ''We concluded an historic agreement today on nuclear power,'' Mr. Bush said, with Mr. Singh at his side. ''It's not an easy job for the prime minister to achieve this agreement, I understand. It's not easy for the American president to achieve this agreement. But it's a necessary agreement. It's one that will help both our peoples.''
 Speaking of Congress, he added: ''Some people just don't want to change and change with the times. But this agreement is in our interest.''
 Indians hailed the agreement as historic and highly advantageous for their country.
 ''It offers access to civilian nuclear energy, it protects your strategic program, and it mainstreams India,'' said Amitabh Mattoo, vice chancellor of Jammu University. ''India couldn't have hoped for a better deal.''
 Critics also said keeping the fast-breeder reactors under military control, without inspections, would allow India to develop far more nuclear arms, and more quickly, than it has in the past. Fast-breeder reactors are highly efficient producers of the plutonium needed for nuclear weapons.
 ''It's not meaningful to talk about 14 of the 22 reactors being placed under safeguards,'' said Robert J. Einhorn, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, who served as a top nonproliferation official in the Clinton administration and the early days of the Bush administration. ''What's meaningful is what the Indians can do at the unsafeguarded reactors, which is vastly increase their production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. One has to assume that the administration was so interested in concluding a deal that it was prepared to cave in to the demands of the Indian nuclear establishment.'' 
 Critics of the deal also said it would now be more difficult for the United States to persuade Iran and other nations to give up their nuclear weapons ambitions.
 ''It will set a precedent that Iran will use to argue that the United States has a double standard,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, a leading opponent of the deal. ''You can't break the rules and expect Iran to play by them, and that's what President Bush is doing today.''
 Administration officials in New Delhi countered that India was a responsible nuclear power and had earned the right to the nuclear energy technology that it urgently needs for a booming economy and its population of one billion.
 ''India is unique,'' R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, told reporters at a briefing in New Delhi.
 Mr. Burns, the administration's point man in the nuclear talks, added: ''It has developed its entire nuclear program over 30 years alone because it had been isolated. So the question we faced was the following: Is it better to maintain India in isolation, or is it better to try to bring it into the international mainstream? And President Bush felt the latter.''
 The deal was praised by Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency. ''This agreement is an important step towards satisfying India's growing need for energy, including nuclear technology and fuel, as an engine for development.,'' he said in a statement. ''It would also bring India closer as an important partner in the nonproliferation regime.''
 President Jacques Chirac of France also offered his blessings late Thursday, calling India ''a responsible power'' and saying access to civilian nuclear energy would help India ''respond to its immense energy needs while limiting its emissions of greenhouse gases,'' Agence France-Presse reported.
 At the news conference, Mr. Bush and Mr. Singh announced additional cooperative agreements on counterterrorism, fighting AIDS in India and trade, including the importing to the United States of Indian mangoes, considered by connoisseurs to be among the best in the world.
 ''And oh, by the way, Mr. Prime Minister, the United States is looking forward to eating Indian mangoes,'' Mr. Bush said at the news conference.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pakistani rescue workers arriving yesterday at the scene of a car bombing outside the American Consulate in Karachi that killed four people. (Photo by Zahid Hussein/Reuters)(pg. A10)
 President Bush watched Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice walk through a receiving line at a state dinner in New Delhi yesterday. The president is on his first visit to India, and is to continue on to Pakistan tonight. (Photo by Jim Young/Reuters)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POWER PLANTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPROVALS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); SUICIDE (51%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MANMOHAN SINGH (90%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (71%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Somini Sengupta; George W (Pres) Bush; Manmohan (Prime Min) Singh; Mohamed (Dir Gen) Elbaradei; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (90%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (79%) India; France; India

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



35 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

U.S. and India Announce Major Nuclear Agreement
President Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India announced in New Delhi what Mr. Bush called a ''historic'' nuclear pact that would help India satisfy its civilian energy needs while allowing it to continue to develop nuclear weapons. A1

A Call for Nutrition Education 

Nutrition education programs for parents would do a better job than large feeding programs in fighting the malnutrition that is stunting the development of more than 100 million children worldwide, a new World Bank report says. A6

Iraqi Premier Blamed for Strife
Leaders of Iraq's Kurdish, secular and Sunni Arab parties asked the main Shiite alliance to withdraw support for interim Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari as its candidate for prime minister in the next government, saying that he failed to contain the sectarian violence that swept the country over the past week. A12

Israel Warns Palestinians
Israel's acting prime minister, Ehud Olmert, warned Palestinians that Israel would use ''an iron fist against any attempt to resume terrorist activity.'' A8

Presidential Brawl in Belarus
Security officers in Belarus arrested a candidate running against President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, setting off a brawl in which the opposition candidate was punched and suffered a bruised face. A4

Kenya Cracks Down on Press
Police officers in Kenya raided a television station and a newspaper plant of the country's second-largest media company in response to a recent article about political intrigue involving President Mwai Kibaki. A8

NATIONAL A14-21

Archivists Tell Agencies To Halt Reclassification
The National Archives told intelligence agencies to stop removing previously declassified historical documents from public access and asked them to return many of the records they had pulled under a program operated in secret since 1999. A1

Interior Officials Under Fire
Some Interior Department officials, Bush administration appointees who oversee decisions that could have direct financial effects on their former employers, are facing scrutiny from critics, who say there is a revolving door between the private sector and government service. A1

Plan for Integrity Office Fails
A Senate committee voted down a proposal to create an Office of Public Integrity, an independent agency that would investigate ethics abuses in Congress. Instead, it adopted new laws that would strengthen disclosure requirements for lobbyists. A19

Leaders of the House Intelligence Committee agreed to expand their inquiry into the National Security Agency's domestic surveillance program, but Republicans rejected a broader effort by Democrats for President Bush to turn over White House records on the operation. A16

Frustrated by lags in updating safety regulations and adopting new technology to protect miners, lawmakers told mining officials that Congress should intervene. A21

West Virginia Police Chief Sued
Robert K. Bowman, the police chief of Welch. W. Va., is accused in a lawsuit of preventing a man from performing cardio-pulmonary resuscitation on another man, Claude Green Jr. The suit says the chief wrongly believed Mr. Green, who later died of a heart attack, was H.I.V. positive. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

A Republican Search For a Clinton Challenger
The Republican Party, struggling to find a viable candidate to unseat Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, has its eyes on a late entry: K. T. McFarland, a protegee of Henry A. Kissinger who has not been in public service since working as a Pentagon spokeswoman under President Ronald Reagan. A1

Toddlers' Preschool Rivalry
A growth in the number of children in New York City has turned the annual competition for private preschool spots into a frenzy. A1

11 Life Terms for Ex-Nurse
Charles Cullen, the former nurse who pleaded guilty to killing 29 patients at hospitals in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, was sentenced to 11 consecutive life terms. B1

FASHION B7

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-40

ESCAPES F1-10

OBITUARIES C14

SPORTSFRIDAYD1-7

Overtime for Labor Deal
The N.F.L. and the players association delayed the start of free agency from Friday until Monday, giving them three extra days to resume collective bargaining negotiations. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Wendy's Makes Changes
Wendy's announced that Trian Fund Management, the hedge fund controlled by Nelson Peltz, who was pressing for major changes, and his partner, Peter W. May, would get three seats on the board. C1

Wal-Mart's Shelf Strategy
Coca-Cola wanted to introduce a new diet soda, called Coke Zero; but, executives at Wal-Mart Stores wanted a drink with Splenda. In the end, Coke agreed to Wal-Mart's request and introduced Diet Coke With Splenda. The company used the name Coke Zero on another new drink. Coke's new game plan shows Wal-Mart's growing power in the grocery business. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The Gospel vs. H.R. 4437; pointless trip to Pakistan; a voting machine mess; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the sudden demise of a library.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E38
TV Listings E29
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (87%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); NUTRITION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); LITIGATION (71%); MALNUTRITION (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); CONTUSIONS (68%); TERRORISM (68%); ETHICS (66%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (62%); LEGISLATION (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (57%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MANMOHAN SINGH (73%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); MWAI KIBAKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) INDIA (97%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (92%); BELARUS (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



36 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: It Is European, But It Is Not A Union

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
IF Europe had an effective advertising regulator, the European Union would have to change its name. This is no union.
 In Brussels and Rome, there is outrage over the way the French government once again organized the creation of a national champion, just when an Italian company was making noises about bidding for a French one.
It looks as if the merger of the French companies, Suez and Gaz de France, will sail through, unless Suez shareholders or French unions revolt. This deal may well comply with the amazingly complicated and ineffective European rules on such things, which are said to bar cross-border discrimination. Officials in Brussels were left to sputter about the spirit of the rules. 
 Despite all the talk in Europe about one market, nations still count for more than the central operation. And governments will use their power when and as they wish. 
 The official line is that this merger has been under discussion for months, and was only accelerated a bit when Enel, the Italian company, talked about a possible bid for Suez.
 Perhaps, but it is hard to remember a major merger announcement that did not include the new top management structure or the name of the surviving company. 
 Those looking for a normal capital market, in which shareholders are treated as if the company is theirs, rather than the government's, could take heart from one fact, however.
 It was only last year, when Gaz de France was going public, that the French government vowed it would always maintain control. That was supposed to pacify workers, who feared their generous pensions would be cut if shareholders had power. Now, the government stake will fall to about 40 percent. Call it stealth privatization.
 France is not the only country acting like this, although none of the others have mergers announced by a prime minister. Spain appears to be trying to block a German company's hostile effort to take over a Spanish utility. Italy tried to keep foreign banks from buying Italian ones, but had to give in after scandal erupted. 
 Now, that victory for European integration may be reversed. Romano Prodi and Silvio Berlusconi, the two leading candidates for prime minister in next month's Italian election, are trying to outdo each other in outrage. Mr. Prodi vowed to block BNP Paribas's acquisition of an Italian bank unless France backed down.
 Mr. Prodi used to be president of the European Commission, where he tried to further integration. Now, he is far from the only politician making a mockery of the very concept.
 The spirit is also alive in the United States, where politicians denounce the idea of letting a Dubai company run some American ports. But at least it is not a case of California forcing a merger to keep out a New York company. 
 The European Union was supposed to be a study in gradual integration, which many hoped would lead to political union. But with unemployment high and Europeans fearful, highflying ideas of one Europe are being forgotten. 
 The situation cannot continue indefinitely. As a retired European regulator told me this week, either Europe will really become a union or eventually it will fly apart.
 A couple of years ago, speaking to a business conference in Morocco, former President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France said his dream was to hear people describing themselves as Europeans from France, or Europeans from Britain, rather than as French or British.
 Now the European Constitution that Mr. Giscard d'Estaing wrote has been rejected by his own countrymen. And the man who so recently ran the European Commission is vowing revenge on France.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows Gaz de France's stock price since 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY NAME CHANGES (90%); MERGERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); DIVESTITURES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICS (67%) Gas (Fuel); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: GDF SUEZ SA (91%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) European Union; Enel Spa; Gaz De France; Suez

TICKER: GSZ (PAR) (91%); GSZ (BIT) (91%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (76%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (57%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%) Europe; France; Italy

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



37 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Pointless Trip to Pakistan

 BODY:
At this moment in time, there is no more meaningful a place than Pakistan to illustrate the state of America's relations with the Muslim world. The country is ground zero in the fight against global terror. Anyone needing a fresh illustration need look no further than yesterday's bombing outside the American consulate in Karachi, which killed four people. Beyond the hunt for Osama bin Laden on the Afghan-Pakistan border, Pakistan is where radical fundamentalism is increasingly taking the moderate Islamic world hostage. 
 That's why President Bush's trip today to Islamabad could have been a chance to try to bridge this stretch of the chasm between Muslims and Westerners. Unfortunately, everything sets it up to be just the opposite, starting with the fact that it is being overshadowed by Mr. Bush's misbegotten nuclear pact with Pakistan's blood enemy, India.
 Since Mr. Bush agreed to share civilian nuclear technology with India despite its refusal to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, the Pakistanis have been demanding similar treatment. The Pakistanis won't get that deal, and any time spent discussing the issue is wasted time that could be spent on other ways in which America should be developing its relationship with the Pakistani people. 
 Mr. Bush's visit comes just as Pakistan is getting past deadly riots over Danish cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad. They came on the heels of American airstrikes that killed 18 Pakistani civilians in January -- strikes legitimately aimed at Qaeda leaders that tragically killed innocents.
 Clearly, this is the perfect time for the American president to do some nurturing. Too bad the nurturing that seems to interest Mr. Bush is with Pakistan's military dictator, President Pervez Musharraf. General Musharraf has yet to permit the democratic elections he has repeatedly promised since his coup more than six years ago, but the Bush administration, which says it wants democracy in the Muslim world, has put little pressure on him for reform.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Bush is receiving little pressure from Mr. Musharraf to grant the one thing that could tangibly bind America to Pakistan in a way that no number of summit meetings or sales of F-16 fighter jets could ever manage: a free trade agreement.
 An agreement like the one the United States has granted Jordan and Morocco and a host of other countries would mean more jobs in textile factories in Pakistan. It would mean fewer unemployed people on the street with nothing to do but listen to the exhortations of mad mullahs. It would cement the economic well-being of the average Pakistani to the well-being of the United States. 
 Alas, don't expect to see anything close to that coming out of this trip. The Bush-Musharraf summit meeting is one between two leaders far more interested in guns than butter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUPS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (63%); GARMENT WORKERS (60%); TEXTILE MFG (50%) Editorials; United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); MOROCCO (73%) Pakistan; India

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



38 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Furniture of the Regency, An Era of High Whimsy, To Be Auctioned in London

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:
Maurice Turpin, who was always known as Dick, died last year at 76, one of the last of the famous London antiques dealers of the postwar generation. He was a large and rotund man, instantly identifiable by his full walrus mustache, Harris Tweed trilby hat, thick glasses and high-pitched voice.
 On Thursday and March 14, Christie's London will auction nearly 900 lots from his estate, including furniture, mirrors, lighting, clocks, rugs and objets d'art. ''Some of these things haven't seen the light of day for 20 years,'' said Christian Jussel, a longtime friend who delivered the eulogy at Mr. Turpin's funeral. 
 Mr. Turpin set up a shop in the 1950's on Old Brompton Road. Eventually, he filled three mews houses in South Kensington with inventory and a workshop. (''When he ran out of room, he just bought another house,'' Mr. Jussel said.) He later opened a gallery on Bruton Street.
 Energetic, flamboyant, intimidating, he was always on the prowl, whether at country auctions or at tiny shops throughout England, in Scandinavia, on the Continent, even in the United States. On one trip to New York, he famously walked the length of Manhattan, from the Battery to Harlem, shopping along the way.
 ''He put quite a shipment together on that trip,'' Mr. Jussel writes in Christie's Magazine this month. ''Dick was a dealer who hated to sell. Deep inside he was, like many dealers, a collector. Dick loved to buy; he loved the back and forth and the hurly-burly of trading.''
 Christie's two-volume catalog for the sale includes an abundance of English ''brown furniture'': antique mahogany tables, chairs and cabinets in the Queen Anne and Georgian styles. More than 80 percent of the lots are being sold without reserve. Because several carry notations about restorations, the estimates are low. 
 Perhaps most interesting is a cache of stylish English Regency furniture made from roughly 1790 to 1830 (not, strictly speaking, the reign of the Prince Regent, which was 1811 to 1820). 
 This furniture betrays a taste for novelty both in form and function. New furniture types that emerged (examples of which appear in the sale) include the small wardrobe; the convex mirror; the Davenport, a writing desk with a sloping surface, named for an English captain of that name; the Canterbury, a small music stand with partitions for music books (now often used as a magazine rack), named after the early-19th-century bishop of Canterbury; and the pouch table, a small worktable with a bag fitted under the top to hold sewing materials or chips and checkers for board games.
 ''Fantasy was in vogue,'' said Jennifer Olshin, the director of Ingrao antiques gallery in New York. ''The freedom, whimsy, even humor of the Prince Regent set the tone for the decorative arts. Ingenuity flourished. Drawers and shelves multiplied, and functionality increased. Design ideas were drawn from China, Greece and Rome.''
 Drawings from Charles Heathcote Tatham's 1799 book, ''Etchings of Ancient Ornamental Architecture,'' inspired several designs. The sale includes a Regency wine cooler modeled on an ancient sarcophagus and a mahogany hall seat with fluted legs adapted from a marble bench.
 ''The main departure was the invention of more mechanical furniture,'' said Robert Israel, co-owner of Kentshire Galleries in New York. ''Think of the table with a pop-up writing slope, or the table that turns into library steps.'' (The sale has both.)
 There was also an appetite for exotic materials from the British colonies: bamboo, rosewood, calamander and ivory. Vizagapatam, a port on the Coromandel Coast of India, produced exquisite ivory and ivory-inlaid furniture, tea caddies and jewelry boxes. The sale has a great example, a seven-inch-tall Vizagapatam tea caddy with colonial-style buildings engraved on its ivory-veneered sides.
 ''Many Regency objects are relatively smaller in scale than what came before,'' Mr. Jussel said. ''Consider the teapoy, a small table on a tripod stand with little compartments.''
 While we may assume that England's great country houses today look much as they did when they were decorated in the 18th century, a new book challenges that assumption.
 ''The English country house as we know it -- the center of a self-contained estate and the setting for house parties -- is essentially a product of the Regency era,'' John Martin Robinson writes in ''The Regency Country House'' (Aurum Press). 
 Regency homeowners did not derive their wealth from agriculture but from trade, mining, banking and urban development. ''The English Regency aristocracy was, like that of the Republic of Venice, largely mercantile in origin,'' he writes. ''The Regency country house was the product of the world's first modern economy.''
 It was a world as fashion-conscious as our own. When the Prince Regent changed his mealtimes, his admirers followed. Breakfast was served as a buffet from 10 a.m. until noon, which led to the introduction of the breakfast room, often one fitted out with breakfront side cabinets whose grilled doors were lined with pleated silk panels, another new fashion. 
 Separate rooms were provided for listening to music, playing indoor games like billiards or shuttlecock and viewing paintings and sculpture. Conservatories were attached to living rooms so that guests could easily enjoy hothouse plants like orchids and cactuses.
 ''The library was often not just the principal room, but was distinctively and comfortably furnished with a variety of tables for specific purposes -- sofa tables, writing tables, reading tables, bookstands, games tables, circular library tables,'' Mr. Robinson writes. Examples of all of these are in the sale.
 The dining room also had its own distinct types: a table that could be extended with endless spare leaves, serving tables, wine tables and monumental sideboards, often built in. When the Prince Regent moved his dinnertime from 3 p.m. to sometime from 6 to 7 p.m., gaslights and Colza oil lamps (both Regency introductions) and twin-light candelabra were used to increase the illumination in the dining room.
 The Turpin sale is a good introduction to English furniture. For those who want to learn more, the Sir John Soane's Museum Foundation in New York is offering a four-part seminar this month and next on Regency architecture and design, focused on contemporaries of Soane, an English neoclassical architect of the period (information: www.soanefoundation.com).


GRAPHIC: Photo: An early-19th-century ivory-veneered tea caddy from Vizagapatam, a port in India, is in the Dick Turpin sale at Christie's London. (Photo by Christie's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); BRITISH MONARCHS (71%); WILLS (71%); BOARD GAMES (60%) Antiques; Reviews; Auctions; Furniture; Wills and Estates

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Christie's

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: Wendy Moonan; Maurice Turpin

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (74%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



39 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Where Fascism Was Stylish and Vicious, if Ineffectual

BYLINE: By DAVID SCHOENBAUM. 
David Schoenbaum, the author of ''Hitler's Social Revolution,'' teaches history at the University of Iowa.

 BODY:

Mussolini's Italy
Life Under the Fascist Dictatorship, 1915-1945
By R. J. B. Bosworth
Illustrated. 692 pages.
Penguin Press. $35.
 Everyone knows that Gertrude Stein was referring to her native Oakland, Calif., when she famously declared that ''there is no there there.'' But to read the Australian historian R. J. B. Bosworth, she could have been talking about Italian Fascism, the upper-case source and inspiration of the lower-case political movement, style and ideology that would become and remains a global presence.
 Preceded by his major studies of the Italian dictatorship and its dictator, Benito Mussolini, Mr. Bosworth's retrospective of the country's experience with both is shrewd, lucid, exhaustively documented and totally unsentimental. But among its greatest virtues is his eye for what made Italian Fascism Italian. 
 Native apologists and foreign Italophiles have argued for decades that Italians were too nice to be serious fascists. Mr. Bosworth is unmoved. On the contrary, as he reminds his readers implacably, their fascism was as lethal, oppressive, corrupt, manipulative, racist and misogynist as anybody's -- or at least meant to be.
 But, ironically, the same Italianita that made the dictatorship possible also made it relatively bearable. Of course, no dictatorship this side of Moscow could help being more bearable than the brown monster beyond the Alps that awed and horrified its Italian ally before dragging it along into the abyss. Yet compared with clones and metastases from prewar Iberia and Hungary to the postwar Middle East, the house that Mussolini built at least looks better than many.
 In fact, as Mr. Bosworth points out from the start, much of Fascism went back to the origins of the modern Italian nation-state. Like their 19th-century peers from Belgium to Romania, Italian Liberals yearned for a common flag, parliament, economy, identity, even empire. To a point, the truths held to be self-evident north of the Alps worked in Italy, too. But the transition to constitutional government was a work in progress, where progress needed all the help it could get.
 By 1914, it was clear that it would take more than a constitutional monarchy, a railroad, a gold-based currency and African colonies to overcome the limits imposed by geography, culture and history. Eager to play with the big powers, Italians were not only poor, illiterate and economically underdeveloped, they were also allergic to any state, modern or otherwise. This would include dictatorship.
 Per capita gross national product was roughly 80 percent of France's, and half of Britain's. On the eve of World War I, more than 3 percent of Italians, most of them from the country's more developed north and center, left to work abroad or emigrated altogether.
 But it took the war to turn national dysfunction into organized Fascism. For the next generation, the toxic cuvee of chauvinism, opportunism, status anxiety, violence for its own sake and aggrieved national pride would be Italy's most notable export.
 Catalyzed by ghastly casualties, frustrated national aspirations and the specter of red revolution, a cohort of middle-class veterans resolved to knock heads together, be they respectable or proletarian. In 1918, the word fascio, meaning an ad hoc political action committee, was a generic, there for anyone who wanted to use it. By 1920, despite an electoral debacle the first time a Fascist ticket appeared on the ballot, it had become a brand.
 Two years later, Mussolini, an improbably charismatic former Socialist, would-be intellectual and amateur violinist, was appointed prime minister by an establishment resigned to his inevitability. For a brief moment, his magic dazzled Arturo Toscanini and Maria Montessori, as well as any number of notables of Jewish descent. Millions of fellow citizens meanwhile concluded that, if not the man to finish what the great work of national unification had begun, Mussolini was at least a lesser evil.
 In 1924, there was a near-meltdown when Fascists murdered Giacomo Matteotti, a Socialist parliamentarian. Mr. Bosworth surmises that he was about to blow the whistle on hanky-panky with a United States oil company. Mussolini rode out the crisis by declaring himself dictator. He then kept regular office hours, and maintained an ostentatiously clean desk. By the 1930's, membership in the party approached five million, and membership in one or another Fascist affiliate extended to nearly half the population.
 Yet for all the personality cult, the regime's most notable achievement, as Mr. Bosworth sees it, was that it survived as long as it did. Virtually irrespective of where it set its sights -- culture, science, economics, let alone the military -- its performance persistently fell short of its discredited Liberal predecessor's.
 Imperialist campaigns in Libya and Ethiopia, like its active support for Franco's insurgents in Spain, did nothing to help. An occasion for ecstasies of self-celebration, the draining of the malarial Pontine Marshes was undone by a foreign policy that turned the kingdom into a Nazi ally, and the area, like the whole country, into a war zone.
 Italians continued to venerate their king and the pope as they venerated the Duce. The Mafia continued to flourish. Business by patronage and favor remained the rule. Even a campaign to replace the polite pronoun bombed.
 Mr. Bosworth's choice of epigraph is the Archbishop of Canterbury's speech from Shakespeare's ''Henry V'' on a state of ''honey-bees,/ Creatures that by a rule in nature teach/ The act of order to a peopled kingdom.'' But Shelley's ''Ozymandias'' would also do the job.
 Left for posterity are Pier Luigi Nervi's splendid Stazione Termini in Rome; Balbo Street, the link between Lake Shore Drive and Michigan Avenue in Chicago, which commemorates Italo Balbo, the flier who was Italy's answer to Lindbergh; the laurea, the degree that confers the titles Dottore and Dottoressa on the one Italian student in three who finishes college; and a cautionary tale that all of us, Italian and non-Italian, would do well to remember.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review in Weekend on Friday, about ''Mussolini's Italy,'' by R. J. B. Bosworth, referred incorrectly to Oakland, Calif., of which Gertrude Stein said ''there is no there there.'' (The reviewer said that Stein's famous remark could apply as well to Italian Fascism.) Although she spent much of her childhood in Oakland, it was not her birthplace. She was born in Allegheny, Pa., which is now part of Pittsburgh.
The Books of The Times review in Weekend on March 3, about ''Mussolini's Italy,'' by R. J. B. Bosworth, misidentified the architect of the Stazione Termini in Rome, which was cited as a remnant of the Fascist era. The part of the station built between 1938 and 1942 was designed by Angiolo Mazzoni; the rest, built between 1948 and 1950, was by Eugenio Montuori and Annibale Vitellozzi, among others. Pier Luigi Nervi was not the architect.
The Books of The Times review in Weekend on Friday, about ''Mussolini's Italy,'' by R. J. B. Bosworth, referred incorrectly to Oakland, Calif., of which Gertrude Stein said ''there is no there there.'' (The reviewer said that Stein's famous remark could apply as well to Italian Fascism.) Although she spent much of her childhood in Oakland, it was not her birthplace. She was born in Allegheny, Pa., which is now part of Pittsburgh.
The Books of The Times review in Weekend on March 3, about ''Mussolini's Italy,'' by R. J. B. Bosworth, misidentified the architect of the Stazione Termini in Rome, which was cited as a remnant of the Fascist era. The part of the station built between 1938 and 1942 was designed by Angiolo Mazzoni; the rest, built between 1948 and 1950, was by Eugenio Montuori and Annibale Vitellozzi, among others. Pier Luigi Nervi was not the architect.

GRAPHIC: Photo: R. J. B. Bosworth (Photo by Penguin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); WORLD WAR I (78%); HISTORY (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LITERATURE (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: David Schoenbaum; R J B Bosworth; Benito (1883-1945) Mussolini

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ALPS (73%) ITALY (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); ROMANIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (53%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



40 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Retailing Worries Leave Investors Unsettled

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as oil prices increased sharply and Treasury bond yields rose, and as retail sales for February disappointed investors.
 ''There's uncertainty about the Fed, there's uncertainty about how the economy is performing and on top of that, we had oil prices climbing up again, which only benefits energy stocks,'' said Evan Olsen, head of equity trading at Stephens Inc. ''Stocks came off their lows, helped by the energy sector, but the breadth today was negative, especially after the retail sales report.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 28.02 points, or 0.25 percent, at 11,025.51. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.10 points, or 0.16 percent, to 1,289.14. The Nasdaq composite index declined 3.53 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,311.11. 
 Silver vaulted to its highest level in 22 years amid hopes that a silver exchange-traded fund will soon be approved by United States regulators. Silver for May delivery surged 4.3 percent, or 41.8 cents, settling at $10.208 an ounce in New York, after ranging from $9.76 to $10.225, its highest level since early 1984. 
 Energy supply threats pushed up the price of crude oil, which stirred concerns that higher energy costs could reduce corporate profits and curb consumer spending. April crude oil futures rose $1.39 -- up 2.2 percent -- to settle at $63.36 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Most oil and gas companies in the S.& P. 500 rose. ConocoPhillips was up 1.6 percent, or $1.01, at $62.78, and Exxon Mobil, a Dow component, gained almost 1 percent, or 51 cents, to $60.85. Exxon's advance curbed the declines in both the Dow industrials and the S.& P. 500.
 Shares of the auto and truck parts maker Dana fell 81 cents, or almost 44 percent, to close at $1.04, after it failed to make bond interest payments, heightening concerns that it could file for bankruptcy.
 Shares in Procter & Gamble, the consumer products company, declined 0.9 percent, or 56 cents, to close at $59.55. P.& G. was among the heaviest weights on the Dow industrials.
 Concern that benchmark interest rates may rise further drove bond yields higher. The yield of the Treasury's 10-year note climbed to 4.63 percent, from 4.58 percent on Wednesday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 11/32, to 98 31/32. 
 As bond yields rose, investors sold bank stocks. Rising interest rates raise borrowing costs for banks and make it more difficult for them to make money on loans. Shares of Citigroup, a Dow component and the nation's largest financial services company, were the biggest drag on the S.& P. 500. Citigroup was down 1 percent, or 48 cents, to $46.05. A bank index was down 0.6 percent, its biggest one-day loss in six weeks. 
 On the data front, several chain stores reported disappointing sales last month after a major snowstorm and freezing temperatures in the Northeast kept customers from buying spring merchandise.
 Trading was heavy on the New York Stock Exchange, with about 1.79 billion shares being exchanged, above last year's daily average of 1.62 billion shares. On the Nasdaq, 2.09 billion shares were traded, also above last year's 1.80 billion average.
 About five shares fell for every four stocks that rose on the Big Board. On the Nasdaq, declining stocks outpaced gainers by a four-to-three ratio.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); BONDS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INTEREST RATES (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (79%); FUTURES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SILVER MARKETS (76%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); APPROVALS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (73%); STEPHENS INC (72%); DANA HOLDING CORP (64%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (73%); DAN (NYSE) (64%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



41 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Much Talk of a Nuclear Renaissance, but So Far Little Action 

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD and HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 1 

 BODY:
With industry hopes rising for a revival in orders for nuclear power reactors, the sale last month of Westinghouse's former nuclear division to Toshiba might stand out as a landmark. But not necessarily because the industry seems ready to take off.
 Toshiba surprised many in the industry by agreeing to pay a lofty $5.4 billion for a collection of nuclear power manufacturing facilities, with Westinghouse's being the centerpiece, assembled by British Nuclear Fuels. 
That move has only added to the talk of a rebirth of nuclear construction, but analysts say that most of it is still just that -- talk. In the United States, Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman recently referred to more than a dozen new reactors on the drawing boards, but not one has yet been ordered, and industry analysts do not expect to see any orders until late 2007, at the earliest. ''I think we all were surprised by the price,'' said Michael G. Morris, the president and chief executive of American Electric Power, the largest power generator in the United States. Mr. Morris, whose company serves five million customers in 11 states, favors more nuclear power. 
 China has announced its intention to quadruple its nuclear output in the next 20 years, but at the same time the country has also stated that it wants to develop its own reactor. 
 Politicians in Italy, Britain and Poland have been examining the merits of new nuclear plants. But to date, the only nuclear plant being built in Europe is a Finnish reactor that was the focus of 12 years of debate before construction began last year. 
 Much of the optimism on nuclear construction is based on the idea that two recent trends will continue: the cost of competing fuels will rise, as will government controls on carbon emissions. And it assumes that methods of lowering carbon emissions from other energy sources, like coal, will not become widespread. 
 Nuclear power plants are more expensive to build than gas or coal plants, and take several years longer to construct. But once built, they generate energy steadily and cheaply, and emit negligible amounts of greenhouse gases. 
 In European countries where rules about carbon emissions are already firmly established -- in contrast to the United States, where limits are more lenient -- some critics of nuclear power have started to question whether building new reactors is a cost-effective way to lower these emissions. 
 More nuclear power generation ''doesn't make sense economically and environmentally,'' said Norman Baker, a specialist on environmental issues for the Liberal Democrat Party in Britain. Spending $:1, or about $1.70, on improving energy efficiency yields seven times the reduction in carbon emissions as spending the same amount on new nuclear construction, he said. ''If you're interested in climate change, you should demand clean coal and renewable resources'' instead, Mr. Baker said.
 Energy markets have changed significantly across Europe since the 1970's, the last time a significant number of nuclear plants were built. Many European power companies have been privatized, and the energy market opened up to competition in many countries. 
 Any new construction would need to be financed by a private company, which would have to guarantee its investors that the reactor would earn profits in the future. It is not a sure bet, energy analysts say. 
 It is ''too early to speak about a nuclear renaissance,'' a recent report on Europe by the rating agency Standard & Poor's concluded.
 ''The market environment is now significantly riskier than it was when the original nuclear plants were built,'' said Peter Kernan, an analyst at S.& P. who was a co-author of the report. ''Operators would need to be convinced there is a sound and robust business case'' for building a plant before they start devoting capital to it, Mr. Kernan said. He said there was no evidence yet to suggest that. 
 Mark Herlach, a lawyer at Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan who represented British Nuclear Fuels in the deal and who specializes in energy asset sales, defended the price of the transaction, saying it made sense because of the rising costs of other fuels and concerns over greenhouse gases. ''This is a different environment,'' he said.
 The Nuclear Regulatory Commission recently approved the design of a new Westinghouse model, the AP-1000, an ''advanced passive'' reactor that would have fewer moving parts in its safety systems. No one has bought it yet. 
 ''What Toshiba has done by this acquisition is acquired a leading technology in the AP-1000, '' Mr. Herlach said. And China, the largest emerging market in the world, has expressed a preference for that type of reactor, called a pressurized water reactor.
 With the Westinghouse deal, Toshiba has acquired more than a new reactor design. The bundle of assets being sold to Toshiba is the distilled result of years of scrambling and reassembling the companies that built reactors in the 1970's and 80's and still service them.
 The core asset in the sale is the former nuclear division of Westinghouse Electric, which had already absorbed Combustion Engineering. So, with Westinghouse, Toshiba gains two of the four companies that built the existing complex of American reactors. A third company, the commercial nuclear division of Babcock & Wilcox, is now in the hands of Areva, a French-German consortium. The fourth company is General Electric, which is trying to sell a newly designed reactor.
 With the sale, Toshiba becomes the only vendor to sell updated versions of both types of reactors now in use. But in the short term, the least glamorous parts of Westinghouse's business may prove the most valuable for Toshiba: the company's extensive repair and maintenance services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); COAL INDUSTRY (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%) Electric Light and Power; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Atomic Energy; Factories and Industrial Plants ; Gas (Fuel); Coal; Finances; Electric Light and Power; Building (Construction); Finances; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (90%); TOSHIBA CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Toshiba Corp; Westinghouse Power Generation; Standard & Poor's Corp

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (90%); TOS (LSE) (85%); 6502 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL G MORRIS (68%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (54%) Matthew L Wald; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FINLAND (74%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



42 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 732 words

PERSON: Michael S. Joyce

HEADLINE: Michael S. Joyce, Research Patron, Dies at 63 

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Michael S. Joyce, who as steward of the Olin and Bradley foundations was an influential patron of leading conservative research and civic organizations, died on Feb. 24 at a hospice in Germantown, Wis. He was 63 and lived in West Bend, Wis. 
 The cause was liver disease, said Frank Cannon, a family spokesman in Washington. 
Mr. Joyce was executive vice president of the conservative John M. Olin Foundation in New York from 1979 to 1985. He then became president of the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation of Milwaukee, shortly after its assets soared to nearly $300 million, making it one of the richest foundations in the country. He remained at its helm until 2001.
 Mr. Joyce was an important figure in a formidable network of organizations that emerged during that time to promote a conservative political and social agenda. The Olin and Bradley foundations, along with the Sarah Scaife Foundation in Pittsburgh, accounted for a large share of support for centers of conservative thinking, including the American Enterprise Institute, the Cato Institute, the Heritage Foundation, the Hoover Institution, the Hudson Institute and the Federalist Society.
 The Olin Foundation had long given to such causes, if somewhat randomly. Mr. Olin recruited William E. Simon, Treasury secretary under President Richard M. Nixon, to head the foundation board in the late 1970's. Mr. Simon, in turn, entrusted operations to Mr. Joyce, a protege of Irving Kristol, a founder of neoconservatism.
 Waldemar A. Nielsen wrote in his authoritative study on foundations, ''The Golden Donors,'' that Mr. Joyce saw to it that grants were made ''with a sharp focus on maximizing their impact on government policy and on public opinion.'' Money was channeled into public policy research via respected individuals, like free-market economists and Nobel laureates, and via institutions like the American Enterprise Institute, but also through liberal centers like the Brookings Institution. 
 Mr. Joyce told The New York Times in 1985 that many traditional foundations had become ''fossilized in their opinions.'' By contrast, he said, his intention was to support the scholars best able to ''de-utopianize political thinking'' and to promote thinkers who sought ''new ways to improve the workings of democratic capitalism.''
 During Mr. Joyce's tenure, the Olin Foundation played a crucial role in taking free-market thinking to law schools by supporting programs at Harvard, Columbia and others. It sponsored a program to teach judges how to apply economic analysis to the cases before them.
 Mr. Joyce left the Olin Foundation when it disbanded in accordance with Mr. Olin's wishes and then took charge at the Bradley Foundation. As a believer in smaller government, Mr. Joyce directed more money toward local programs, including religion-based initiatives, fellowships, advocacy groups and experiments with welfare changes and school vouchers. 
 Michael Stewart Joyce was born in Cleveland and graduated with a major in history and philosophy from Cleveland State University in 1967. He taught history and political science and coached football at Catholic high schools in the Cleveland area. He received a doctorate in education from Walden University in 1974 while working for the Educational Research Council of America, a textbook publisher.
 He moved to New York in 1978 to direct the staff of the Institute for Educational Affairs, which was led by Mr. Kristol and Mr. Simon, an investment banker. He was named executive director at the Olin Foundation the following year. 
 Mr. Joyce served on the Reagan administration's transitional team in 1980 and on President Ronald Reagan's panel on government cost reduction. The Olin Foundation grants he channeled helped writers and economists who were widely regarded as influential in setting White House policies. 
 He was also an informal adviser to the administration of President Bush, suggesting names for appointments and policy ideas. He also was associated with the president's early efforts to promote religion-based initiatives across the country. 
 Mr. Joyce is survived by his wife of 17 years, Mary Jo Repinski Joyce; two daughters, Mary Therese Joyce of Milwaukee and Angela R. Joyce of West Bend; a son, Martin M., of Milwaukee; a sister, Sheila M. Montgomery of Milwaukee; and two brothers, Timothy J., of Brewster, Mass., and Kevin F., of Seattle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOSPICE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); RELIGION (60%); LIVER DISEASE (57%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (55%); HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (55%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

RICHARD NIXON (56%) Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



43 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rolls at 5-Year Low

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Fewer than 300,000 Americans filed first-time claims for unemployment benefits last week, and the number of people on benefit rolls fell to a five-year low, pointing to strength in the labor market.
 Initial jobless claims totaled 294,000 in the week ended Feb. 25, a rise of 15,000 from a week earlier, the Labor Department said yesterday. Continuing claims fell by 2,000 in the week ended Feb. 18, to 2.486 million -- the lowest since Feb. 10, 2001. The four-week average fell to 2.508 million, from 2.51 million. 
 The Labor Department's next report on monthly employment comes on March 10. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



44 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Debating a Shipping Shortcut That Turned Against New Orleans

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
It has been a long road back for New Orleans Cold Storage. After Hurricane Katrina, with no power for its freezers, 32 million pounds of chicken rotted in the waterside warehouse of the shipping company, and the reek was detectable from a mile away. 
 The company put itself back together, but its 135 jobs are suddenly facing a more serious threat. New Orleans Cold Storage, like other nearby businesses, owes its livelihood to the Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet, the reviled navigational shortcut between the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico that many faulted for much of the city's devastation. 
The canal, referred to locally as Mr. Go, is widely considered an environmental disaster. Residents and officials here say they want it shut down or at least bottled up. If the channel is closed, thousands of jobs could be lost unless the government spends $400 million to move the nine major businesses that currently depend on the channel directly to the banks of the Mississippi.
 In the struggle to build adequate flood protection, as the canal dilemma shows, even the easy decisions are hard. A city whose economy was built around shipping and trade cannot easily limit its access to water.
 And that helps to explain why so many hard decisions like whether some neighborhoods should be abandoned are not being made at all.
 The role of the canal in the flooding six months ago is not in dispute. Computer models of the storm and photographs suggest that the canal acted as a funnel for water being forced up toward the city, leading to the breaches in the Inner Harbor Navigational Canal that devastated the Lower Ninth Ward. 
 Last month, the State Legislature passed a resolution urging Congress to close the canal, which the Army Corps of Engineers completed in the 1960's.
 ''People are really afraid of the Mr. Go and have a right to be,'' said Henry Rodriguez Jr., president of the devastated St. Bernard Parish, just east of the city.
 Mr. Rodriguez's sector suffered widespread damage because of levee failures along the length of the canal.
 ''My No. 1 choice would be to close it entirely,'' he said, adding that his parish could also live with options like installing movable gates to close the outlet for storms. 
 For decades, Mr. Go has also come under criticism for destroying the wetlands alongside it by acting as a channel for saltwater from the gulf, which kills vegetation, and it has never lived up to its promise as a major navigational waterway.
 The channel has become such a presence in the collective consciousness here that a lawyer, Soren Gisleson, recently wore a Mr. Go Mardi Gras costume with a wig coiffed to resemble a tidal wave and a watery blue strip painted from his face down the center of his white tuxedo.
 Nonetheless, the revival of New Orleans Cold Storage and other shipping-related businesses has been a bright spot in the flattened economy, one the city would like to nurture. Mark E. Blanchard, executive vice president of the company, said shutting the canal, or even letting it languish, would be a severe hardship.
 ''We worked for a long time with the Port of New Orleans to be able to build this facility on the water,'' Mr. Blanchard said. 
 The plant, which opened in 2003, employs 135 people directly, along with 200 union-represented stevedores hired by a contractor, for a $13 million payroll in the last year. The company was preparing to build a third berth and expand its warehouse by a third.
 Having made an $11 million investment based on the government's original commitment that it would keep the canal clear and deep, New Orleans Cold Storage faces a number of difficulties. The storm cut the canal depth, to 22 feet from 36 feet, meaning that the company's clients have to use smaller ships. 
 After being loaded, they continue east into the Inner Harbor Navigational Canal, which connects to the river through a lock, and go back to sea down the Mississippi. But the locks, which are 80 years old, are too narrow for many larger ships, so that solution is temporary at best.
 Without a sense of future success, Mr. Blanchard said, ''we'd probably have to reconsider where we expand in the future.''
 Those who support some continued use of the canal but are resigned to a future without Mr. Go say the effects on businesses and their employees should be softened. 
 The state economic development secretary, Michael J. Olivier, said that the nine businesses that would be most hurt by closing the canal has 1,000 employees and that an additional 9,000 jobs would be affected. 
 ''What are we going to do about these nine businesses now, who in good faith located there?'' Mr. Olivier asked. ''I would hope that we can convince Congress and the administration that they should have a role in helping to fix that.''
 Gary P. LaGrange, president of the Port of New Orleans, said it would cost $381 million to relocate all nine businesses to the banks of the Mississippi and $5 million a year to take goods to ships on the Mississippi by truck or barge until new wharves can be built on the river. 
 ''Any way you slice it, you're going to have added transportation costs, which makes you less competitive,'' Mr. LaGrange said. ''These are only interim solutions. We've got to look to long-term solutions.''
 The Corps of Engineers has proposed building navigable gates to stop storm surges from funneling up the canal. But corps officials say the ultimate fate of the canal will be determined as part of long-range studies of the levee system. No decision about closing the canal is imminent, according to the corps. 
 Major water projects are notoriously time-consuming. Construction on a new lock for the nearby Inner Harbor Navigational Canal started in 2002 and has not been completed. Congress first authorized it in 1956. 
 To Mr. Rodriguez, the parish president, the top question is how to give residents a sense that their safety comes first. ''What's more important,'' Mr. Rodriguez asked, ''people's lives or the economy?''
 Mr. Blanchard, of the shipping company, said he knew that rebuilding was vital.
 ''It's a huge balancing act between people having houses and people having jobs,'' he said. ''You can fix all their houses and make them whole here. But if there are no jobs, what are they going to do?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The reopened New Orleans Cold Storage shipping company has resumed loading chicken to be shipped on the Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet. (Photographs by Lee Celano for The New York Times)Map of Louisiana highlighting Mississippi River Gulf Outlet: Pilings of a levee damaged by Hurricane Katrina on the controversial Mr. Go shipping canal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); RIVERS (89%); MARDI GRAS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TSUNAMIS (75%); WETLANDS (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); ARMIES (52%) Ships and Shipping ; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Labor; Canals; Ships and Shipping 

PERSON: John Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (95%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Mississippi River; Gulf of Mexico; New Orleans (La); Gulf Coast (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



45 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Players Union And the N.F.L. Agree to Extend Negotiations

BYLINE: By CLIFTON BROWN

 BODY:
The N.F.L. and the players association delayed the start of free agency from today until Monday, giving them three days to resume collective-bargaining negotiations.
 The new deadline created an opportunity for the owners and the union to find common ground, with talks at a critical stage. Unless there is an extension to the current collective-bargaining agreement, the salary cap will be set Monday at $94.5 million, about $10 million less than it would be with an extension.
That would force many teams to cut players by 12:01 a.m. Monday to get under the salary cap. Many teams would also lack salary-cap room to make attractive offers to free agents. 
 The owners and the players are surely feeling a sense of urgency, uncertain if the 2006 season will be the final one with a salary cap. The current labor agreement expires after the 2007 season, but that season will be played without a salary cap unless a new agreement is reached. The union's executive director, Gene Upshaw, has insisted that the salary cap will never return once the league reaches an uncapped year.
 Negotiations became more tense yesterday morning when the owners held an emergency meeting in Manhattan and voted unanimously to break off talks. Earlier this week, the owners offered the players about 56 percent of gross revenue, but the union sought about 60 percent. Until that gap narrowed, the owners said there was little reason to talk.
 ''The meeting was short, concise and unanimous,'' said Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, standing in the lobby of the Grand Hyatt in Manhattan, after about a one-hour meeting with Commissioner Paul Tagliabue. ''We're all on the same page. The position that's on the table by the players is just not acceptable, and it wasn't acceptable to any of the constituents.''
 Asked yesterday morning how dire the situation was, Tagliabue said: ''It's as dire as dire can be. Without an extension, it's certainly not a good situation for anybody.''
 But Tagliabue later added, ''We're going to go back and talk about next steps.''
 A few hours later, the delayed start of the new league year was announced, giving a reprieve to general managers who were making plans to announce roster cuts. Teams were allowed to rescind any names that had been submitted yesterday to the waiver wire.
 The league did not immediately announce when talks with the union would resume. But when the sides return to bargaining, they will have many issues to resolve. 
 According to the union, a division among owners regarding revenue sharing has been a major stumbling block in negotiations. At least eight teams with stadium luxury boxes and other locally generated revenue -- Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Houston, New England, Philadelphia and Washington -- produce far more revenue than teams in smaller markets.
 ''We have to do something that 32 teams can live with,'' said Lamar Hunt, owner of the Kansas City Chiefs, referring to the entire league..
 The owners did not discuss revenue sharing yesterday, saying the percentage of revenue sought by the players was unacceptable.
 ''The players association has on the table a demand that doesn't recognize the reality of league economics today,'' Tagliabue said. ''In the last half-dozen years, we've created a structure that enabled us to build an unprecedented number of new stadiums, many of them with very large investments by owners. Those stadiums, coupled with our TV revenues, have been the engine that has provided prosperity for the players. The proposal that the players association has on the table basically is kind of a have-your-cake-and-eat-it-too proposal. They want to have all the revenues, but they do not, in any way shape or form, recognize the cost to the owners in building those stadiums. 
 ''It's just an untenable economic proposition from the owners' standpoint.''
 Both sides have incentive to reach a deal. Without a new deal, marquee players hitting the free-agent market Monday, like Shaun Alexander, Edgerrin James, Drew Brees and Antwaan Randle El, may not find many suitors. 
 Only a handful of teams would have substantial room under the lower salary cap, most notably Minnesota, Arizona and Cleveland. Some teams -- like the Redskins, the Chiefs, the Oakland Raiders and the Miami Dolphins -- would be forced to scramble to get under the cap by Monday.
 Rookies entering the league may feel the pinch if the labor situation remains unresolved. Signing bonuses can be prorated for only four years, and there is a 30 percent limit on year-to-year pay raises. Without a new labor agreement, players in this year's draft will have trouble equaling or surpassing the contracts given to players taken in the same position last season.
 An uncapped season in 2007 would hurt many owners financially. Without a salary cap, high-revenue teams would have the finances to pursue players that lower revenue teams could not. 
 Planning future contracts has also become difficult for teams uncertain whether there will be a salary cap in place.
 Tagliabue said yesterday that the owners had previously made a proposal that would extend the labor agreement to 2011. But when asked how progress in negotiations could be made, Tagliabue said, ''It's about the players association fundamentally changing the character of their demands.''
 The prospect of a quick resolution seemed bleak yesterday morning. But by last night, both sides had at least agreed there was enough reason to resume negotiations.


GRAPHIC: Photo: N.F.L. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said yesterday that the owners had offered to extend the current labor agreement to 2011. (Photo by Louis Lanzano/Associated Press)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Football; Labor; Organized Labor

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (53%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Clifton Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); DENVER, CO, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NORTHEAST USA (55%); COLORADO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



46 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Sales Slowed For Retailers In February

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Shoppers curbed their retail spending in February, according to reports released yesterday, as a blast of winter weather hurt demand for spring apparel. 
 Wal-Mart Stores and the Target Corporation were among those reporting that sales growth slowed from January.
Apparel retailers, including Gap and chains catering to teenagers, posted the worst results. Department stores had a 1.8 percent gain, the slowest rise since November. 
 Consumer confidence in the United States slid to a three-month low in February because of higher heating bills and a drop in home sales.
 Sales at stores open at least a year -- known as same-store sales -- rose 2.9 percent, according to the Goldman Sachs retail composite index. The gain was 5.0 percent in January.
 The major stock indicators fell yesterday, in part because of the report, and individual stocks including Wal-Mart, Target, Gap and Abercrombie & Fitch also posted declines.
 Wal-Mart said same-store sales rose 3.2 percent, within its forecast range. Sales gained 2.9 percent at Wal-Mart's main chain of discount stores and 4.6 percent at Sam's Club. The company forecast a gain of 1 percent to 3 percent for March.
 Target, the second-largest discount retailer after Wal-Mart, said sales rose 3.6 percent last month, beating estimates. It forecast an rise of 1 percent to 3 percent for March.
 Same-store sales at the Kohl's Corporation rose 3.4 percent, more than twice the estimates of analysts. The Costco Wholesale Corporation, the nation's largest warehouse club, said sales climbed 8 percent.
 Gap said same-store sales plunged 11 percent. Sales declined 7 percent at Gap stores in North America, 11 percent at Banana Republic and 14 percent at the Old Navy chain. The results led to significantly lower merchandise margins, Gap said.
 Limited Brands, which owns Victoria's Secret and Express, had a 5 percent increase. The results were led by a 9 percent gain at Express.
 Abercrombie & Fitch, which sells casual clothing for teenagers, posted its smallest same-store sales gain in more than a year. Sales rose 5 percent, less than the 14 percent estimate of analysts. Its stock fell $6.20, or 9.2 percent, to close at $61.05
 Among department stores, same-store sales at J. C. Penney climbed 2.3 percent. Federated Department Stores posted a 1 percent gain. Saks said sales dropped 6.4 percent.

 CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +1.0

COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: JC Penney
TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.3
CHANGE: +3.7
CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +2.3

COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: TJX+
TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.1
CHANGE: +6.0
CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +1.0

COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Kohl's
TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.8
CHANGE: +14.9
CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +3.4

COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Limited Brands**
TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.6
CHANGE: +4.0
CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +5.0

COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Nordstrom
TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.5
CHANGE: +7.2
CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +4.9

COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Saks
TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.4
CHANGE: -17.2
CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: -6.4

*Figure includes May Dept. Stores
**Figures exclude Galyan's and Limited Too
+Includes Marshalls

(Source by Goldman Sachs & Company, based on company reports.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retail Sales in February''Graph shows GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEXYear-to-year changes based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.SALES RESULTSData are for the four weeks ended Feb. 25, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Wal-Mart 4 weeks to Feb. 24TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 19.7CHANGE: +9.7%CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +3.2%COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Costco 4 weeks to Feb. 26TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 4.2CHANGE: +11.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +8.0COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: TargetTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 3.7CHANGE: +10.5CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +3.6COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: GapTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.9CHANGE: -6.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: -11.0COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Federated 4 weeks to Feb. 26TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.8CHANGE: +64.1*

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (92%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); SAME STORE SALES (91%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); HEATING OIL (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%) United States Economy; Company Reports ; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Housing ; United States Economy; Retail Stores and Trade; Apparel; Sales; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Heating Oil ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); TARGET CORP (95%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (93%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (91%); KOHL'S CORP (83%); SAM'S CLUB (68%); MACY'S INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Sam's Club (Warehouse Stores); Target Corp; Kohl's Corp; Costco Wholesale Corp; Gap Inc; Banana Republic ; Old Navy; Limited Brands; Abercrombie & Fitch; Federated Department Stores Inc ; Penney, J C, Co Inc; Saks Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); TGT (NYSE) (95%); ANF (NYSE) (93%); AFT (FRA) (93%); COST (NASDAQ) (91%); KSS (NYSE) (83%); M (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (95%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (91%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



47 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Executives See U.S. Link as Crucial in India's Growth

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, March 2 

 BODY:
Overshadowed in the discussion over a nuclear agreement between the United States and India is a different sort of pact -- the one between corporate leaders of the two countries. 
 Chief executives of 5 American corporations and 10 Indian companies presented a report to President Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday morning in New Delhi on ways to improve investment and commercial links.
As the president and prime minister shared the end of a long table -- Indian executives on one side; Americans, including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, on the other -- the discussion ranged over trade concerns: a need to dismantle Indian commercial barriers, the development of basic infrastructure, a strengthening of intellectual property rights and the building of special economic zones to foster joint ventures with American companies. 
 India is becoming a strong base for software development and the outsourcing of services and manufacturing. But the executives concluded in their report that greater United States investment could help the further development of India's infrastructure, and more American technical expertise could help upgrade its low-cost manufacturing. 
 Nandan M. Nilekani, chief executive of Infosys Technologies, one of India's largest outsourcing companies, who participated Thursday, said, "The C.E.O. Forum was an initiative suggested by President Bush and an acknowledgment that Indian and U.S. businesses are catalysts for a close relationship between the two countries." He was joined in the discussion by, among others, Ratan Tata and Mukesh Ambani, the heads of the Tata and Reliance industrial conglomerates. 
 In October, when Cisco Systems said it would invest $1.16 billion in India, tripling its work force here, companies like Intel and Microsoft swiftly followed with commitments of their own.
 John Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco, the world's largest computer networking manufacturer, has said that India has the potential to become its biggest market in Asia in five years. 
 With 8.1 percent growth expected this fiscal year, India's thriving economy is lifting millions from poverty and Western companies have been quick in trying to pry open the market. More than 600 million Indians of a population around 1.1 billion are under 25, and half of those under 15. 
 ''Their rapidly growing buying power presents a massive market for American goods and services,'' Ron Somers, president of the United States-India Business Council, based in Washington. By some accounts, the two countries are on track to double trade, to $50 billion, in the next three years. 
 For many companies like Cisco, India's potential as a market began only in the last couple of years. But with Indian businesses expanding rapidly, the need for technology has grown. Cisco's revenue in India surged by more than 50 percent in two years. 
 For Cisco, India's highly qualified labor pool makes it an important research base, as well as a center for software development and back-office services. Ranganath Salgame, president of Cisco Systems India, said the country's economy ''is not a one- or two-year blip in the growth cycle like some other emerging markets.'' Instead, he said, India has changed. 
 ''From a promise waiting to happen,'' Mr. Salgame said, ''India is finally happening.''
 Other American companies are excited too, including Coca-Cola, Nike, Dell and Boeing. In December, Boeing trumped its European rival, Airbus, to win a 68-plane order from Air India worth $11 billion.
 Thomas R. Pickering, Boeing's senior vice president for international relations and formerly a senior American diplomat, said: ''India is in great shape. It represents one of the most important long-term markets for Boeing.'' 
 To be sure, India's economic rise has been upstaged to some extent by the phenomenal growth of China. Since India began to open its economy in 1991, foreign direct investment has totaled $60 billion -- the same amount that China took in just last year. 
 But roads, airports, power supplies, ports and clean water in India are still woefully inadequate; the United States-India Business Council estimates that meeting those needs will require $1 trillion in investment, a good part of that from overseas.
 Businesses also face mind-numbing red tape, frequent job-hopping and some of the fastest-rising pay rates in the world. Certain industries, notably retailing, remain largely closed to foreigners because the government fears that small entrepreneurs might be wiped out.
 Still, the market for American companies is growing. Yum Brands, which owns the Pizza Hut and KFC chicken chains, runs 130 Pizza Hut outlets in 31 Indian cities and is riding the country's wave of consumption.
 ''We are growing at 35 percent in the last three years,'' said Sandeep Kohli, managing director, Indian subcontinent, for Yum Restaurants, ''and the potential is so vast that we expect to continue growing at this rate for several years.'' 
 Consumers like Sharille Rod-rigues, 20, a call-center employee here in Bangalore, are at the heart of that growth. Ms. Rodrigues, who has been a technician at an American company, said she loves Mars chocolate, drinks Pepsi-Cola, eats at KFC, uses L'Oreal shampoo, and wears Revlon and Maybelline makeup and Nike shoes. She says she enjoys shopping with her Citibank credit card. 
 Does she buy Indian brands? Ms. Rodrigues pauses and then confesses, ''Actually, no, not that many.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Chambers, left, Cisco Systems' chief, with India's information technology minister, Dayanidhi Maran, after an agreement last fall. (Photo by Sondeep Shankar/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (68%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (53%) International Trade and World Market; Copyrights; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (83%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (69%); INTEL CORP (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (83%); INFY (NYSE) (83%); INFY (NSE) (83%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (69%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); MANMOHAN SINGH (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); RATAN TATA (58%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (57%); MUKESH AMBANI (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; Manmohan (Prime Min) Singh; Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (97%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



48 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Again Lift Rates And Hint at More Increases

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 2 

 BODY:
With Europe seemingly on firm economic footing, the European Central Bank on Thursday raised interest rates for the second time in three months and signaled more increases to come.
 The decision, which had been widely expected, lifted the bank's benchmark rate by a quarter-point, to 2.5 percent -- a level that its president, Jean-Claude Trichet, noted was still ''very low.''
Pointing to the bank's new growth forecasts, which were revised upward from December, Mr. Trichet sounded confident that European economies were shaking off their long economic slumber. Rising oil prices, though, have pushed up inflation, which Mr. Trichet said warranted tighter credit. 
 ''The decision reflects the upside risks to price stability,'' he said at a news conference in Frankfurt, adding later, ''We did not decide today, ex ante, on a series of monthly rate increases.''
 Those words were a deliberate echo of Mr. Trichet's guarded tone in December, when the bank raised rates for the first time in five years. By giving little hint of the timing of the next increase, Mr. Trichet has left the bank's 18-member governing council a degree of flexibility.
 The euro rose against the dollar Thursday, settling at $1.2033 in New York, up from $1.1915 late Tuesday, as currency markets reflected the likelihood of tighter monetary policy. Economists generally expect the bank to act again in June, and nothing Mr. Trichet said threw that into doubt.
 ''He implicitly admitted that they have a bias for a tighter policy,'' said Thomas Mayer, chief European economist at Deutsche Bank. ''They believe that rates are very low and need to be higher.''
 With the bank's decision so widely expected, much of the attention on Thursday focused on whether Mr. Trichet would wade into the debate in Europe over the resurgence of protectionism and nationalism in France and Spain, in the wake of several cross-border takeover attempts.
 ''We are expecting all the rules of the European single market to be respected,'' Mr. Trichet said.
 But he said the bank's board did not discuss the French government's plan to fend off an Italian takeover of the French utility Suez, or Spain's effort to thwart a German takeover of its utility Endesa.
 The bank's disciplined tone did not insulate it from criticism by some European politicians, who fear that tightening credit even slightly will choke off a fragile economic recovery on the Continent.
 Italy's deputy trade minister, Adolfo Urso, said the rate increase was a mistake that would hurt exports. Italy's economy is one of the slowest-growing in Europe, largely because Italian exports have become less competitive.
 ''There is a serious problem'' with growth, Mr. Urso said in a statement, ''and hiking the cost of money takes oxygen from the recovery.''
 Yet others noted that the bank's forecasts would suggest a bolder upward move on rates. Its revised projections, for example, foresee inflation running solidly above 2 percent this year and in 2007. The bank's cardinal goal is to keep inflation at or below the 2 percent threshold.
 ''The way the data are shaping up, they might consider slightly speeding up the pace of tightening,'' said Elga Bartsch, an economist at Morgan Stanley. ''The situation today is different than in December.''
 At the end of last year, Europe was balanced between hope and foreboding. The underlying economic omens were positive and the optimism of business people was soaring. But weak Christmas sales in Germany and elsewhere kindled fears that economic weakness could easily relapse.
 Those fears have largely dissipated. Retail sales in Germany jumped 2.7 percent in January, while orders for machinery surged. Economists now say that corporate optimism was not a fluke.
 ''As long as the data point to an ongoing economic recovery, they should feel comfortable about normalizing rates,'' Ms. Bartsch said. ''If anything, the survey numbers are more robust than before.''
 Economists hold different views of what constitutes a normal level for short-term interest rates, but it tends to be in the range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent. That would imply at least one further increase this year, and more likely two.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, discussing move at a briefing in Frankfurt. (Photo by Bernd Kammerer/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); TAKEOVERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%) Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Central Bank; European Union

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (92%) Jean-Claude Trichet; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); SPAIN (92%); ITALY (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



49 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Plan for New Security Reviews

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and HEATHER TIMMONS; Carl Hulse reported from Washington for this article, and Heather Timmons from London. Leslie Wayne contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 2 

 BODY:
Lawmakers promised on Thursday to change the way the government reviews the foreign acquisitions of companies with national security significance, saying the furor surrounding a Dubai company's effort to take over some major American port terminals was proof that the existing system had broken down.
 House and Senate members, saying they were blindsided by the proposal, said the mishandling of the transaction and the disclosure of other sales under review were stark evidence that Congress needed to play a greater role. They called for a new approach in the post-Sept. 11 environment and said commercial benefits had to be weighed against the threat of terrorism. 
''While I strongly support our investment policy and recognize that it is vital to our national economic interests, I do not believe it should stand at any cost,'' said Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican who leads the Senate Banking Committee. ''Everything in this country can't be for sale.''
 In the House, Representative Duncan Hunter, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said he would introduce a bill to force foreign governments to relinquish ownership of critical installations. 
 Mr. Hunter said Dubai's record on handling nuclear materials and other weaponry disqualified it from having one of its state-owned businesses operating port terminals. 
 ''Their track record is terrifying,'' he said.
 Other lawmakers said the disclosure that the administration had begun a security review of a proposal by another Dubai company to buy a British manufacturer of precision tank and aircraft parts in Georgia and Connecticut increased doubts. 
 At a Senate Banking Committee hearing, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, pressed administration officials to explain why the sale of the company, the Doncasters Group Ltd., merited a close review while the port deal covering a potentially greater vulnerability did not. ''It just doesn't add up,'' Mr. Schumer said.
 Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert M. Kimmitt said unresolved security questions on the Doncasters purchase by Dubai International Capital had led an administration committee to require an extended 45-day review. Mr. Kimmitt said he could not publicly discuss what prompted the review, which The Washington Post reported on Thursday. Many lawmakers said they were unaware of the new review before that report. 
 Mr. Kimmitt conceded that it was likely that changes were in store for the rules on reviews by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States.
 ''We clearly have to do some things inside the departments, and we clearly have to do quite a bit in finding ways to provide you more promptly with the information you need,'' he said. 
 Doncasters is being bought as the Pentagon increasingly depends on foreigners for critical military supplies, even in Iraq, and when the line between domestic and foreign military contractors is increasingly blurring. Multimillion-dollar Pentagon contracts have been given to dozens of countries, among them Israel, Kuwait, Qatar and Saudi Arabia in the Mideast. Companies in allied countries like England, France and Germany are competing with American contractors for a larger piece of the Pentagon budget, which has exceeded $400 billion in recent years.
 The scrutiny of the Dubai transactions is partly product of the aggressive acquisition posture of state-owned companies from the United Arab Emirates. U.A.E. companies have swallowed up more than 40 foreign companies since the beginning of 2005. Several of those acquisitions have United States operations, according to data from Thomson Financial. 
 Among them are a British shipping services company with operations in more than 20 United States ports and a freight company that flies cargo into eight United States airports. 
 That Dubai, which is seeking to spin its limited oil resources into the creation of a worldwide shipping and financial center, has already completed transportation-related deals in the United States should be no surprise, some experts say. 
 ''This has been a long-term strategy for Dubai, which is based around turning its domestic and regional operations into international operations,'' said Simon Williams, a senior economist with Economist Intelligence Unit in London who specializes in the Mideast. ''I can't really believe'' that the United States will look retroactively at all the Dubai deals, Mr. Williams added.
 In early January, a Dubai investment company, Istithmar, Arabic for ''investment,'' said it would buy Inchcape Shipping Services, a British ship agency company that operates in more than 20 ports in the United States, including Baltimore, New York-New Jersey and Long Beach, Calif. Istithmar paid $285 million for Inchcape.
 In December, Etihad Airways bought Cargolux Airlines International, a Luxembourg-based freight company that flies in and out of eight United States airports, including New York. 
 Etihad, Arabic for ''united,'' is the national airlines of the United Arab Emirates. It was started in 2003 by Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan, then crown prince of Abu Dhabi. 
 Dubai has been an avid investor also in other industries that have United States ties. Last June, an investor group from the United Arab Emirates bought Borealis, a Danish specialty plastics manufacturer of medical packaging, automotive components and insulation that has plants in the United States
 Dubai officials have played down concerns about the review of their deals. Some financial advisers and analysts say companies from the Emirates may try to avoid doing business in the United States. In confirming that it was participating in the 45-day Doncasters review, Dubai International Capital said in a statement it was ''pursuing all of the proper U.S. regulatory approvals.''
 ''It remains confident of obtaining those approvals and closing the transaction as originally envisioned,'' the statement said.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 3 about plans to change the way lawmakers review foreign acquisitions of companies with national security significance misstated the relationship between Etihad Airways and Cargolux Airlines International, a freight carrier that uses United States airports. While Etihad, the national airline of the United Arab Emirates, approached Cargolux in December about buying a stake, no deal has been reached.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Scavone, DP World executive, at House hearing yesterday. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%) Ships and Shipping ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Terrorism; Ports; Foreign Investments; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: DONCASTERS GROUP LTD (82%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Dubai Ports World; Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (82%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (82%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: DUNCAN HUNTER (70%); JOHN J DUNCAN JR (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%) Robert Scarone; Carl Hulse; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



50 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: All Politics Of the Mideast Is Local

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to politics, New York is a six-borough city. Borough No. 6 is what the rest of the world calls the Middle East, specifically Israel and the Palestinian territories. What happens there has a remarkable way of reverberating here.
 Just ask Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. Her 2000 election campaign nearly ran off the rails when she gave Yasir Arafat's wife, Suha, a peck on the cheek after Mrs. Arafat made a virulent attack on Israel. 
When Edward I. Koch was mayor, he had his own foreign policy for the Middle East; now and then, it came close to resembling United States government positions. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani went so far as to make himself the city's Bouncer-in-Chief, tossing Mr. Arafat out of a city-sponsored concert for dignitaries gathered to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the United Nations.
 Over the years, little has changed. The sixth borough continues to roil New York politics.
 Middle Eastern shadows have fallen across two huge expansion projects: at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan and at the Silvercup Studios in Long Island City, Queens. In both cases, the lead architect is Richard Rogers, of Britain, formally known as Baron Rogers of Riverside (a fitting title, some might say, for a man hoping to work along the Hudson and East Rivers).
 Without a doubt, Lord Rogers is eminent in his field. But he is also not without controversy.
 Early last month, he was host in London to 60 members of Architects and Planners for Justice in Palestine, a group that, as its name suggests, does not take kindly to Israel. Indeed, it vehemently denounced the concrete barrier that the Israelis have built through the West Bank and along its periphery -- a barrier that Israel describes as essential to fight terrorism but that critics view as keeping some Palestinian towns in a virtual lockdown.
 To the architects in London, it is ''an apartheid system of control.'' Some said they were considering an economic boycott of Israel's construction industry and a possible call to expel Israeli architects from the International Union of Architects. The group met at Lord Rogers's London office not once but three times, The Independent of London has reported. As word of those meetings emerged this week, some New York officials reacted. The state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, was poised, a spokesman said, to send a letter to the governor and his lieutenants reminding them that taking part in an anti-Israel boycott is illegal under New York law.
 In short order, Lord Rogers backpedaled faster than a circus performer. ''My convictions on peace and justice have always been clear,'' he said in a statement on Wednesday. But given the boycott suggestions, he said, ''I am dissociating myself from this organization.''
 That he was worried became more obvious yesterday. He hired Howard J. Rubenstein, New York's preferred public-relations executive for those in hot water. Through Mr. Rubenstein, the baron issued a second statement. ''I abhor boycotts of any kind -- Israel or any other place,'' he said. ''It's not the way to achieve peace.''
 END of story?
 It would seem so, said the Empire State Development Corporation, the state agency that gave Lord Rogers the Javits contract. Indeed, said the baron's New York partner company, FXFowle. But perhaps the final chapter has not been written.
 Silvercup Studios issued its own statement yesterday, calling on Lord Rogers to go beyond what he has said thus far and to ''unequivocally renounce the group and its mission.'' Helen M. Marshall, the Queens borough president, agreed that the baron had to ''go further and disavow himself from that group.'' City Councilman David I. Weprin of Queens, said he, too, wanted to hear more.
 No one spoke more forcefully than Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, who invoked the memory of the late Senator Javits, a firm supporter of Israel. Lord Rogers's involvement in the boycott discussions was hardly peripheral, Mr. Silver said. As for state officials, their ''lack of accountability for what his actions have already suggested is nothing short of shameful.''
 So who knows? If this dispute gets really hot, maybe the five boroughs will not become this Mr. Rogers's neighborhood. At issue, after all, is the sixth borough -- where anything can happen, and often does.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); BRITISH MONARCHS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (71%); TERRORISM (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (50%) Boycotts; Motion Pictures; Conventions and Conferences; Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (NYC); Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%) Silvercup Studios; Architects and Planners for Justice in Palestine (Orgn)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Clyde Haberman; Richard (Lord Rogers) Rogers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Israel; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006



51 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Pakistan Welcomes Bush With Security and Protest
President Bush arrived in Pakistan to a capital under extraordinary security as recent protests over the cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad first published in a Danish newspaper have been increasingly redirected at Mr. Bush and the pro-American policies of Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf. A1

Before leaving for Pakistan, President Bush finished his visit to India with a speech praising the new warmth in Indian-American relations, and urged Americans to welcome rather than fear India as an economic competitor. 
 A5

Russia Warns Hamas on Israel
Russia warned the leaders of Hamas, in Moscow on a high-profile visit, that the organization had to recognize Israel and dismantle its militias or face isolation. The Hamas leaders reiterated that the group would not moderate its positions. A6

Six weeks after Hamas's win in the Palestinian parliamentary elections, American and European officials say they are beginning to give up hope that the threat to cut off financial support will prompt it to moderate its positions, leaving the West with a dilemma. A7

Shiite Imams Defend Jaafari
Shiite imams at Friday Prayer services across Iraq lashed out at the country's Kurdish, Sunni Arab and secular political leaders, who are mounting an effort to prevent Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari, a Shiite, from retaining his post in the new government. A3

Iran Nuclear Talks Stall
Renewed talks over Iran's nuclear program failed to produce an agreement after Iran rejected Europe's demand that it stop making enriched uranium. The talks had been called by Iran with promises of new ideas on how to break the impasse. A5

U.N. Vote Isolates U.S.
The United States has found itself isolated in its opposition to a proposal to replace the discredited Human Rights Commission, and its pledge to vote against adoption of the plan has thrown the United Nations into turmoil. A4

NATIONAL A8-10, 14

Former Congressman Gets 8 Years for Bribes
After acknowledging that he had ''made a very wrong turn,'' former Representative Randy Cunningham was sentenced in federal court in San Diego to 8 years and 4 months in prison for taking $2.4 million in bribes from defense contractors in return for smoothing the way for government contracts. A1

City Clerk Joins Mayoral Race
After a week on the lam, the New Orleans Parish Clerk of Criminal Court showed up in court to answer a summons for failure to relinquish some of her duties, only to announce that she was quitting her job -- so that she could run for mayor. A9

Names of Detainees Released
After four years of secrecy, the Pentagon handed over documents that contain the names of detainees held at the American military prison at Guantanamo Bay. A9

Bush Budget to Increase Deficit
President Bush's budget proposals would increase the federal deficit by $35 billion this year and by more than $1.2 trillion over the next decade, the Congressional Budget Office reported. A14

EDUCATION

Vermont Schools in Jeopardy
Vermont public schools have lost three-quarters of their children since 2000, and with the lowest birth rate in the country and the highest rate of students attending college elsewhere, Vermont's governor is treating the situation like a crisis. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

F.D.A. Lags in Drug Follow-Up
When it approves new drugs for sale, the Food and Drug Administration often requires their manufacturers to study whether they are working as intended and whether they have unwanted side effects, but the agency reported that two-thirds of the studies had not even been started. A8

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Lawyer Battles Cancer A Year After Conviction
Lynne F. Stewart, a defense lawyer who was convicted of aiding terrorists almost a year ago clarified the mystery of her delayed sentencing: she is recovering from breast cancer surgery and is about to embark on radiation therapy. B1

Hands-On Criminology
Students at John Jay College of Criminal Justice on the West Side of Manhattan are spending their study time not poring over books and fictional cases, but trying to solve the real-life murder of a beloved classmate whose body was dumped in a desolate stretch of Brooklyn after she had been strangled and suffocated. B1

Mayor Knew of Labor Inquiry
City officials acknowledged that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg knew of an investigation involving Brian M. McLaughlin, the labor leader whose group became a key backer of the mayor's re-election campaign, raising questions about his political alliance with someone under scrutiny by a city agency. B1

FASHION B7

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES A11

Henry M. Morris
The author known as the father of modern creationism, he was 87. A11

ARTS B9-18

Film About Cannibal Banned
For more than three years, the man known as the Cannibal of Rotenburg has held Germans in grisly thrall, with his lurid tale of killing and eating a willing victim he found through the Internet. Now, as Armin Meiwes stands trial for a second time on murder charges, he has persuaded a German court to ban a horror film based on the notorious case. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

BlackBerrys to Stay On
Just days before a judge was expected to issue an injunction shutting down BlackBerry service for 3.2 million users, NTP has dropped its patent infringement lawsuit against Research In Motion in exchange for a $612.5 million payment. C1

Real Estate Standoff
While many home buyers are convinced that prices will fall and refuse to offer the asking prices, just as many sellers are biding their time until bids improve, resulting in a standoff with prices continuing to rise but with a growing number of houses for sale. A1

Next-Day Pill at Wal-Mart
Relenting to pressure from state government officials, Wal-Mart Stores said yesterday that it would begin carrying Plan B, a contraception pill, in all of its United States stores by the end of the month, but that it would allow pharmacists who object to filling the prescription to refer customers to another pharmacist or pharmacy. C4

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Underwriting Hamas; the mayor speaks his mind; new strategy on clean air; Lawrence Downes on the return of ''The Electric Company.''

Column: John Tierney.

Bridge B17
Crossword B12
TV Listings B18
Weather C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); HAMAS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); LITIGATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MAYORS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); BRIBERY (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SENTENCING (65%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); DENMARK (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



52 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Services Expansion Picks Up, Study Says

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Service industries expanded at a faster rate in February than Wall Street economists had expected, a research group said yesterday. 
 But consumer sentiment fell more than expected, another group said.
The services group, the Institute for Supply Management, said its nonmanufacturing index rose to 60.1 in February from 56.8 in January. Wall Street economists forecast a reading of 59. The index, which covers a wide range of businesses like banking, restaurants and insurance, is based on a survey of business executives. 
 A reading above 50 indicates expansion; below 50 shows contraction. 
 The report suggests that economic activity in the first quarter is robust, said Carl Riccadonna, an economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. 
 The institute said its new-orders index rose to 56.2 from 56 and its employment index rose to 58.2 from 51.1. Its prices index fell to 64.8 from 67.2. 
 Separately, the University of Michigan's final report on consumer sentiment fell to 86.7 in February from 91.2 at the end of January. 
 Economists had expected a decline to 88 in February. 
 The university's current-conditions index fell to 105.6 at the end of February compared with 110.3 in January. The expectations index fell to 74.5 in February from 78.9. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RESTAURANTS (74%); NEW ORDERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%) United States Economy; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hiring and Promotion; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%) University of Michigan; Institute for Supply Management

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



53 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Times Are Good, Except Where They Aren't 

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
PEOPLE may not fully accept it, but the economy is growing, both in the United States and around the world. Some central bankers say it is growing too quickly. European governments apparently think that market forces are getting out of control and are acting to slow them down.
 Good times are rarely evenly shared, however, as many airline and automobile workers learned -- again -- this week.

GOOD NEWS, BAD NEWS -- Just like the weather, the economy is blowing hot and cold. 
 A particularly warm January in the Northeast encouraged people to shop, so personal spending rose 0.9 percent in the month. But incomes did not grow as fast, so Americans dipped further into their savings. That continues the trend of last year, when spending outpaced savings every month for the first time since 1933, amid the Depression.
The median price of new houses rose to $238,100 in January, a 6.7 percent gain from the month a year ago. But the number of new homes sold fell to its lowest level in a year, and the inventory of unsold homes on the market increased, suggesting the housing market is cooling.
 Based on statistics measuring economic expansion and industrial production, economists said the country was prospering. But many consumers disagree. The Conference Board, a private research group, said its consumer confidence index fell to 101.7 in February from 106.8 a month earlier, mainly because people were less optimistic about the economy, especially the job market.
 The government is scheduled to release updated statistics on the unemployment rate, job creation and hourly wages on Friday.

TAPPING THE BRAKES -- Europe's economies are growing fast enough to persuade the European Central Bank to raise interest rates for the second time in three months. The increase, by a quarter percentage point, to 2.5 percent, was expected, but the bank's hawkish talk about inflation was a surprise, causing bond markets to fall.
 The European bank's previous rate increase, in December, was its first in five years. It came amid fears that rising oil prices would cause inflation to accelerate. Oil prices have since moderated, but inflation concerns remain because retail sales are growing, orders for machinery are rising and business-confidence indexes suggest a decided optimism about the future.
 The Bank of Japan, which sets short-term rates, is scheduled to meet on Wednesday, and economists say they expect that it will also raise rates as the economy there shows increasing strength.

WHITE-KNUCkLE NEGOTIATORS -- Contract talks between one of the nation's biggest airlines and its pilots' union went into overtime as the company, Northwest, and its employees wrestled over how drastically the pilots' pay will be cut.
 Northwest is operating under bankruptcy court protection as it tries to reorganize its finances and reduce its costs so it can better compete with low-cost, low-fare rivals. It could use that protection to impose salary cuts, but the pilots have threatened to strike if that happens. Both sides have said a strike will probably kill the airline.
 Northwest was first able to reach a deal with flight attendants, who agreed to $195 million in annual savings. Northwest pilots later agreed to a $358 million annual pay cut. In 2004, the pilots agreed to about $250 million in annual concessions. Then in November, they approved a temporary annual cut of $215 million. Northwest pushed to increase the size of that second pay cut to $358 million, as part of $1.4 billion in labor cost reductions.
 Delta Air Lines, another big carrier operating under bankruptcy court protection, is also negotiating with its unions. It faces a March 13 deadline to reach an agreement or risk having a bankruptcy court judge impose a settlement.

ON SECOND THOUGHT -- A unified economy is one thing, but there are apparently limits on how much unity European governments are willing to tolerate.
 France, for example, brokered a takeover of a huge privately owned water and power utility, Suez, by a much smaller state-run natural gas utility, Gaz de France, for $46 billion in cash and stock. The hastily arranged deal frustrated an attempt by Enel, Italy's biggest power company, to buy Suez.
 In Spain, the government approved a decree that allows regulators to prevent foreign companies from taking over Spanish energy companies. It passed the decree after E.On, a German power company, offered about $35 billion to buy the giant Spanish utility Endesa. At the time, another Spanish utility, Gas Natural, was offering $28 billion for Endesa.
 European Union regulators are reviewing both governments' actions, which critics say violate the union's rules assuring an open market in all member countries. A decision is expected soon.

WASTING AWAY -- Americans bought more cars last month than they did a year ago, but they bought fewer American cars. General Motors, Ford and the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler all said that their sales slipped in February, while Honda, Toyota and other foreign-owned companies posted gains.
 G.M. slipped to 23.4 percent of the American market, from 24.2 percent a year earlier. Ford's share declined to 18.2 percent from 18.9 percent . 
 Both G.M. and Ford will make fewer cars in the second quarter this year than they did in the 2005 period. G.M. will cut production by 3.7 percent, Ford by 1.8 percent.

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most-viewed business news articles on nytimes.com from Feb. 25 through March 3:
1. Cyberthieves Silently Copy Your Pass-words as You Type
2. David Pogue: Apple Laptop Has Looks and Brains
3. For Ken Lay, Enron's Riches Turning to Ruin
4. A Year Abroad (or 3) as a Career Move
5. He Helped Build the iPod; Now He Has Built a Rival



GRAPHIC: Photo: Americans bought more cars last month than they did a year ago, but they bought fewer American cars, like these models at a Dodge dealership in Mobile, Ala. (Photo by Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); BONDS (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); EURO (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); RETAIL SALES (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) United States Economy; Housing; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Stocks and Bonds; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Airlines and Airplanes; Pilots; United States Economy; Strikes; Labor; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Electric Light and Power; United States Economy; Automobiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Consumer Behavior; Credit; Wages and Salaries; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Income; United States Economy; Gas (Fuel); Organized Labor; Sales

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Northwest Airlines; European Union; Suez; Gaz De France; E.on Ag; Endesa Sa; Gas Natural Sa

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Mark Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (59%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%) Europe; France; Spain; Germany; France

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



54 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: By Most Measures, a Housing Boom for the Ages

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE great American housing boom is coming to an end, according to virtually every commentator. But if that is true -- and by no means do the statistics yet prove it -- it has been a phenomenal rise. Never in the last quarter-century has the United States experienced two years in which real home prices rose as much as in 2004 and 2005. 
 Perhaps the best measure of home prices in the United States is managed by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, known as Ofheo to its friends. Using data gathered from mortgages involving Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae, which Ofheo regulates, it compares sale prices of houses with the price the last time that house was sold. When mortgages are refinanced, it also obtains data on the new appraisal, and puts that into its index.
This week Ofheo released its data for the fourth quarter of 2005. To get the real annual growth shown in the accompanying chart and tables, inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index was subtracted. Last year's real gain was 9.6 percent, a record but not much more than the 9.4 percent gain in 2004. 
 A measure of how extraordinary these times have been is that the average annual real gain in the Bush administration is 7 percent. Jimmy Carter's administration posted an annual rise of 1.7 percent, and no subsequent president until this one showed gains that large. It might, however, be more accurate to say that the Federal Reserve's policy of very low interest rates had more to do with the boom.
 Averages can hide a lot of diversity. The index shows that Arizona home prices rose 31.5 percent more than inflation in 2005, while in Michigan, home of the depressed auto industry, the rise was just 0.4 percent above inflation. 
 In every year from 1976 to 2000, at least one state had home prices decline or rise less than the inflation rate. Utah suffered that fate in 2002 and 2003, but no other state has had that happen since Mr. Bush took office.
 Over the last 30 years, home prices in the United States have risen 1.8 percent a year over the inflation rate. But in six states, real prices fell over that period -- Mississippi, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, North Dakota and Nebraska. The best showing came from California, where prices rose a real 4.6 percent a year.
 Home prices to a significant extent reflect the strength of the local economy. As government has grown during the Bush administration, prices rose in the District of Columbia more than in any state. Maryland and Virginia, where many Washington workers live in suburbs, are in the top 10.
 People say they love rising home prices, but they do not seem to show it at the ballot box. States that did better than the national average during the Clinton administration voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Bush in 2004. But those that have done the best in the Bush administration gave most of their 2004 votes to his opponent, Senator John Kerry.
 Ohio is one of a handful of states where real home prices rose at a faster rate under President Clinton than they have under President Bush, and it has trailed all states but one since Mr. Bush took office. But it was Ohio that provided Mr. Bush's margin of victory in 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Record Increases In Real Home Prices''Graph tracks average annual change in real home prices, by president:Carter: +1.7%Reagan: +0.8G.H.W. Bush: -1.7Clinton: +1.4G.W. Bush: +7.0Graph tracks percent change in U.S. home prices, adjusted for inflation from 1976-2005.AREAS WITH HIGHEST AND LOWEST AVERAGE ANNUAL INCREASES IN HOME PRICES, ADJUSTED FOR INFLATIONIn 2005 (U.S average: 9.6%)Top 5Arizona: 31.5%Florida: 23.4Hawaii: 20.5Dist. of Columbia: 18.6Maryland: 18.1Bottom 5Kansas: 1.3%Indiana: 1.3Nebraska: 0.9Ohio: 0.6Michigan: 0.430-year average, 1976-2005 (U.S. Average: 1.8%)Top 5California: 4.6%Dist. of Columbia: 3.8Massachusetts: 3.8New Jersey: 3.2Washington: 3.2Bottom 5North Dakota: -0.1%Kansas: -0.1Oklahoma: -0.3Texas: -0.3Mississippi: -0.3Clinton administration (U.S. Average: 1.4%)Top 5Colorado: 5.8%Utah: 4.7Michigan: 3.9Oregon: 3.7Minnesota: 3.6Bottom 5Connecticut: -0.4%Delaware: -0.5Pennsylvania: -0.5Maryland: -0.6Hawaii: -3.9Current Bush administration (U.S. Average: 7.0%)Top 5Dist. of Columbia: 15.3%California: 14.2Hawaii: 13.4Florida: 13.1Nevada: 12.7Bottom 5Texas: 1.8%Michigan: 1.8Nebraska: 1.6Ohio: 1.5Indiana: 1.3(Sources by U.S. Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); RANKINGS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



55 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Gladwell vs. Gladwell 

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL. 
E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SIX years ago in the Washington Monthly, Malcolm Gladwell faced off against Adam Gopnik, his fellow New Yorker writer, in a debate over Canada's single-payer health care system. Mr. Gopnik favored it; Mr. Gladwell opposed it vigorously. ''Canada has achieved a wonderful thing, which is universal health care coverage,'' he said then. ''But it has achieved it at a price, and that is quality of care.''
 On the blog he started last week (gladwell.typepad.com), Mr. Gladwell noted that the blogosphere has, for some mysterious reason, picked up on the debate. ''But wait!'' he wrote. ''That was six years ago! I've now changed my mind. I now agree with virtually everything Adam said and disagree with virtually everything I said. In fact, I shudder when I read what I said back then.'' 
In 2000, Mr. Gladwell recalled a bicycle accident he had at 16 in Ontario. ''I ran off the road and I basically impaled my eye on a stick,'' he says. It took 9 days and a 120-mile trip to Toronto for him to get a CAT scan. The doctor declared that he ''clearly suffered irreversible brain damage.'' His recovery, he said, was due more to luck than to the care he received.
 In the United States then, CAT scan equipment proliferated. In Canada, it was rare. The United States is where medical discoveries are made. Countries like Canada don't make discoveries, they only benefit from those made in the United States. So argued Mr. Gladwell in 2000.
 And now? By 2005, in a New Yorker article, Mr. Gladwell was arguing for health care reform with a vehemence he did not exhibit when he was on the other side of the question. One of the ''great mysteries of political life in the United States is why Americans are so devoted'' to a health care system ''of increasing complexity and dysfunction,'' he wrote.
 Why the change? ''I woke up one day,'' he wrote in his blog, ''and realized what much smarter people than me (Adam Gopnik) realized a long time ago, which is that the idea of employer-based health care is just plain stupid. And only our familiarity with it and sheer inertia prevent us from rising up in rebellion.''

ECOLOGICAL ECONOMICS -- Here's something to chew on as you head to work on Monday: ''Everything the economic system produces ultimately returns to the ecosystem as waste.''
 That idea, which puts increases in productivity into new prospective, comes from Joshua Farley, an ''ecological economist'' who was interviewed this week on WorldChanging.com. 
 As the interview makes clear, ecological economics is as complex as the phenomena it studies. But as the name hints, it puts heavy emphasis on sustainability, and it introduces factors into economic analysis that traditionalists generally ignore -- to the peril of all of us, according to Mr. Farley.
 ''The dominant economic paradigm strives for ever-increasing economic growth,'' he says. ''Not only is this impossible on a finite planet, but growing evidence suggests that beyond a certain point, more material consumption does nothing to make us better off.''
 Mr. Farley says that resource scarcity lies at the heart of his discipline. ''Some of the most important issues we face today are climate change, biodiversity loss, ozone depletion and other environmental problems that are completely ignored by market forces. Our economic system has to evolve to respond to these new scarcities.''

IS IT REAL, OR IS IT -- Sometimes, life imitates parody. National Lampoon came up with the mock heavy metal group Megadeath a good decade before the real band Megadeth was formed in 1983. ''Saturday Night Live'' ran a commercial spoof for the ''Triple-Trac'' razor 23 years before Gillette introduced the Mach 3.
 This week, a video that depicts what it might be like if Microsoft had designed the packaging for Apple's iPod made heavy rotation online. Then, Microsoft posted a promotional video for its coming mysterious portable product, Origami, that in some ways resembles the parody. So in this case, it's life imitating parody imitating life. DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); TRENDS (70%); PETS (66%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Waste Materials and Disposal; Economic Conditions and Trends; Music; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Medicine and Health; Advertising and Marketing; Containers and Packaging

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp

PERSON: Adam Gladwell; Adam Gopnik; Joshua Farley

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



56 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Rules on Hospitals Let Medicare Dollars for Less-Sick Patients Slip Away 

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
A nasty infection and dehydration landed Rose Schultz in Christ Hospital in Jersey City, but after a week she no longer needed the expensive, rigorous care of a hospital ward, and Medicare had stopped paying for it. Yet she was still weak and off-balance, in no shape to go home.
 So one day last month, an orderly wheeled Mrs. Schultz, 84, to another unit within the hospital that functions more like a nursing home, and Medicare payments resumed, a move made thousands of times a day, in hundreds of hospitals in nearly every state in the nation. Not, however, in New York.
New York is one of a few states that have not allowed hospitals to establish these quasi nursing wards, known as transitional care units, in part because of opposition from the nursing home industry, which sees the units as competition. 
 Experts say that as a result, New York hospitals have lost tens if not hundreds of millions of dollars annually in Medicare payments, even as many are bleeding cash or facing financial collapse. The absence of these transitional units is just one of many ways that New York's troubled hospital industry has been slow to embrace nationwide trends that can reduce costs and improve patient care. 
 New York's hospitals are in worse financial shape than those in any other state. Many have closed over the last three years, and many that remain open have a lot of empty beds. Patients stay in the hospital longer in New York than in any other state; length of stay is widely considered a bedrock measure of efficiency and quality of care. The average stay for Medicare patients in acute-care beds was 7.5 days in 2003 in New York and 5.8 in the nation. 
 Many hospital industry executives in New York, and the longtime chairmen of the health committees in both houses of the Legislature, said they had not heard of the transitional care units -- or the money they could bring -- until as recently as two years ago, a decade after they had become common around the country. 
 ''I honestly don't know why it didn't get on the radar screen earlier,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. ''We've become very interested, but there's still a fair amount of skepticism.''
 Many hospital officials and health care consultants argue that transitional units would be ideal for a small class of ''subacute'' patients, not as sick as the acute-care patients hospital wards are intended to treat, but sicker than most people in nursing homes.
 Nursing home officials say that the transitional units are not needed. ''It's not true that hospitals have no appropriate place to send those patients,'' said Neil J. Heyman, president of the Southern New York Association, a nursing home industry group. ''Nursing homes would take all those patients, gladly. They take subacute patients all the time.''
 Keeping patients in hospitals longer exposes them to infections and other health risks, and results in increased costs. And hospitals are often not paid for those added days.
 Medicare, the federal government program that insures 42 million elderly and disabled people, assigns a price tag to each diagnosis and course of treatment but does not pay for each day a patient remains in the hospital. In most cases, a longer patient stay does not mean more money for the hospital.
 But if that patient is transferred to a nursing home, Medicare will pay for several weeks there. And as far as Medicare is concerned, a transitional care unit -- essentially a small, high-intensity nursing home within the walls of a hospital -- is the same as a free-standing nursing home.
 On an average day, at least 1,500 Medicare patients in standard hospital wards in New York no longer need that level of attention and should be in transitional units, said Raymond D. Sweeney, executive vice president of the Healthcare Association of New York State, a major lobbying group for hospitals. ''That's a pretty conservative estimate,'' he said.
 Changes made in the Medicare law two decades ago made transitional units attractive to hospitals, and from the late 1980's to the mid-90's, many states altered their laws to allow for the units. Experts estimate that there are about 1,000 such units around the country.
 For years, New York's hospitals had no incentive to make the change because the state had a highly regulated system that guaranteed hospitals that their costs would be covered; that structure was abolished in 1997.
 In 2002, some hospitals began to call for a change in state law to allow transitional units, but for three years, indifference and opposition from nursing home owners -- some of them major campaign contributors -- quietly sidelined the idea. The major hospital lobbying groups, which also represent hundreds of nursing homes, at first stayed out of the dispute.
 Then, a commission on hospital restructuring appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki recommended the use of transitional units, and last year, the governor proposed allowing them. That prompted intense opposition from nursing-home industry groups, which hired some prominent lobbyists and spent more than $1 million on lobbying in Albany last year, nearly twice as much as they had in 2004. As a result, there was no broad legal change.
 Many experts argue that in a well-run system, transitional units do not compete significantly with nursing homes. Kathleen M. Griffin, a consultant to hospitals and nursing homes with Health Dimensions Group, a firm based in Minneapolis, said the units could save money by taking patients out of ordinary hospital wards and provide better treatment than patients would get in either those wards or in nursing homes.
 ''In many parts of the country, the hospitals are bursting at the seams, and a lot of them keep their length of stay down, so this isn't that appealing,'' she said. ''Where it makes the most sense is New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, where you've got a length-of-stay problem, and extra space.''
 The patients in transitional units are typically those called subacute, not as sick as hospital patients, but needing more intensive treatment than most people in nursing homes. They often have trouble breathing or recovering from injuries or surgery.
 Many hospital patients are discharged to nursing homes, where they recuperate before going home. But hospital officials in New York say they frequently keep patients an extra day or two because, too often, nursing homes are full -- usually above 90 percent of capacity -- or are not equipped to provide what patients need.
 Hospital officials scoff at the idea, promoted by the nursing home industry, that they willfully keep these patients, adding that nursing homes are often reluctant to take the sickest patients.
 ''Medicare pays the same for a patient, whether he stays 10 days or 5, so it's absurd to think we're trying to hang on to them when we aren't getting paid,'' said Bruce J. Flanz, executive vice president and chief operating officer of MediSys, a company that runs Jamaica and Flushing hospitals in Queens and Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center in Brooklyn. 
 Advocates of the units say they offer better care for many patients than traditional nursing homes can. ''We give blood transfusions, we have a permanent respiratory therapy unit, we have high-tech wound care like a hyperbaric chamber,'' said John C. Best, administrative director of the 21-bed transitional unit at Christ Hospital in Jersey City. ''It's very unlikely you'd find any of that in a nursing home. And here, you get seen by your doctor a lot more often.''
 If, as Mr. Sweeney estimated, 1,500 patients could be in transitional units on an average day, that would mean more than $200 million a year in additional Medicare payments to New York's hospitals. Matthew McGillick, a consultant who has worked with hospitals in several states, including New York, in advocating and setting up transitional units, says that in theory, the units could collect as much as $800 million a year from Medicare. (The units often do not turn a profit on their own, but they stem the losses from caring for patients in other wards without pay.)
 Of course, many hospitals would choose not to have them. In other states, hospitals that are small or usually full, or that manage to keep patient stays short tend to find that transitional units do not make sense for them. And the economics depend heavily on each state's rules.
 Last year, New York lawmakers approved a pilot project to allow 20-bed units in just five hospitals, essentially guaranteeing that there would be no broad change in policy for at least a few more years. Many hospitals executives remain wary of the idea and did not push hard for it; only about 20 of the state's more than 200 hospitals applied to be included in the pilot program.
 ''I think these units make a lot of sense,'' said Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried, chairman of the Assembly Health Committee. ''All that has stood in the way is the nursing home objection, and the hesitancy of the hospitals industry. It does sometimes seem to be an industry that can benefit from fresh thinking.''

 2. Utah / 4.6
 3. Idaho / 4.7
 4. Minnesota / 4.8
 5. Montana / 4.8

National average / 5.8

46. South Carolina / 6.2
 47. Delaware / 6. 6
 48. New Jersey / 7.0
 49. Hawaii / 7.3
 40. New York / 7.5

(Source by Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Long Hospital Stays''The length of time patients stay in a hospital is considered a measure of its efficiency. For Medicare patients, New York State ranks last in the length of hospital stays. Figures are for 2003.STATE AND RANK / AVERAGE STAY1. Oregon / 4.6 days

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); HOSPITALS (92%); NURSING HOMES (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); ACUTE CARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Nursing Homes; Medicare; Aged; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Richard Perez-Pena

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



57 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: A Load Of Manure

BYLINE: By Nicolette Hahn Niman. 
Nicolette Hahn Niman is a lawyer and cattle rancher.

DATELINE: Bolinas, Calif. 

 BODY:
TALK of reducing our dependence on foreign oil through alternative energy sources like biomass is everywhere these days -- even on our president's lips. As a livestock farmer and environmental lawyer, I've paid particular attention to discussion about using manure as ''green power.'' The idea sounds appealing, but power from manure turns out to be a poor source of energy. Unlike solar or wind, it can create more environmental problems than it solves. And it ends up subsidizing large agribusiness. That's why energy from manure should really be considered a form of ''brown power.''
 Manure is used mainly in methane digesters, incinerators and certain biodiesel plants. Digesters, often at dairy farms, liquefy manure, then put it in large tanks with anaerobic bacteria. As the liquid decays, the bacteria produce methane, which is purified and used like natural gas. Incinerators generate power by burning animal waste, usually from poultry. Biodiesel involves creating a gas from manure, then combining it with oil from animal fat or plants (often soybeans or corn). 
Government officials tout such projects as energy generation that benefits both nature and agriculture, and are pouring public funds into them. Few seem to question whether the projects make economic or environmental sense. And there are plenty of questions that need to be addressed. For starters, manure simply does not contain enough energy to produce cost-effective power. Studies show that manure power projects are probably not viable without large public subsidies and are likely to remain so. An analysis by researchers at the University of Minnesota's Applied Economics Department found that methane digesters are dependent on big subsidies to break even. Electrical rates would have to double to pay the full cost of digesters, says Jeff Lorimor, an Iowa State University agricultural engineering professor. Electricity from manure-burning incinerators is also much more expensive than other power, requiring federal and state subsidies to make it competitive with other sources, according to the Institute for Local Self-Reliance. 
 Part of the problem is that the digesters, incinerators and biodiesel plants are expensive to build and run. Cost and technical complexity make these manure power projects more economical when done on an industrial scale, with operations that produce vast quantities of manure. It's telling that one of the first major manure biodiesel plants in the United States will use the millions of pounds of waste produced by the 500,000 pigs at a Smithfield Foods operation in Utah.
 But even the largest projects require significant public money for construction and operation. This has also been Europe's experience with manure power projects. 
 And those subsidies tend to help factory farms. Traditional farms, which usually both grow plants and raise animals, recycle manure as organic fertilizer and thus bear the full cost of handling their waste. But large livestock operations can't do that. They put their manure -- and there is a great deal of it -- in huge piles or storage pools that often leak into nearby streams and ground water and exude stenches that make life miserable for neighbors. For them, manure isn't valuable fertilizer but a vexing disposal problem. 
 The stampede for power from manure gives these huge livestock operations a subsidized way to deal with this problem -- and even gives them an incentive to expand. An article about methane digesters in The Des Moines Register quoted a farmer saying that doubling his dairy herd allowed him to justify the expense of a digester. This could well be a typical response, with manure power projects everywhere resulting in still larger herds and flocks. 
 But as the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization noted last month, concentrated livestock operations threaten the environment and human health in a way that traditional farms do not. It is increasingly clear that traditional, smaller-scale farming is better than factory farms for people, animals and the environment. 
 Even manure power projects' immediate environmental benefits are dubious. Digesters, for example, don't make the manure disappear; instead, a manure slurry (which is sometimes larger than the original volume of manure) is left over and still has to be stored somewhere. Moreover, the slurry contains most of manure's original pollutants, researchers note. In other words, what comes out of a digester may be a bigger problem than what went in. 
 Methane digesters also fail to abate most environmental damage caused by concentrated animal operations, according to the Sierra Club. Farms with digesters still generally use large manure storage ponds, the main source of pollution problems. Incinerators, meanwhile, destroy the valuable components of manure and raise the specter of air emissions. While it's a nuisance on factory farms, manure as it is used on traditional farms greatly benefits soil fertility and tilth, increasing water-holding capacity, reducing wind erosion, improving aeration and promoting beneficial organisms. But many of these benefits are lost in burning. ''Incineration destroys the nitrogen and organic material content of manure,'' reports the Institute for Local Self-Reliance. The institute has calculated that ''an electricity plant that burns 500,000 tons of manure in effect destroys $3 million in nitrogen.'' 
 The fossil fuels involved in hauling manure must also be considered. Incinerators, especially, are centralized and bring waste from farms for miles around, and then the resulting ash must be transported to a disposal site. 
 Despite President Bush's statement that biodiesel ''is one of our nation's most promising alternative fuel sources,'' making biodiesel from manure is also unlikely to be an environmental gain. Burning biodiesel may increase a greenhouse gas, nitrogen oxide, according to the Energy Department. And the full environmental costs of biodiesel fuel include soil erosion and water pollution caused by growing the soybeans and corn used. These crops are now the leading cause of both nitrogen water pollution in the United States and soil erosion. 
 Using manure as power sounds like a good idea, but it's not. The energy that can be generated from manure is not worth the expense. And by lowering industrial animal operations' cost of production, subsidizing manure power pushes family farms further toward the brink of extinction. Our money would be better spent investing in truly sustainable, sensible ways of producing energy and food.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Headcase Design)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); BIOMASS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (90%); METHANE (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (89%); FACTORY FARMS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); FERTILIZERS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MAMMALS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); POULTRY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Electric Light and Power; Manure; Livestock; Solar Energy; Wind; Agribusiness

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (51%)

TICKER: SFD (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (51%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (51%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (51%)

PERSON: Nicolette Hahn Niman

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



58 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Hoping for Best In Home Sales, 2 Sides Sit Tight 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Along much of the East and West Coasts, home buyers and home sellers are engaged in a stare-down.
 Many buyers, having heard that the real estate market is a bubble in danger of popping, are refusing to offer the asking price on a house, convinced that it will soon drop. But many sellers are not blinking either, thinking that offers will improve when the weather does and biding their time until then.
 As a result, the housing market is now in a deeply confusing state, with average prices still rising even though homes are taking much longer to sell and the number on the market has soared. Sometime soon -- probably in the spring, the peak sales season -- one side or the other will have to capitulate, many economists and industry executives predict. 
 ''In my opinion, the jury on housing is still out,'' said Antonio B. Mon, the chief executive of Technical Olympic USA, a home builder. ''The period from now until May will tell the tale.'' 
 Many real estate agents argue that the current slowdown is merely a pause, pointing out that interest rates remain low and that Americans still seem convinced that houses are a great investment. Buyers, on the other hand, are hoping that the rising number of unsold homes is a signal that a slump is coming. It was an early sign of the last housing slump, in the early 1990's. 
 Nationwide, the number of existing homes for sale jumped 36 percent between January 2005 and January of this year, the National Association of Realtors reported Tuesday. 
 In Manhattan, 42 percent more co-ops and condominiums were available for sale at the end of last month than was the case a year ago, according to Miller Samuel, an appraisal company in New York. More Manhattan apartments were on the market in late February than at any point in at least five years.
 For now, though, average selling prices have continued to rise, even in the markets that had already experienced the biggest leaps in prices and the increases continued even in the final months of last year. Prices rose 40 percent in the Phoenix area during 2005, according to the federal government. In Manhattan, the median price of an apartment was $760,000 at the end of last year, up from $605,000 at the end of 2004.
 The latest statistics on house prices appear to be dominated by sellers who, for one reason or another, quickly received good offers. That has kept average prices rising. Builders of new homes have also offered bonuses to buyers, like enclosed sunrooms or top-of-the-line appliances. So the builders have been able to continue selling homes without cutting the list prices. 
 But many houses in the Northeast, Florida and California are, in fact, selling for less than they would have six months ago. In parts of the Northeast, the drop has been about 5 percent, estimated Robert I. Toll, chief executive of Toll Brothers, the biggest luxury home builder in the country. Other sellers have cut their price and still not found a buyer.
 In Buxton, Me., a suburb of Portland, Geof and Cheri Toner put their three-bedroom Cape Cod-style house on the market for $379,900 late last year, shortly before moving to Raleigh, N.C., for Mr. Toner's job. They have received only one offer -- for $350,000, which they rejected -- and recently reduced the price to $374,900. 
 Mr. Toner said he assumed that more buyers would look at the property as the weather warmed up. In the spring, they would not have to wonder whether snow covered up flaws in the lawn or the roof. He expects that the eventual buyer will be a transplant from elsewhere in New England who is willing to pay significantly more than $350,000. 
 ''We're not panicking over it,'' said Mr. Toner, 48, the regional sales manager of a video equipment maker. ''It's just a matter of sitting it out and seeing what happens.''
 Many real estate agents argue that people like the Toners are doing the right thing and that the market will not slump as it did a decade ago. The job market is now improving. The interest rate on a 30-year fixed rate mortgage remains just 5.79 percent, according to Bankrate.com. And the number of homes on the market remains far lower than in the early 1990's, relative to sales volumes, despite the recent increases.
 The current slowdown is simply a transition, the agents say, from a scorching hot housing market to a normal, healthy one. ''All we are seeing is a pregnant pause,'' said Richard A. Smith, chief executive of Cendant's real estate division, which owns Coldwell Banker and Century 21, ''a disconnect between sellers and buyers.''
 But many buyers say they have a sense that the long boom has finally come to an end. 
 In the San Jose, Calif., area, where the average house price increased 21 percent last year, Sathish Pottavathini, a programmer at eBay, said he was taking his time with the search for a new home and trying to find a good deal.
 ''I don't want to rush into things especially in this kind of situation,'' Mr. Pottavathini, who is 32, said, ''where you hear about a slowing down everywhere.''
 He and his wife, Madhuri, spend $1,200 a month renting an 800-square-foot two-bedroom apartment, where they live with their 21/2-year-old daughter, Siri. They would like to find a three-bedroom town house with a two-car garage for less than $500,000. 
 Although he does not expect prices to fall significantly, he does not think they will rise either and hopes he can find a bargain -- a goal that seemed all but impossible in Northern California in the last few years. Now, Mr. Pottavathini said, ''If I wait, I might get a better place.''
 Buyers who showed similar patience in the early 1990's were rewarded. From the summer of 1989 to the summer of 1990, the number of homes for sale rose about 10 percent, according to the Realtors association.
 At first, many sellers refused to accept lower offers, thinking that they would get their asking price or close to it. But they eventually had to unload their houses, and in the Northeast and California that often meant reducing the price. In the Los Angeles area, the median sale price of existing houses fell 22 percent from 1992 to 1996, before taking inflation into account.
 If a similar slowdown were to happen again, Mr. Toner said he would consider changing his mind and his asking price. ''At some point, if this were to become protracted, I would consider lowering the price to attract a buyer,'' he said.
 Mr. Pottavathini, meanwhile, is giving his San Jose search four months. After that, he plans to take a break and wait until his daughter is a bit older and his wife returns to work. With more money coming in, they might be able to pay more.
 If they still have not succeeded, they would then consider leaving Northern California -- which he called ''the best place in the world'' -- and returning to their native India. 
 ''If the condos become $600,000, it doesn't make any sense to live here,'' he said. ''Imagine owning a house and paying your whole life for that house. I would rather move back to India.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sathish Pottavathini and his family want to buy a town house in Northern California for less than $500,000. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C13)Chart: ''Different Pictures of the Housing Market''The numbers of houses being sold has fallen, and the number on the market has risen. But average prices are still rising, albeit more slowly than they were a few months ago. This conflicting data has led buyers and sellers to different conclusions about the state of the real estate market.Graphs track the following since 2000:Existing-home salesJan. 2005: 382,000Jan. 2006: 371,000Existing-home inventoryJan. 2005: 2.1 millionJan. 2006: 2.9 millionMedian existing-home priceJan. 2005: $189,000Jan. 2006: $211,000(Source by National Association of Realtors, via Haver Analytics)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%) National Association of Realtors

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) WEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



59 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Underwriting Hamas

 BODY:
America cannot bankroll a Hamas government that preaches and practices terrorism, denies that Israel has any right to exist, and refuses to abide by peace agreements signed by previous Palestinian governments. That should be blindingly obvious. America is engaged in a global armed struggle against terrorism. It is firmly allied with Israel and is committed to Israel's survival. 
 Hamas won the recent Palestinian election fair and square. American officials, who say they are so forcefully committed to the cause of expanding democracy in the Middle East, should not even entertain the idea of doing anything to try to somehow undermine the results and install a different government. But that does not mean continuing to provide the subsidies that help pay for the Palestinian police, civil servants and other employees.
 The Palestinian Authority is having a genuine financial crisis, but it is not America's responsibility. Continuing United States subsidies while Hamas is in power will not move the region one step closer to a fair and sustainable peace.
 That must be the bottom line, unless Hamas starts changing its tune and behavior on peace-related issues. But Washington should leave itself room for flexibility and pragmatism in working out the details. Money should continue to flow to nongovernmental relief organizations for humanitarian projects, provided that the recipient organizations have no links of any kind to terrorist activity or organizations. The same thing goes for independent foundations that remain committed to the principles of the Oslo peace agreements and peaceful dialogue with Israel. And Washington should continue to press Israel to resume turning over to the Palestinian Authority the Palestinian tax and customs funds that Israel collects on the authority's behalf. This is not aid, but the Palestinians' own money. 
 No one should imagine that this strategy is likely to convince average Palestinians that they made a mistake in picking a Hamas government. The withheld American aid will very probably be replaced from less scrupulous sources, like Iran or oil-rich Arab countries. 
 Still, the United States would make a resounding diplomatic and moral point by cutting off aid. It would demonstrate in the clearest possible terms that the American people are not prepared to support governments, elected or unelected, that proclaim the annihilation of other nations as their goal and embrace terrorism as an acceptable tactic for achieving it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%) Editorials; Palestinians; Elections; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%) Hamas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



60 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Out of Old Mines' Muck Rises New Reclamation Model for West

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: BRECKENRIDGE, Colo. 

 BODY:
Pollution saves fish is like man bites dog. 
 But that is what happened in this mining town turned resort as contaminated water from abandoned gold mines drained into French Gulch creek beginning after World War II. The pollution created a barrier that isolated the native Colorado cutthroat trout -- a threatened species -- from nonnative competitors like the rainbow trout that could not fight their way through the muck. The cutthroats thrived in their accidental sanctuary above the mines, where the water was clean.
Now Brian Lorch has to worry about keeping it that way. 
 ''If we're successful in cleaning up French Gulch, we could make it possible for the competitors to move up,'' said Mr. Lorch, an open space and trails resource specialist for Summit County.
 Fish are only one of many wrinkles on a storied piece of mining land called the Golden Horseshoe. In what environmental regulators and academics say was the first deal of its kind in the nation, Breckenridge and Summit County last fall bought 1,840 acres of the 8,000-acre Horseshoe gold field -- most of the rest is already national forest -- from a company that had obtained the assets when the mines went bankrupt. 
 With ownership came responsibility for the environmental problems and the management of a landscape that created Breckenridge in the days of the Gold Rush, but that also suffered some of the worst of mining's effects.
 ''It's the first time in the nation where the E.P.A. entered into an agreement with a purchaser of a site like this who agreed to do a cleanup,'' said Andrea Madigan, a lawyer for the Environmental Protection Agency. Usually, she said, cleanups involve dragooning responsible parties and compelling their actions. Volunteers do not usually line up.
 Local officials admit that the risks are substantial. Just digging a hole, if it uncovers or disturbs environmental problems, could expose the new owners to liabilities as if they had caused the pollution itself. The buyers agreed to spend about $2 million for environmental cleanup, including a $1.2 million water-treatment plant that would have to be operated in perpetuity at a cost of about $90,000 a year, on top of the $8.2 million purchase price. 
 But not acting, local officials said, would have been even riskier. In years past, they said, the property was shielded from development pressures by concerns about pollution and cleanup costs, much the way the upstream cutthroat trout were isolated.
 Explosive growth in the Colorado Rockies over the last decade began to crack those barriers, and town planners said they feared that the property's former owners would begin selling off less damaged parcels to pay for the cleanup and water-treatment that the E.P.A. wanted. 
 And if the Horseshoe was developed for housing, they said, then the roads into it would open up large tracts of backcountry that Breckenridge wants preserved for its outdoor recreation economy.
 The Horseshoe's pollutants, mainly heavy metals like cadmium and zinc, are ecologically harmful, but are not considered a human health risk by the E.P.A. 
 ''We needed to get the problem sites in order to protect the whole,'' said Todd Robertson, the county's director of open space and trails.
 Academics and experts on mine reclamation -- one of the biggest environmental problems of the West, where there are perhaps 500,000 abandoned mines -- say that Breckenridge's groundbreaking path could change how mine reclamation works. With ownership of the pollution and control of the land, they say, comes the power to shape the post-mining landscape in a way that goes far beyond just cleaning it up.
 ''Breckenridge can lead the way,'' said Alan Berger, an associate professor of landscape architecture at Harvard and founder of the Project for Reclamation Excellence, a group at the design school that works on reclaiming land damaged by resource extraction. ''The opportunities of what the town and county can do here are completely open-ended.''
 And so are the burdens. The property is hatch-marked by miles of unmarked and unmapped trails carved by generations of backcountry users at a time when no owner was around to say boo. The new owners are bracing for what they expect will be contentious public meetings beginning this spring as managers decide which trails to keep open and who may use them. The town favors things like hiking and biking, while the county wants to make sure that motorized users have their say as well. 
 Mining's legacy on the forest is another headache. In gold's heyday, lumber was needed for mills and tunnels, and by the late 1800's the Horseshoe was stripped. The result today is a narrow monoculture in which the oldest trees are about 120 years old -- mostly lodgepole pines. 
 Pine beetles, which have ravaged vast parts of the West, are just hitting this part of Colorado. Local officials warn that the bugs, which love mature lodgepoles, could kill 80 percent of Horseshoe's trees.
 But Breckenridge, which has carved a tourist niche around its mining history and historic buildings also wants to incorporate the story of the Horseshoe into the fabric of the local economy. That means thinking about mines and miners, and how they gave rise to Breckenridge.
 That is where Claire Agre, a Harvard graduate student in landscape architecture, enters the picture. 
 Ms. Agre, with eight other graduate students from Harvard's Graduate School of Design who work with Professor Berger, came to Breckenridge in February with their professor to think big thoughts about what the Golden Horseshoe might become. 
 Her initial idea was that history, pollution, tourism and recreation all fit together perfectly. ''The history of mining is part of the town's identity -- I think the reclamation itself could become part of that identity,'' she said. Perhaps, she mused, a cultural trail could be carved through the property that would include the abandoned mines and an interactive display about the impact of mining and the technology of the cleanup. The students will present their ideas to the town and county in May.
 The cutthroat trout, meanwhile, which get their name from the little filigree of red on their gills, are apparently safe for now. 
 Mr. Lorch said state wildlife officials had looked at two road crossings under which French Gulch passes in its journey from the Horseshoe and concluded that the artificial waterfalls from the pipes under those roads provided adequate barriers to downstream interlopers, clean water or no. Signs will go up soon, he said, warning that wildlife officials must be notified before any changes can be made to the crucial crossings


GRAPHIC: Photos: Claire Agre, left, a Harvard graduate student, recently presented ideas for developing the old mining area.
 Kristin Frederickson, left, a Harvard graduate student, with Scott Reid, a town planner, inspecting an old mining mill in Breckenridge, Colo. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Map of Colorado highlighting Breckenridge: A project to transform an old mining area into a vibrant resort.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (79%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (79%); MINES & MINING (78%); LAND RECLAMATION (73%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (65%) Environment; Gold; Mines and Mining; Land Use Policies; Reclamation of Land

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Breckenridge (Colo); Summit County (Colo); Breckenridge (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



61 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Foiled in the U.S., Singapore Port Operator Seeks to Invest Elsewhere

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, March 3 

 BODY:
Perhaps no one has the right to be more disappointed that Dubai is buying the storied British container port operator at the center of the political storm in the United States than the company it outbid, PSA International of Singapore.
 PSA has no port operations in the United States, so the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company and the six American ports where it operates terminals would have been strong additions to the 19 others that PSA already has stakes in around the world. Peninsular & Oriental's port operations in fast-growing China and India were also a draw. 
Moreover, the state-owned PSA would have vaulted to No. 1 from second in the top rankings of global port operators. And there would have been an historical twist: In 1845, Singapore moved its port from what is now its financial district to the southern coast just to serve Peninsular & Oriental's coal-hungry steamships. 
 Yet PSA, whose single shareholder is the Singapore government's $63 billion investment agency, chose to walk away after DP World topped its bid of $:3.5 billion with one for $:3.92 billion ($6.8 billion). That move demonstrated not only investment shrewdness on PSA's part, but also a fundamental aspect of the global ports business.
 ''It's not about planting flags in as many places as you can,'' said Neil Davidson, container ports analyst for Drewry Shipping Consultants in London. ''It's about owning successful terminals in as many places as you can.''
 Failure in the battle for Peninsular & Oriental presents PSA and its competitors with an uncomfortable new reality, analysts say. With the world's privately owned ports now dominated by four big players -- including Hutchison Port Holdings of Hong Kong and the A. P. Moller-Maersk Group of Denmark -- further growth in the port terminal empires will largely involve buying individual ports from governments, expanding existing terminals or building them from scratch.
 ''It will be difficult for them to find a significant investment,'' said Yasmin Wirjawan, an analyst at Standard & Poor's in Singapore. PSA declined requests for an interview.
 Fortunately for PSA, surging global trade is swelling its war chest for expansion. The company announced on Wednesday that net profits last year grew 20 percent to $653 million as cargo volumes jumped by nearly a quarter. Central to its growth is its home port in Singapore, where traffic grew last year to a record, equivalent to one-tenth of global container traffic. 
 Until it was converted into a corporation in 1997, PSA was known as the Port of Singapore Authority, in charge of operating and regulating Singapore's terminals. Its fortunes, therefore, have long been synonymous with those of Singapore, which last year overtook Hong Kong as the world's busiest container port.
 With no natural resources, Singapore has relied on trade since the British declared it a free port in the early 19th century. Ideally situated at one end of the Strait of Malacca, Singapore grew into a hub for trade from Asia to Europe, first for spices from Indonesia and tea from China and now for high-technology goods from factories in China, Malaysia and Thailand. 
 Exports from Singapore still amount to 150 percent of its gross domestic product. While Singapore is now a major manufacturing center itself, almost half of those shipments are products made elsewhere, consolidated into larger cargo, and then re-exported.
 Singapore's success as a trans-shipment hub has left it vulnerable to competition, but it has fended off that threat through efficiency. It has automated much of its operations; operators at its most advanced terminal handle up to six cranes remotely. And it sells its proprietary system for finding the most efficient way to load containers onto a vessel so they can be unloaded more quickly at their destination.
 But Singapore and PSA got a taste of what can go wrong in 2002, when Malaysia opened a rival container port less than 50 miles away, luring both the Maersk shipping line and Evergreen Marine of Taiwan with lower prices.
 PSA responded by laying off 14 percent of its work force and offering discounted prices. It even abandoned its longstanding resistance to allowing shipping companies to operate their own berths.
 ''They've become more responsive to customers,'' said Lawrence Liaw, general manager at the Singapore office of the shipping line Nippon Yusen of Japan.
 The threat from Malaysia also lent new urgency to an effort to reduce PSA's reliance on its home port. PSA made its first overseas investment in 1996 when it bought a terminal in northern China. In 2002, it made its largest overseas investment, paying an undisclosed amount for an 80 percent stake in a new terminal in Antwerp, Belgium.
 Last year, PSA paid a reported $640 million for a minority stake in a terminal in Tianjin, China, and another $925 million for a share of the Hong Kong operations of its biggest rival in Asia, Hutchison Port Holdings. 
 It also went head to head with oil-rich Dubai, losing a bid for the overseas ports of CSX World Terminals, but winning a stake in a port in Turkey.
 PSA now counts on overseas assets for roughly half its revenue. But the cost, financed entirely with cash and debt, has been high. Credit analysts warned that its plan to buy Peninsular & Oriental could have hurt its overall financial stability.
 ''It would have affected the flexibility of the whole company,'' said Esther Lee, an analyst at Moody's Investors Service in Hong Kong. 
 Now, analysts say, PSA will have to search for more bite-size additions. But new acquisitions will be increasingly expensive. While ports were selling for roughly $300 for a 20-foot equivalent unit -- the standard size of a single container -- prices have been rising to $500 and higher, according to Mr. Davidson at Drury, roughly what DP World paid for Peninsular & Oriental's capacity.


GRAPHIC: Photo: PSA International of Singapore, which has no port operations in the United States, was outbid for a stake in six American ports. (Photo by Jonathan Drake/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); RANKINGS (74%); DIVESTITURES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; International Trade and World Market; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (85%); DP WORLD LTD (58%); A P MOELLER-MAERSK A/S (58%); HUTCHISON PORT HOLDINGS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Dp World; Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co; Psa Inc

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (58%); MAERSK.B (CPH) (58%); MAERSK.A (CPH) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (85%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (85%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (85%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (85%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (85%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (58%); NAICS488320 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (53%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (53%)

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) SINGAPORE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Singapore; Dubai; Great Britain; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



62 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: BlackBerry Service To Continue

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, March 3 

 BODY:
The thumbs of nearly 3.2 million BlackBerry users in the United States can continue tapping out those wireless e-mail messages without fear of interruption.
 Just days before a judge was expected to issue an injunction shutting the popular e-mail service, the patent holder, NTP, dropped its infringement lawsuit against the device maker, Research in Motion, in exchange for $612.5 million.
The announcement followed three days of negotiations as well as several setbacks for NTP at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 
 R.I.M.'s decision to settle was immediately welcomed by customers and investors; its shares rose as much as 19 percent, to $85.40, in after-hours trading. But R.I.M.'s executives seemed less enthusiastic.
 ''No question, we took one for the team here,'' R.I.M.'s chairman and co-chief executive, Jim Balsillie, said during a conference call. He added that it was ''not a good feeling to write this kind of check.''
 If the injunction had been imposed, the best case for R.I.M.'s customers would have been the installation of alternative e-mail software that, according to R.I.M., would have worked around NTP's patent claims. But the process would have been costly, time-consuming and, R.I.M.'s assertions aside, still clouded by legal questions.
 ''There's been a collective sigh of relief,'' said Ellen Dailey, an analyst with Forrester Research. ''R.I.M. knew that by not settling they were going to put tremendous pressure on their customers.''
 John Sicher, the publisher and editor of Beverage Digest, said he had been looking for something to replace the BlackBerry. ''I am very relieved and pleased that I can now stop my search for alternatives,'' said Mr. Sicher, a BlackBerry user for about three years. 
 Large corporate BlackBerry users were also happy. ''It was going to be a nightmare because we have 3,000 BlackBerry users,'' a spokeswoman for United Parcel Service, Donna Barrett, said.
 The deal was brokered during three days of talks at a Manhattan office of Citigroup, NTP's banker. While Friday's settlement is higher than a $450 million deal that the companies attempted a year ago, it is well below analyst estimates that in some cases topped $1 billion.
 Susan Kalla at Caris & Company, who predicted an amount more in line with Friday's figure, praised R.I.M.'s decision to settle the case, which dates back to November 2001.
 The settlement was announced a week after Judge James R. Spencer of Federal District Court in Richmond, Va., heard a request from NTP for an order cutting off service to all BlackBerry users in the United States except for government and emergency account holders. A jury found in 2002 that R.I.M. had infringed five NTP patents. All appeals of that decision failed.
 At the hearing, Judge Spencer chided the companies for not being able to settle the dispute.
 ''Judge Spencer's guidance last Friday was very helpful,'' James Wallace, a lawyer for NTP, wrote in an e-mail message when asked what spurred the settlement.
 Early this week, the prospects for a deal looked dim. On Monday, the companies issued barbed e-mail messages attacking each other's positions. But people close to the negotiations said that two executives with Citigroup Global Markets, Joseph Mooney and Jerry Cincotta, persuaded R.I.M. to meet with them on Wednesday.
 In addition to the Citigroup executives, the talks were attended by Mr. Wallace and an NTP co-founder, Donald E. Stout. R.I.M. was represented by Martin Glick and Ronald Star, two American lawyers, as well as two lawyers from the company's Canadian head office. 
 The settlement, which was largely reached late Thursday, came as both sides backed away from issues that apparently caused the earlier deal to collapse.
 Research in Motion agreed that NTP would not have to refund the settlement money under any circumstances. Last week the Patent Office rejected the three patents that were still the focus of the case after the appeals. R.I.M. had insisted last year that NTP not be entitled to any money if it lost the appeal and was unable to save its patents.
 For its part, NTP agreed that the settlement would include all of R.I.M.'s customers, particularly wireless carriers. A year ago, R.I.M. was concerned that it would settle the case only to find its service bogged down by lawsuits against the companies that deliver it.
 Adding to the difficulties was the personal tone that sometimes affected decision making over the case.
 NTP's only assets are patents granted to Thomas J. Campana Jr., an engineer from the Chicago area who owned a small company that developed a crude wireless e-mail system in 1987. Mr. Campana, who died in 2004 founded NTP with Mr. Stout, his patent lawyer, to take advantage of the patents.
 On several occasions, Mr. Stout complained that R.I.M. initially refused to take the patent claims seriously and that it later maintained an arrogant attitude.
 The bad feelings went both ways. In court filings, R.I.M. often denounced its adversary's claims in unusually harsh terms. Mr. Balsillie attacked the claims as an abuse of the intellectual property system.
 A telecommunications analyst, Jeff Kagan, said that by prolonging the dispute, R.I.M. aided its rivals.
 ''If BlackBerry had settled this a year ago, they could have kept the secret that BlackBerry is no longer the only wireless e-mail option,'' Mr. Kagan said. ''Because of the blanket of publicity, the public now sees that there are other choices.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the settlement of a patent suit against Research in Motion, the creator of the BlackBerry wireless e-mail device, misspelled the surname of a Forrester Research analyst who said the deal would ease concerns among R.I.M.'s customers. (The error was repeated in an article yesterday.) She is Ellen Daley, not Dailey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); PATENTS (90%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (77%); PATENT LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) Computers and the Internet; Suits and Litigation; Inventions and Patents; Electronic Mail

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (90%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (52%); CITIGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (57%) Ntp Inc; Research in Motion

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (90%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (90%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); UPS (NYSE) (52%); C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: JAMES BALSILLIE (78%) James (Judge) Spencer; Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (65%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



63 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Hamas Seems Undeterred By Threat To Cut Aid

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3 

 BODY:
Six weeks after Hamas's surprising win in the Palestinian parliamentary elections, American and European officials say they are beginning to give up hope that the threat to cut off financial support will prompt the group to moderate its positions, leaving the West with a nearly impossible dilemma as it decides how to respond.
 ''What to do is not so simple, and we are not even close to having a solid response yet,'' said Marc Otte, the special European Union representative to the Middle East. 
In Moscow on Friday, Khaled Meshal, the Hamas leader, once again said Hamas had no interest in recognizing Israel, and would maintain the informal cease-fire that has been in place for the last year only if Israel refrained from violence.
 Asked Friday about the hope, stated often by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, that Hamas would back down from its hard-line stance in the face of the threat of economic insolvency, a senior administration official said, ''You never know, but I don't see any indication that it's going to happen.'' The official requested anonymity under government rules.
 Mr. Otte, in a talk here at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, did not even mention the possibility that Hamas would renounce its charter and take a more moderate stance. He is in town for meetings on Capitol Hill and with Bush administration officials, and he left the impression that for the Europeans particularly, the choices are bleak. Mr. Otte and others noted that a cutoff of aid to the Palestinian government would present the United States and Europe with difficult questions.
 For example, will the Palestinian Central Elections Commission, with its financing cut off, be able to organize the next election, so that Hamas does not remain in power unchallenged? Will the United States and Europe be held responsible for the probable closure of Palestinian schools, once the money to pay the teachers and administrators is taken away? 
 Patrick Clawson, deputy director of the Washington Institute, noting that the United States and Europe, the main financiers for the Palestinian Authority, have both said they will continue providing humanitarian aid, predicted that the definition of such aid would be revised. Paying teachers, he said, will ''be considered humanitarian aid.''
 But Mr. Otte disagreed. ''It's not so simple to define,'' he said, because the European legal definition restricts it to ''funding for an emergency, like a natural disaster.'' If aid in various forms is to be provided directly to the Palestinian people, he added, Europe has no structure in place to administer that aside from the Palestinian Authority. ''To reconfigure this is going to take time.'' 
 Mr. Otte also repeated a concern of both European and American officials. ''What happens when one stops paying salaries to 70,000 security personnel who are there with guns and no one to report to?'' he asked. 
 Europe provides the largest portion of direct aid to the Palestinians; $600 million was promised last year. Most American aid is either humanitarian or for development projects. The Europeans have not threatened to cut off aid, only to reassess it once the Hamas government takes office. But the United States position is firm. Officials say United States law does not allow the government to provide aid to a terrorist group. 
 ''We have not, do not and will not provide assistance to Hamas, in government or out of government,'' C. David Welch, assistant secretary of state for Near East affairs, told Congress on Thursday. He noted that the Palestinian government had largely complied with the American demand that $50 million in development aid recently disbursed to the Palestinian Authority be returned. 
 Some Bush administration officials worry that Europe's open discussion of its misgivings about cutting off aid is giving comfort to Hamas, leading its leaders to hope that some of the financing might continue. ''There is the view that the lack of clarity is giving Hamas room to maneuver that we'd rather not let them have,'' the senior official said. 
 But Mr. Otte had a warning for the United States, where some officials have said they hope a cutoff of aid will result in the collapse of the Hamas government. ''Be careful about making assumptions,'' he said. ''We made assumptions about the Palestinian elections'' that proved to be wrong. No one predicted that Hamas would win. ''The quick collapse of the Hamas government, we don't know what consequences it would have.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CLOSINGS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY (55%) Hamas

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%) Joel Brinkley; Khaled Meshal

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Israel; Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



64 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in High-Tech Center, Urges Americans to Welcome Competition From India

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Somini Sengupta and Hari Kumar contributed reporting from New Delhi for this article.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, March 3 

 BODY:
Before arriving in Pakistan, President Bush finished his two-day visit to India with a speech praising the new warmth in Indian-American relations, and urged Americans to welcome rather than fear India as an economic competitor. 
 ''The United States and India, separated by half the globe, are closer than ever before, and the partnership between our free nations has the power to transform the world,'' Mr. Bush declared in the cool March air on the grounds of a 16th-century fort in New Delhi.
Earlier, Mr. Bush began his final day in India with a four-hour trip to Hyderabad, in the south, where he met with entrepreneurs, toured an agricultural university and patted a water buffalo. 
 Hyderabad is a center of India's booming high-tech industry, and was also on President Clinton's itinerary when he visited India in 2000. 
 There, Mr. Bush strongly defended the outsourcing of American jobs to India as the reality of a global economy, and said the United States should instead focus on India as a vital new market for American goods. 
 ''People do lose jobs as a result of globalization, and it's painful for those who lose jobs,'' Mr. Bush said at a meeting with young entrepreneurs at the Indian School of Business, one of the premier schools of its kind in India. Nonetheless, the president said, ''globalization provides great opportunities.''
 Mr. Bush said there was a ''300-million-person market of middle-class citizens here in India, and that if we can make a product they want,'' then ''all of a sudden, people will be able to have a market here.''
 Later in the day, in New Delhi, Mr. Bush called on India to continue to raise its ceilings on foreign investment and to continue to open its markets to American goods, and reiterated that a major nuclear pact that he and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India announced Thursday would help India meet its enormous energy needs.
 Speaking in the dramatically lighted setting of the fort called the Purana Qila, built by the Afghan conqueror Sher Shah Suri, Mr. Bush evoked the memory of Gandhi, the founder of modern India.
 ''Yesterday, I visited a memorial to Mahatma Gandhi, and read the peaceful words of a fearless man,'' Mr. Bush said. ''His words are familiar in my country because they helped move a generation of Americans to overcome the injustice of racial segregation. 
 ''When Martin Luther King arrived in Delhi in 1959, he said to other countries, 'I may go as a tourist, but to India, I come as a pilgrim.' I come to India as a friend.''
 The president also prepared his Indian hosts for his impending visit to rival Pakistan, saying, ''the day is passed'' since Indians worried about America's friendship with Pakistan. 
 ''India is better off because America has a close relationship with Pakistan, and Pakistan is better off because America has a close relation with India,'' Mr. Bush said. 
 He added that ''a prosperous, democratic Pakistan will be a steadfast partner for America, a peaceful neighbor for India, and a force for freedom and moderation in the Arab world.''
 A short time later on Air Force One, Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, told reporters that Mr. Bush had meant to say ''the Muslim world,'' because Pakistan is not an Arab country.
 Reactions to Mr. Bush's remarks from the Indian business, military and political leaders invited to the speech were positive. ''My sense is, he has struck an emotional chord,'' said Rana Kapoor, chief executive of Yes Bank Ltd. ''The speech came across as a conscientious recognition of India as a strong democratic ally.''
 Sachin Pilot, a member of Parliament, described the speech as ''upbeat and bullish.''
 ''It gives you the feeling that things are much more equitable,'' he said. ''Not only was the speech filled with compliments about India,'' he said, there was also an expectation for India ''to play its global role.''
 But anti-Bush protests in Lucknow, in the north, exploded into violence on Friday. Three people were killed and more than a dozen injured, the police said. 
 The violence began when Muslim demonstrators called for shops to be shuttered Friday afternoon to protest Mr. Bush's visit. The closings spiraled into scuffles, stone-throwing and gunfights on the street, said O.P. Tripathi, inspector general of police for Lucknow. Riot police were called in.
 In Indian-administered Kashmir, as street protesters denounced the Bush visit, a coalition of separatist groups asked Mr. Bush to help resolve the half-century-long conflict over the territory and urge both India and Pakistan to demilitarize their portions of the province.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anti-Bush protests yesterday in Lucknow, India, left three people dead, including Shanu, 14, in the arms of a man seeking medical aid. (Photo by Ajay Kumar Singh/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); OUTSOURCING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); TRENDS (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Labor; Foreign Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%) UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (73%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (73%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%) India; Lucknow (India) ; India

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



65 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Vermont Losing Prized Resource As Young Depart

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: POULTNEY, Vt. 

 BODY:
Not long ago, Ray Pentkowski, the principal of Poultney Elementary School, published an unusual request in the school newsletter. Please, he urged parents, have more babies. The school desperately needs them. 
 He was half joking, but the problem is real. His school, down to 208 children, has lost a third of its student population since 1999 and must cut staff levels, he said, ''for the first time in my memory.''
 Poultney, a town of 3,600 bordering New York, is just one example of a situation that increasingly alarms many in Vermont. This state of beautiful mountains and popular ski resorts, once a magnet for back-to-the-landers, is losing young people at a precipitous clip. 
 Vermont, with a population of about 620,000, now has the lowest birth rate among states. Three-quarters of its public schools have lost children since 2000. 
 Vermont also has the highest rate of students attending college out of their home state -- 57 percent, up from 36 percent 20 years ago. Many do not move back. The total number of 20- to 34-year-olds in Vermont has shrunk by 19 percent since 1990. 
 Vermont's governor, Jim Douglas, is treating the situation like a crisis. He proposes making Vermont the ''Silicon Valley'' of environmental technology companies to lure businesses and workers; giving college scholarships requiring students to stay in Vermont for three years after graduating; relaxing once-sacrosanct environmentally driven building restrictions in some areas to encourage more housing; and campaigning in high schools and elementary schools to encourage students ''to focus now on making a plan to stay in Vermont,'' said Jason Gibbs, a spokesman for Mr. Douglas. 
 Mr. Douglas said: ''There's an exodus of young people. It's dramatic. We need to reverse it. The consequences of not acting are severe.'' 
 While Vermont's population of young people shrinks, the number of older residents is multiplying because Vermont increasingly attracts retirees from other states. It is now the second-oldest state, behind Maine. Arthur Woolf, an economist at the University of Vermont, said that by 2030, there would be only two working-age Vermonters for every retiree. 
 Without more working people, Mr. Douglas said, ''we won't have tax revenue for anything other than public education and Medicaid. There'll be no money for anything else.''
 The situation stems from what Robert G. Clarke, chancellor of Vermont's state colleges, calls ''a perfect demographic storm'' involving jobs, housing, the environment, education, even skiing. 
 The back-to-the-land influx of the 1960's, 70's and 80's, which once had Vermont growing faster than the country as a whole, has dissipated, Professor Woolf said. Vermont may have lost some cachet for the people often referred to as ''flatlanders.''
 ''If you live in New York or Boston and you want to get away from it all, these days it's just as cheap to fly out to Boise, Idaho, or Montana,'' Professor Woolf said.
 Fewer babies are being born in part because Vermont has few immigrants, who tend to have larger families. Vermont has also lost many good-paying jobs, driving away many well-educated young people and further discouraging businesses. 
 Zachary Menchini, 21, left Shaftsbury, Vt., for Syracuse University and does not expect to return until he retires. Graduating, with interests in finance and nonprofit housing, he searched unsuccessfully for jobs in Burlington, Vermont's largest city.
 ''Vermont just doesn't offer many opportunities,'' he said. ''For someone who's young and trying to make a name for himself, it's just not really the best environment.'' 
 Governor Douglas said one executive had told him: ''My business is growing, my orders are increasing, my markets are branching out. I would like to grow in Vermont, but I'm not sure I can find enough workers.''
 The worker shortage recently forced Mr. Douglas to say he would not drive out illegal immigrants working on Vermont's dairy farms. 
 ''I respect the laws of the United States, of course,'' Mr. Douglas said. ''But the cows have to be milked.''
 There is also a serious housing shortage, with mountains and environmental restrictions barring building in many places. 
 New houses are mostly built for affluent second-home owners who come for skiing or summer. In Poultney, on Lake St. Catherine, nonresidents own 56 percent of the homes, up from 38 percent in 1999. In Ludlow, a ski area, year-round residents own only 16 percent of homes.
 Expensive new construction ''makes it a challenge for a young working family,'' said Frank Heald, Ludlow's municipal manager.
 Vermont has the most colleges per capita in the nation and is full of out-of-state students who leave after graduating. But Vermonters often find tuition lower elsewhere because Vermont's colleges and universities get less state financing.
 Besides, with the biggest city having only 40,000 people, ''growing up in Vermont can feel like a straitjacket,'' said Nicholas Reid, 22, who was raised on a farm in Brookfield but now lives near Boston. ''There wasn't a lot of opportunity for diversity.''
 Jennifer Black of Walden, Vt., now in Stoneham, Mass., said she contemplated returning, with two children for Vermont's schools. But jobs for her husband, a defense industry engineer, are ''hard to come by'' in Vermont, as are some conveniences. 
 ''When I'm up there visiting, I think I would love to live up there,'' said Ms. Black, 36. ''The air's so fresh.'' But, she added, ''you have to drive half an hour to a grocery store. I can walk to a grocery store from here. There's a place where my kids can take swimming lessons readily available here.'' 
 Most people moving to Vermont are well-educated retirees like Dale Lott, 71, from New Jersey, who bought a Victorian Gothic house in Poultney for just over $100,000.
 Some of Governor Douglas's proposals are controversial, like scholarships to be financed with tobacco settlement money, which some legislators want for health care.
 And Daniel M. Fogel, the University of Vermont's president, says some have not grasped the seriousness of the problem. They believe a shrinking population will prevent overdevelopment, but these ''antisprawl folks are the very people who tend to value very highly the environmental protections and the social programs, which the state is not going to be able to afford if the working population shrinks,'' Mr. Fogel said. 
 In Poultney, a working-class town, it seems as if many young people have heeded the call of a former resident, Horace Greeley, to ''go west'' -- or south or east, for that matter. 
 ''Here's another house that had a few kids, but an elderly retired couple bought it,'' said Jonas Rosenthal, the town manager. ''These people had several kids -- they're in Texas now visiting those children.'' 
 Anne DeBonis, co-president of Poultney's Chamber of Commerce, said two of her three sons had left Vermont. The third, married with two children, cannot afford a house, living instead in a duplex and renting out part of it to make ends meet. 
 ''You spend your life raising these wonderful individuals and they leave,'' said Pattie McCoy, Poultney's town clerk, who has two daughters out of state and a third in high school. ''You're exporting your best product, that's what you're doing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Poultney, Vt., was once home to two big names in journalism.
 Vermont schools like Green Mountain College draw many students from other states, but most Vermonters choose to attend college out of state. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart: ''An Aging State''Vermont is projected to have slower population growth than the nation as a whole in the coming decades, and by 2030, nearly 1 out of every 3 adults in the state will be 65 or older.Change in populationGraph tracks change in population in Vermont compared to the rest of the United States since 1970.Percentage of adults who are 65 or olderGraph tracks percent of adults who are 65 or older in Vermont compared with the rest of the United States since 1970.Vermont: 30.4% in 2030U.S.: 25.7%(Source by Census Bureau)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (86%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); MOUNTAINS (75%); SKIING (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); MEDICAID (72%); RESORTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); SKIING FACILITIES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (65%) Education and Schools; Education and Schools; Children and Youth; Population; Retirement; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: JIM DOUGLAS (79%) Pam Belluck; Ray Pentkowski; Jim (Gov) Douglas

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (69%) VERMONT, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (99%) Vermont; Poultney (Vt)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



66 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Markets Cling to Positive Comments by a Fed Governor

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks closed slightly lower yesterday after upbeat comments on inflation from a Federal Reserve governor helped offset a bleak forecast from Intel. The major indexes finished mixed for the week. 
 The market first fell on Intel's news, but rallied after a Fed vice chairman, Roger W. Ferguson Jr., suggested that core price inflation was under control and hinted at a moderating fiscal policy from the central bank. An afternoon rise in oil prices, which fed Wall Street's concerns about inflation, eroded those gains.
 News that the nation's service sector grew faster than expected last month countered a drop in consumer confidence, lending some stability to a market stifled recently by concerns about more interest rate increases and rising energy costs. 
 ''In general, there's still a decent amount of momentum coming off the start of the year, which typically tends to support the market,'' said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist for Weeden & Company. ''Stocks should hold up well, assuming we don't get a sharp rise in long-term rates here.'' 
 At the close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 3.92 points, or 0.04 percent, to 11,021.59. 
 Broader stock indicators also finished lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 1.91 points, or 0.15 percent, to 1,287.23, and the Nasdaq composite index slid 8.51 points, or 0.37 percent, to 2,302.60. 
 Bond prices fell for a third session, with the 10-year Treasury note's yield, which moves inversely to the price, rising to 4.68 percent, from 4.63 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices tumbled. 
 Crude oil futures advanced as heightening political tension overseas created supply fears. A barrel of light crude oil added 31 cents, to settle at $63.67, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 The Institute for Supply Management said its nonmanufacturing index climbed 3.3 points, to 60.1, compared with economists' expectation of 58. The University of Michigan reported its consumer sentiment index slipped 0.7 point, to 86.7, while economists had predicted a rise of 0.1 point. 
 Yesterday's up-and-down trading mirrored the erratic behavior on Wall Street this week as nervous investors reacted to a mix of economic news on the housing market and retail sales, which in turn created speculation about further rate increases from the Fed. For the week, the Dow lost 0.36 percent and the S.& P. 500 fell 0.17 percent, while the Nasdaq gained 0.68 percent. 
 Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan, Beck & Company, said he felt Mr. Ferguson had delivered a promising message about the underlying strength of the economy and that the existing risks were manageable. 
 Intel's warning sent its stock down 17 cents, to $20.32, near a 52-week low of $19.88. The company lowered the midpoint of its projected quarterly revenue by $500 million, adding that its gross margins would also be hurt by lower sales of its chips. 
 Novell further disappointed tech investors with first-quarter earnings that fell sharply from last year as sales slid by 5 percent. The results prompted First Albany Capital to cut Novell to underperform, pulling shares $1.63 lower, to $7.90. 
 AK Steel surged $2.65, to $13.99, after a report in The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that the company was in talks to be acquired by United States Steel, increasing shares across the sector. United States Steel rose 38 cents, to $57.98. 
 Responding to shareholder pressure, the fast food chain Wendy's International said on Thursday that it might sell its Baja Fresh Mexican Grill restaurants and would speed the spinoff of the coffee chain Tim Hortons through an initial public offering. Yesterday, Wendy's was up $2.10, to $60.54. 
 Google shares posted a second day of gains after the company eased Wall Street's concerns about its growth prospects during a meeting with analysts on Thursday. Google gained $1.73, to $378.18. 
 The Russell 2000 index closed the week up 1.84, or 0.25 percent, at 738.44.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (95%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); WEEDEN & CO LP (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



67 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plan Would Raise Deficit by $1.2 Trillion, Budget Office Says

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 3 

 BODY:
President Bush's budget would increase the federal deficit by $35 billion this year and by more than $1.2 trillion over the next decade, the Congressional Budget Office reported on Friday. 
 The nonpartisan budget office said that Mr. Bush's tax-cutting proposals would cost about $1.7 trillion over the next 10 years and that his proposals to partly privatize Social Security would cost about $312 billion during that period.
The office also said Mr. Bush's proposals to save money on Medicare, Medicaid and most nonmilitary programs would offset about one-third of the cost of his other proposals.
 The report comes as Republican leaders in Congress prepare to settle on their own budget for next year, which could differ substantially from Mr. Bush's. They are already running into political and economic obstacles as they try to extend Mr. Bush's tax cuts, pay for the war in Iraq and squeeze spending on antipoverty programs, education and most other areas of nonmilitary spending.
 Senate Republicans, nervous about their prospects in this fall's midterm elections, are balking at Mr. Bush's proposal to trim $36 billion over five years from Medicare, the government health program for the elderly. 
 House and Senate leaders remain bogged down over a limited extension of Mr. Bush's tax cut for stock dividends, and Senate Republicans have repeatedly failed in efforts to permanently repeal the estate tax.
 At first blush, the Congressional Budget Office's report appears optimistic because it envisions that the budget deficit will slowly decline from $371 billion this year as economic growth generates more revenue and as Mr. Bush's budget cuts take effect.
 Measured as a share of the total economy, the budget deficit would decline to about 1 percent in 2011 from 2.8 percent this year. Though the government would still be borrowing money each year, the annual deficit would be low by historical standards.
 But the budget office noted that it had not included money for military costs in Iraq and Afghanistan after this year. The Bush administration has asked for a total of $92 billion in supplemental spending this year for those efforts.
 Mr. Bush's budget also omits any cost for preventing a huge expansion of the alternative minimum tax, a parallel income tax that is expected to engulf tens of millions of people over the next several years.
 Mr. Bush's budget assumes that the government will reap well over $1 trillion from the alternative minimum tax over the next decade, but Republicans and Democrats alike have vowed to prevent that from happening.
 The optimistic outlook also assumes that Congress freezes or cuts the vast majority of discretionary government programs outside of military and domestic security ones. 
 Mr. Bush's 2007 budget would cut $2.1 billion next year from education, which had been one of the president's areas for increased spending. It would also cut money for community development block grants, low-income housing, child-support enforcement against deadbeat fathers and scores of other programs with support in Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ESTATE TAX (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AGING (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); DIVIDENDS (68%); ELDER HEALTH (66%); MEDICAID (55%) Taxation; Social Security (US); Privatization; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Medicaid

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



68 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: PAKISTAN IS TENSE AS BUSH ARRIVES ON 24-HOUR VISIT

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and ELISABETH BUMILLER; Hari Kumar and Somini Sengupta contributed reporting from New Delhi for this article, and Salman Masood from Pakistan.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, March 3 

 BODY:
President Bush arrived here on Friday for a 24-hour visit to a capital locked down under extraordinary security, as a broad coalition of political parties closed shops and halted transportation across the country and planned more demonstrations for the weekend. 
 The visit by Mr. Bush, the first by an American president in six years, threatened to further roil a nation still seething over the cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad that were first published in a Danish newspaper.
Thousands of people have turned out for weeks in rolling protests that were increasingly directed at Mr. Bush and the pro-American policies of Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf.
 Mr. Bush nevertheless flew directly to Islamabad aboard Air Force One, a symbolic gesture that he considered the country safe enough for a presidential welcome on an open tarmac, and an overnight stay. 
 The capital was virtually sealed for his arrival. Concrete barriers and police squads blocked off the main avenues running to Parliament, the presidential palace and the diplomatic enclave where the president stayed, leaving the streets from the airport dark and deserted. 
 Before his arrival, President Bush heralded General Musharraf as a courageous man who has stood firm through several assassination attempts as a frontline ally in the fight against terrorism. 
 Mr. Bush also commended the general's vision for Pakistan as a moderate Islamic state. 
 But General Musharraf faces more political pressure than at any time since he seized power in a coup in 1999, as the turmoil over the cartoons has given Islamic parties an opportunity to develop an alliance with the larger, secular opposition. 
 ''Islamabad is not ready to accept a visit from Bush,'' Syed Munawar Hasan, secretary general of the largest Islamic political party, Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan, warned during the past week of rallies, arrests and growing political antagonism. ''The people hate Bush -- the demonstrations will show that -- there is no doubt about that.''
 The problem of terrorism inside Pakistan and the kinds of pressures General Musharraf faces were evident on Thursday when a suicide bomber killed an American diplomat and two others outside the American Consulate in Karachi. 
 Six years ago, President Clinton arrived in Islamabad by unmarked military jet accompanied by a decoy plane with the familiar blue and white of Air Force One and ''United States of America'' on its side.
 Despite Mr. Bush's more public landing, Air Force One approached Islamabad with its running lights off and interior shades drawn, a precaution that would make it harder for anyone trying to aim a missile at the plane. 
 After his airport arrival was covered by local television crews, Mr. Bush slipped away from public view, and reporters traveling with him could not tell whether he even rode with the presidential motorcade, or in an unmarked Black Hawk helicopter, to the heavily fortified residence of the American ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker. 
 At their meetings on Saturday, Mr. Bush is expected to support General Musharraf's efforts to advance a solution with India over the disputed territory of Kashmir, and to sign trade and economic agreements. 
 But there will be no consideration of nuclear cooperation of the kind Mr. Bush announced with India, because Pakistan's role in nuclear proliferation, led by the scientist A. Q. Khan, remains a black mark. 
 Security will remain tight through Mr. Bush's stay. General Musharraf has reacted sternly to the political commotion since the Danish cartoons, banning rallies in Islamabad and in Lahore, where the worst violence occurred on Feb. 14, when five people were killed. 
 The government has since detained some political leaders. Demonstrations are being restricted by large deployments of armed police officers and rangers. 
 These steps, however, have not quelled the momentum of the opposition, which has declared Saturday a day of protest and urged supporters to wear black armbands and hang black flags in a statement against Mr. Bush's visit.
 After six years of virtually unchallenged power, General Musharraf appears to be entering a rockier period as the opposition gathers itself. 
 The demonstrations and the sporadic violence have revealed the political tensions that are building in Pakistan a year ahead of planned elections, and may point to a rough ride ahead for General Musharraf and his cooperation with the United States.
 ''We will try to make him resign,'' said Qazi Hussein Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat-e-Islami, in an interview at his home, where he was placed after the demonstrations in Lahore. ''This is the moment of the workers and the people.'' 
 He denied that his followers were responsible for the recent violence. 
 The opposition has been implacable in its criticism of General Musharraf's seizure of power in 1999 and of his holding of the two posts of army chief and president, which he shows no sign of giving up, despite clear urging from the Commonwealth, among others. 
 Opposition politicians also accuse the United States of treating him as an important ally while ignoring the antidemocratic nature of his military coup. 
 ''The people of Pakistan are rather disappointed,'' said Mian Raza Rabbani, a senator and member of the largest political organization, the liberal-leaning Pakistan People's Party. ''They have seen the United States pay a great deal of lip service supporting democracy in Muslim countries, but when we look at what is happening in Pakistan, President Bush says he shares the president's views and his democratic vision for Pakistan. For a great many, that is flawed.''
 Today General Musharraf faces many pressures, some of his own making. The Pakistani military and police forces are battling armed insurrections in two of the four provinces, the North West Frontier Province and Baluchistan, where tension have built over the sharing of natural gas. 
 In the North West Frontier Province, which borders Afghanistan, the army is fighting a long campaign against Islamic extremists, including Taliban remnants. Many say Osama bin Laden may be hiding there. 
 The religious parties accuse the general of fighting a war against his own people in the tribal areas at the behest of America. The army has lost 400 soldiers there in the last two years, General Musharraf said in a recent television interview. 
 ''Pakistan has never been so unstable, and the federation has never been under greater political strain,'' Senator Rabbani said. 
 It is, above all, General Musharraf's failure to build a political base that is weakening him, analysts say. The Pakistan Muslim League, which he cobbled together to form a government, lacks unity and broad appeal.
 For nearly six years, it was hardly necessary. When he seized power, President Musharraf was widely welcomed by Pakistanis, such was the disgust and weariness with the corrupt and ineffective civilian governments. He is still the most popular politician in the country, according to one recent privately conducted poll. 
 He is seen as not corrupt -- a huge plus in a country where so many politicians are tainted with graft -- and he has brought a measure of economic prosperity. ''He's doing well. I think he's fine,'' said Muddasir Is Haq, 27, who owns a plumbing shop in Lahore. 
 On the other hand, the continual strikes and demonstrations called by the religious parties were hurting business, he said. 
 The general has managed to rule without serious political opposition in large measure by successfully dividing and manipulating the opposition political parties. 
 The leaders of the largest parties, two former prime ministers, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, remain in exile, accused of corruption, and their parties have withered in their absence. Even the legislators in parliament complain they are sidelined from much of the decision making.
 ''It's all dictated democracy, the real reins of power are with Musharraf,'' said Talat Masood, a retired general and political analyst in Islamabad. The demonstrations have been a sign of pent up frustrations, he said. ''The government has muzzled the political parties and they did this to vent their anger on the government.'' 
 Suggestions from members of the government that elections could be postponed until 2008, which would allow General Musharraf to be confirmed for a second term by the currently pliable Parliament, have also stirred up the opposition, Mr. Talat said.
 Maj. Gen. Shaukat Sultan, who acts as a spokesman for the Pakistani military and for President Musharraf, said the president was committed to the democratic process, and wanted parliamentary elections to take place next year, despite the suggestions by some in the government that elections be postponed. 
 The newly elected national and provincial assemblies would then elect a president. President Musharraf would serve another term if asked, and only then would he speak on whether he would give up his post as chief of the army, General Sultan said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At an air base in Islamabad yesterday, Mr. Bush's portrait was flanked by those of Gen. Pervez Musharraf, left, and Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)(pg. A5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (87%); TERRORISM (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); COUPS (77%); RIOTS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); ASSASSINATION (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (69%); HELICOPTERS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (65%) United States International Relations; Security and Warning Systems; Cartoons and Cartoonists; Demonstrations and Riots; Islam

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); BILL CLINTON (59%) Carlotta Gall; Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; Muhammad (Prophet) (C570-632); Pervez (Gen) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%) Pakistan; Islamabad (Pakistan); Denmark; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006



69 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 743 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
EMPIRE RISING, by Thomas Kelly. (Picador, $14.) ''Nothing,'' Kelly writes at the outset of his sprawling historical novel, ''gets built in Gotham without a kickback.'' He's referring to the construction of the Empire State Building in 1930, and the Irish immigrants and municipal graft that made it possible. At the story's center are Johnny Farrell, a corrupt mayoral aide, and Mike Briody, a construction worker who runs guns for the Irish Republican Army. Kelly mixes his fictional characters with historical ones, and the dialogue and atmospherics are pitch-perfect. In the Book Review, Joe Klein called ''Empire Rising'' an ''ode to urban grease; I'll never look at that grand old building the same way again.'' 
THE WHOLE EQUATION: A History of Hollywood, by David Thomson. (Vintage, $15.) For Thomson, ''the whole equation'' means ''not just the history of American movies, but the history of America in the time of movies.'' This ambitious book describes the groundbreaking work of early filmmakers; how the roles of directors, writers and producers changed as the movie business evolved; and how films have affected our sensibilities. In THE BIG PICTURE: Money and Power in Hollywood (Random House, $15.95), Edward Jay Epstein outlines the transformation of the movie business since the end of World War II and explains why movie studios are less interested in the moviegoing audience itself than an ever-growing variety of revenue sources (toy and burger tie-ins, video sales and rentals). In REBELS ON THE BACKLOT: Six Maverick Directors and How They Conquered the Hollywood Studio System (Harper Perennial, $14.95), Sharon Waxman, a Hollywood correspondent for The New York Times, profiles a group of iconoclastic filmmakers -- including Quentin Tarantino and Steven Soderbergh -- who, she writes, ''fought their way through the Hollywood system to bring their signature films into the daylight of broader popular culture.''
 GILGAMESH: A New English Version, by Stephen Mitchell. (Free Press, $14.) For years Mitchell has reinvented canonical texts of world literature (the Bhagavad-Gita, the Book of Job). This 4,000-year-old Mesopotamian epic is the story of Gilgamesh, who ruled over the city of Uruk, in what is now Iraq. When his beloved friend dies, Gilgamesh sets out on a quest for immortality. Mitchell builds his version on existing translations (the original poem survives today in fragments on thousands of small tablets of hardened clay). ''The muscular eloquence and rousing simplicity of Mitchell's four-beat line effectively unleash the grand vehemence of the epic's battle scenes,'' Joy Connolly wrote here.
 WHOSE BIBLE IS IT? A Short History of the Scriptures, by Jaroslav Pelikan. (Penguin, $15.) This overview, by an eminent Yale historian, provides a history of how the Bible came to be; a tour of the Hebrew Bible's contents and the formation of the New Testament; and a study of the change in attitudes toward the Bible since the Renaissance.
 SNOW FLOWER AND THE SECRET FAN, by Lisa See. (Random House, $13.95.) See's novel of 19th-century China follows two girls who pledge a lifelong friendship that sees them through arranged marriages, deaths and civil unrest. At the core of their bond is nu shu, a secret women's writing.
 THE DICTATORS: Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Russia, by Richard Overy. (Norton, $21.95.) Overy compares and contrasts the two regimes, concluding that their similarities far outweigh their differences. He examines the machinery of dictatorship, the workings of the command economy, the cult of personality and cultural and racial policy in each country. Our reviewer, Steven Merritt Miner, called ''The Dictators'' the ''most comprehensive, up-to-date and cogently argued comparison yet published.''
 HOME FIRES BURNING: Married to the Military -- for Better or Worse, by Karen Houppert. (Ballantine, $14.95.) This thoughtful study of military wives living near Fort Drum, N.Y., explores a range of issues from the merely depressing (flimsy housing) to the life-threatening (high rates of domestic abuse).
 FRANKLAND, by James Whorton Jr. (Free Press, $14.) The 28-year-old reluctant hero of Whorton's jaunty second novel is bound for Tennessee in pursuit of some lost papers of Andrew Johnson, the first president to be impeached. The trip ''provides us with a picaresque novel and an often funny exploration of slacker consciousness,'' Elizabeth Judd wrote in the Book Review. Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Kate Lacey
 courtesy of W. W. Norton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (87%); LITERATURE (78%); POETRY (78%); WRITERS (78%); MAYORS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); MOVIE REVENUES (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



70 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: March 5, 2006

 BODY:
 


	Weeks		This	On			 	 	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	3	THE CLOSERS, by Michael Connelly. (Warner, $7.99.) Detective Harry Bosch investigates the long-ago death of a 16-year-old girl.		 	 	2	3	CORDINA'S ROYAL FAMILY: GABRIELLA & ALEXANDER, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.99.) Reprints of two romances set on a Mediterranean isle.		 	 	3	3	IMPOSSIBLE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.99.) A romance blossoms between the owner of a Parisian art gallery and a bohemian painter.		 	 	4	13	THE BROKER, by John Grisham. (Dell, $7.99.) The C.I.A. arranges a presidential pardon for a power broker who may know crucial secrets. 		 	 	5	3	CRAZY IN LOVE, by Luanne Rice. (Bantam, $7.50.) The story, first published in 1988, of a woman worried she is losing her husband to Wall Street.		 	 	6	3	THE THIRD SECRET, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $7.99.) Present-day intrigue in the Vatican revolving around the Marian apparitions at Fatima in 1917.		 	 	7*	3	ORIGIN IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Berkley, $7.99.) In 2059, Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the killings of a father and son, both of whom were cosmetic surgeons; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	8	57	MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Vintage, $14.95; $7.99.) A young woman in Kyoto has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	9	3	SKELETON MAN, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperTorch, $7.99.) Sgt. Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police and Joe Leaphorn, a retired lieutenant, join forces on a case involving stolen diamonds and murder.		 	 	10	76	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how his childhood friend has fared under the Taliban.		 	 	11	5	GILEAD, by Marilynne Robinson. (Picador/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $14.) A story of fathers and sons that reaches back to the abolitionist movement and into the 1950's, narrated by a 76-year-old Iowa pastor.		 	 	12	7	HONEYMOON, by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. (Warner, $13.95.) An F.B.I. agent investigating a beautiful and mysterious woman finds himself becoming obsessed with her.		 	 	13	2	BREAKWATER, by Carla Neggers. (Mira, $7.99.) A former government analyst investigating a friend's death crosses paths with an undercover agent.		 	 	14	1	THE RESCUE, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner Vision, $7.50.) A fireman helps a single mother search for her missing son, a 4-year-old with severe learning disabilities.		 	 	15	127	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) A Harvard scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	5	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	22	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this memoir contains numerous fabrications. 		 	 	3	53	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	4	19	FLYBOYS, by James Bradley. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95; $7.99.) Eight American airmen shot down and captured by the Japanese in World War II.		 	 	5	80	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	6	6	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved. 		 	 	7	8	THREE WEEKS WITH MY BROTHER, by Nicholas Sparks and Micah Sparks. (Warner, $13.95.) The novelist and his sibling describe their world trip. 		 	 	8	9	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	9	7	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	10	105	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of an architect and a serial killer, linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	11	4	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Bantam, $5.50.) The original English translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald.		 	 	12	6	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals.		 	 	13	181	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	14*	153	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Broadway, $12.95; Anchor, $6.99.) The author, a sportswriter, tells of his visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door. 		 	 	15	3	SMASHED, by Koren Zailckas. (Penguin, $14.) A young woman remembers her excessive drinking throughout high school and college.		 	 	16*	12	THE END OF FAITH, by Sam Harris. (Norton, $13.95.) The clash between reason and religion.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	162	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 	2	3	IF YOU COULD SEE WHAT I SEE, by Sylvia Browne. (Hay House, $24.95.) A professed psychic offers 21 principles for living.		 	 	3	69	YOUR BEST LIFE NOW, by Joel Osteen. (Warner Faith, $19.99.) A faith-based approach to living with enthusiasm. ()		 	 	4	9	LOVE SMART, by Phil McGraw. (Free Press, $26.) Dr. Phil gives advice on finding a relationship or fixing the one you already have.		 	 	5	33	NATURAL CURES ''THEY'' DON'T WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT, by Kevin Trudeau. (Alliance Publishing Group, $29.95.) Remedies that do not include drugs or surgery. ()		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	16	365: NO REPEATS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $19.95.) A year's worth of dinner recipes from the Food Network host.		 	 	2	1	YOU: THE SMART PATIENT, by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz. (Free Press, $14.95.) A guide to navigating the American health care system.		 	 	3	253	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) For parents-to-be. ()		 	 	4	38	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan devised by a Miami cardiologist.		 	 	5	9	THE BIGGEST LOSER, by Maggie Greenwood-Robinson et al. (Rodale, $18.95.) A diet and exercise program adapted from the weight-loss reality TV show.		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 18, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WOMEN (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); RELIGION (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (65%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (73%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%); HOLY SEE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



71 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: March 5, 2006

 BODY:
 


		Weeks		This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	THE 5TH HORSEMAN, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) Detective Lindsay Boxer and the Women's Murder Club investigate unexplained deaths at a San Francisco hospital.		 	 	 	2	1	4	CELL, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $26.95.) What remains of humanity fights to survive after a mysterious force scrambles cellphone users' brains.		 	 	 	3	2	152	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	4	5	5	THE LAST TEMPLAR, by Raymond Khoury. (Dutton, $24.95.) A coding device stolen from an exhibit of Vatican artifacts may hold clues to the medieval Knights Templar's long-lost treasure -- and their secrets.		 	 	 	5	4	2	SEA CHANGE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $24.95.) Jesse Stone, the police chief of Paradise, Mass., searches for the killer of a woman whose body washed ashore.		 	 	 	6		1	IN THE COMPANY OF THE COURTESAN, by Sarah Dunant. (Random House, $23.95.) A courtesan and her friend and pimp, a dwarf, make their way in Renaissance Venice.		 	 	 	7	3	4	MEMORY IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lt. Eve Dallas tracks the killer of a woman who was blackmailing her; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	8	6	2	LOVERS & PLAYERS, by Jackie Collins. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) After their father calls them together, Red Diamond's three sons (and their friends and relations) grapple with sex, secrets and murders on both coasts.		 	 	 	9	7	3	GONE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $25.) A former F.B.I. profiler searches for the kidnapper of his ex-wife.		 	 	 	10	11	14	MARY, MARY, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The F.B.I. agent Alex Cross tracks a Hollywood killer who announces the crimes via e-mail.		 	 	 	11	9	3	OUTBOUND FLIGHT, by Timothy Zahn. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) In a new ''Star Wars'' novel, a Jedi mission to colonize worlds beyond the known galaxy becomes a fight for survival.		 	 	 	12*	8	7	THE HOSTAGE, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer probes the murder of an American diplomat and the kidnapping of his wife.		 	 	 	13	10	4	THE HUNT CLUB, by John Lescroart. (Dutton, $26.95.) A private investigator, a homicide detective and their friends search for the murderer of a local judge.		 	 	 	14	12	18	AT FIRST SIGHT, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) The young couple from ''True Believer,'' who are now expecting a child, receive a disturbing message.		 	 	 	15	15	11	S IS FOR SILENCE, by Sue Grafton. (Marian Wood/Putnam, $26.95.) Kinsey Millhone searches for a woman who disappeared 34 years ago.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	18	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	2	2	46	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization.		 	 	 	3	7	4	YOU'RE WEARING THAT?, by Deborah Tannen. (Random House, $24.95.) How mothers and daughters communicate.		 	 	 	4	3	45	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	5	6	2	MANHUNT, by James L. Swanson. (Morrow, $26.95.) The 12-day pursuit of John Wilkes Booth after his assassination of Abraham Lincoln.		 	 	 	6	4	20	THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) The author's attempts to come to terms with the death of her husband and the grave illness of their only daughter.		 	 	 	7	8	7	FOR LACI, by Sharon Rocha. (Crown, $25.95.) Laci Peterson's mother recalls her daughter and describes her killer's trial.		 	 	 	8	5	20	MY FRIEND LEONard, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $24.95.) The author of ''A Million Little Pieces,'' which both author and publisher acknowledge contains numerous fabrications, writes about a helpful mobster.		 	 	 	9	9	55	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	10	14	17	TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln, from the author of ''No Ordinary Time.''		 	 	 	11	12	19	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	12*	10	16	OUR ENDANGERED VALUES, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The former president warns against blurring politics and fundamentalist religion.		 	 	 	13		1	BEYOND BAND OF BROTHERS, by Dick Winters with Cole C. Kingseed. (Berkley Caliber, $24.95.) The war memoirs of the commander of Easy Company, made famous by Stephen Ambrose's ''Band of Brothers.''		 	 	 	14	15	14	TEACHER MAN, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $26.) The author of ''Angela's Ashes'' remembers his years teaching high school English in New York City.		 	 	 	15		1	LAST DANCE, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) Behind the scenes at the N.C.A.A. Final Four.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 18, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

EAT, PRAY, LOVE: One Woman's Search for Everything Across Italy, India and Indonesia, by Elizabeth Gilbert. (Viking, $24.95.) A charismatic but troubled traveler seeks a balance of pleasure and devotion -- and finds romance.
 THE COURTIER AND THE HERETIC: Leibniz, Spinoza, and the Fate of God in the Modern World, by Matthew Stewart. (Norton, $25.95.) An unlikely page-turner about a 17th-century metaphysical duel, fought in deceit and intrigue, that continues to this day.
 PURITY OF BLOOD, by Arturo Perez-Reverte. Translated by Margaret Sayers Peden. (Putnam, $23.95.) Swashbuckling swordplay, the Inquisition and an evil friar are all part of Spain's dark answer to Dumas. 
 RATTLED, by Debra Galant. (St. Martin's, $21.95.)In this satirical debut novel, old-timers face off against a family of parvenus in a suburb built over a snake sanctuary. 
 THE FILM SNOB'S DICTIONARY, by David Kamp with Lawrence Levi. (Broadway, paper, $11.95.) A sharp guide to the movie world leaves some indie heroes tersely skewered. 
 STRIVERS ROW, by Kevin Baker. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Evoking a vanished world, characters real and imagined brush together in the tense lead-up to the 1943 Harlem riot.
 EAT THE DOCUMENT, by Dana Spiotta. (Scribner, $24.) After years underground, 70's radicals reunite and face their crime's consequences.
 COMPANY, by Max Barry. (Doubleday, $22.95.) Joseph Heller meets Dilbert meets workers you know in this biting, fast-paced corporate spoof. 
 A FAMILY DAUGHTER, by Maile Meloy. (Scribner, $24.) A California clan is unnerved when one of their own writes a semi-autobiographical novel. 
 THE FUGITIVE WIFE, by Peter C. Brown. (Norton, $24.95.) A Minnesota farm girl flees her alcoholic husband and joins the Alaska gold rush.
 UTTERLY MONKEY, by Nick Laird. (Harper Perennial, paper, $13.95.) Ulster follows a lawyer to London in this boisterous comic caper. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); POLICE FORCES (67%); ARMIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (79%); JAMES PATTERSON (78%); STEPHEN KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



72 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: When Renderings Clash With Reality

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: MONTCLAIR 

 BODY:
AS the first of 10 huge homes being built on the site of the former Marlboro Inn began to rise last fall toward its full height and breadth, so did the hue and cry.
 ''Montclair monstrosities!'' thundered resident critics on a blog called the Montclair Watercooler. ''Monster houses,'' moaned one writer in a letter to The Montclair Times, the weekly newspaper. ''Homes on steroids,'' added a Baristanet blogger, after a look last month at the finished frame of the first 5,000-square-foot house standing cheek by jowl to the emerging frames of three others.
The 2.36-acre Marlboro Inn tract is bordered on three sides by streets -- Watchung Avenue, Grove Street and Christopher Street -- and the houses, which have no yards to speak of, are a mere six feet from curbside on Watchung. Some are closer than that to a new street cut down the middle of the property going from Christopher to Grove.
 Steven Plofker, the original developer, who has sold the project to American Properties of Iselin, had described the plan as a type of ''New Urbanism'' in presentations to the local planning and zoning boards. The developer emphasized that front porches would all face the interior street and be set congenially close to one another. 
 But on Watchung, the backs of four massive houses now under construction, set about 12 feet apart, create a barricade effect in the eyes of many onlookers. The houses tower over the sidewalk, and stand taller than any surrounding homes, several of which were recently placed on the market.
 The new houses at the Hempstead at Montclair, as the development is called, are just going on the market now, at a price of $1.7 million each. 
 Mayor Ed Remsen, assailed in many blog entries and letters for having supported demolition of the history-laden former inn building last year and for voting to give final approval to the dense residential development, assailed the Hempstead houses himself recently in a Baristanet note: ''For the record, I HATE the McMansions.''
 So, all around town residents are asking how and why the project was approved and if there is a way to stop it from happening again.
 The angry blogsters heave their invective in two general directions: at greedy developers and at politicians and appointees they see as too craven to stand up to greedy developers.
 But another sort of subdemon has bubbled up from the cauldron of public opinion: the lovely renderings of the buildings that were distributed during the planning stages. They were so pretty they disguised the truth, in the eyes of Kevin Lee Allen, a design consultant, and Mark Porter, the editor of The Montclair Times, among others who have complained in the last couple of months.
 Mr. Porter wrote an editorial in February calling the architectural renderings of the Hempstead produced by the firm of Zampolin & Associates of Westwood, ''fantasies that could not possibly exist in 2005.''
 ''The illustrations display houses on wooded tracts with bucolic layers of trees vanishing to the horizon,'' the editorial observed. ''Some overhanging branches appear subtropical. Despite the existing houses built on Christopher and Grove Streets, the renderings show no other nearby abodes.'' Zampolin did not respond to phone messages seeking comment.
 Mr. Allen, meanwhile, did a ''reverse perspective'' analysis of the site plan drawings, posting on Baristanet his conclusion that the drawings implied homes about half as big as those being built. Mr. Plofker himself noted when he appeared before the planning board that the existing zoning allowed as many as 12 houses to be built on the site, although they would have had to be smaller in size. 
 Mr. Allen noted that the drawings submitted for the 10-home plan were ''pictures,'' not the technical drawings that developers are also required to submit to planners. 
 But reading technical drawings takes some skill, Mr. Allen observed. Michael Gorman, the director of project development for NK Architects of Morristown and also the chairman of the planning board in Millburn, said the responsibility for acquiring that skill rests with planning board members.
 ''The issue in Montclair, or anywhere else,'' Mr. Gorman said, ''is whether the planning board members asked the right questions. If they did not, then shame on them.''
 A new state law was recently passed, Mr. Gorman said, that requires all members of planning boards to pass a basic skills test within 18 months of being named. The Department of Community Affairs is currently developing the test and a course of instruction.
 There are no laws covering artful illusion, of course.
 The Montclair Times editorial called for planners to come up with new regulations requiring developers of significantly sized projects to provide ''proof'' of what their projects will look like in context, suggesting that three-dimensional scale models including adjacent structures, open areas and roadways would be most appropriate.
 But several planners and developers more or less shrugged -- or laughed -- when asked about how to ensure that what is rendered is built.
 ''Look at this!'' Wasseem Boraie of Boraie Development fairly crowed, showing off a scale model of the 125-unit condo building his family's company has just completed in downtown New Brunswick. ''Look at the model, and look out the window at the building. They're the same, right? How often do you see that? Almost never.'' As for the reason, Mr. Boraie said it comes down to builders' desire to cut costs.
 Paul Sionas, an architect who has worked with Mr. Plofker on past projects in Montclair, said architects often lose control of the finished product. ''Probably 90 percent of what we design winds up not looking like what we drew,'' he said.
 The reasons for that , according to Mr. Sionas, ''range from 'real budget constraints,' to 'perceived budget constraints,' a contractor knowing better, a developer knowing better.'' He said, ''It's pretty upsetting.''
 Meanwhile, members of the Montclair boards are not laying claim to having been duped by drawings. Mostly, they have remained silent on the issue of the Hempstead at Montclair. But one, the town planner, Karen Kadus, a municipal employee who also sits on the planning board, said she has observed both agencies becoming more diligent about determining how closely builders intend to hew to plans they present, and more insistent about getting ''realistic depictions'' of how a proposed structure would fit into the general environment at a site.
 ''The Hempstead developer took the buildings to the legal maximum size,'' Ms. Kadus said. ''It's entirely legal, but it is kind of shocking to see what the maximum looks like.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CLOSE QUARTERS -- Ten homes are under construction on the 2.36 acre site where the Marlboro Inn stood. A rendering suggested the yards would be much bigger. (Photos by Dith Pran/The New York Times, above
 Zampolin & Associates Architects, below)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); MAYORS (85%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ZONING (76%); WRITERS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); CITIES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%) Housing; Tests and Testing; Models and Replicas; Law and Legislation; Housing

PERSON: Antoinette Martin; Ed (Mayor) Remsen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%) New Jersey; Montclair (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



73 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Bridge Plan Rattles Seattle Enclave 

BYLINE: By LINDA BAKER

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
IN 1993, Jonathan Dubman, a former business analyst and software engineer for Microsoft, bought a five-bedroom Cape in the city's Montlake neighborhood. He said he chose Montlake, which borders Lake Washington, because of its central location near the University of Washington and the Washington Park Arboretum. He also liked the neighborhood's ''lack of ostentation'' and proximity to Route 520, a freeway that cuts through the neighborhood before crossing the lake and touching ground in Medina, home of Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman. 
 ''One factor was the commute,'' Mr. Dubman said. 
 Thirteen years later, Mr. Dubman is helping to lead a neighborhood battle against one of Seattle's biggest transportation projects in decades: a $3 billion replacement and expansion of the Route 520 bridge, which is considered vulnerable to earthquakes. The huge highway project involves widening local streets and increasing the number of people traveling through the corridor. 
 It also begins another chapter in the history of an iconic Seattle neighborhood and the freeway that runs through it. In 1972, Montlake rallied successfully, and famously, to prevent construction of the RH Thomson Expressway, which would have cut directly through the arboretum. 
 ''It's our turn to fight,'' Mr. Dubman said. 
 Situated across a historic drawbridge from the University of Washington, and within walking distance of Lake Washington swimming holes, Montlake has always been one of Seattle's most desirable neighborhoods. A 10-minute bus ride from downtown, the community boasts views of the Cascades, tree-lined streets and a stock of 1920's Tudors and bungalows. In his book about the neighborhood, Eugene Smith, a retired University of Washington English professor, described Montlake as an ''urban Eden.'' 
 Over the last 15 years, Montlake demographics have shifted with rising property values. Once dominated by University of Washington faculty members and employees of the Boeing Company, the neighborhood now attracts more high-tech executives, said Kim Knowles, a local real estate agent. And as Montlake changes economically, so, too, has its political approach. 
 ''Montlake is more pragmatic than it used to be,'' said Bob Mahon, president of the Montlake Community Club and a steering committee member of BetterBridge.org, a new grassroots organization. ''But I take pride in the neighborhood's history of activism. It's a good brand.'' 
 Mr. Dubman, who is a liaison to the state's highway advisory committee, said he became involved in the freeway project after realizing that the existing Washington State Department of Transportation alternatives would not only worsen traffic problems along the jammed Montlake interchange but also do nothing to connect the expanded freeway to the city's pending light rail project, Sound Transit. ''We were in despair,'' he said. 
 So last February, Mr. Dubman and several other residents unveiled a radical new approach calling for a soaring suspension bridge that would shift the freeway on-and-off ramps from Montlake to a new intersection at the University of Washington, just north of the Montlake Bridge near Husky Stadium. 
 The Montlake plan, which has since evolved from a suspension bridge to an overpass, was greeted with interest by project staff, City Council members and even Doug MacDonald, the secretary of transportation. Last fall, the state delayed the Route 520 draft environmental statement to study the new proposal, which is called the Pacific Interchange. 
 ''You're not invited to the table if all you can say is no,'' said Rob Wilkinson, a Montlake photographer and urban planner who had enlisted the support of the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava in the original design. ''You can achieve so much more if you come up with an alternative,'' he said. 
 Mr. Wilkinson, who is 58, is a former employee of the University of Washington Department of Community Development, which provided planning support during Montlake's fight against the RH Thomson Expressway 30 years ago. Mr. Dubman, who is 38, cashed out his Microsoft stock options in 1993 to buy a house near Montlake Elementary School. Their solution -- a better freeway but still a freeway -- is not the only sign of changing times. In 1996, the average house price in Montlake was about $250,000. This year it is $700,000.
 Montlake likes to think of itself as middle class, said Ken Schubert, a local lawyer whose 1929 Tudor has a market value of more than $850,000. ''That image is becoming a little harder to maintain,'' he said.
 Proponents of the Pacific Interchange said the plan, which includes a park over the Montlake section of Route 520, would restore a greenbelt between the arboretum and Portage Bay west of the Montlake Bridge. It would also relieve heavy traffic on the quaint drawbridge, which is the northern gateway to Route 520, and connect freeway buses to a future light rail stop near Husky Stadium. In September, the Montlake Community Club unanimously passed a resolution in favor of the Pacific Interchange. 
 But not everyone in Montlake is so enthusiastic. ''The answer to this corridor is mass transit,'' said Roger van Oosten, who lives less than a block from Route 520 and is holding out for a no-build solution. 
 Doris Burns, 79, a longtime activist who led the battle against the RH Thomson highway, said, ''Let the freeway sink.'' 
 Although Montlake, the University of Washington and the arboretum are within a quarter mile of one another, the communities have taken opposing approaches to the project alternatives. The Pacific Interchange would encroach on university property and increase traffic, said Theresa Doherty, assistant vice president of regional affairs for the University of Washington. ''At this point we don't see how those negative impacts could be mitigated,'' she said. 
 Larry Sinnott, a board member of Friends of Seattle's Olmstead Parks, said removal of the Montlake ramps would force more cars through the arboretum, which connects to another freeway interchange. ''The Better Bridge makes Montlake traffic better but everything else worse,'' he said. 
 This summer, the Washington State Department of Transportation will select a preferred alternative for the Route 520 project. Construction on the project is expected to take about eight years. 
 New residents are undeterred. Several years ago, Marilynn Dunn, vice president for development at the University of Washington, bought a house a half block from the Montlake Bridge and a block from Route 520. ''We worried a lot about the freeway,'' said Ms. Dunn, adding that her husband was eager to live within walking distance of Husky Stadium. ''But one of the wonderful things about this neighborhood is that good minds always prevail.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: 'URBAN EDEN' UNDER FIRE -- Jonathan Dubman, above, is helping to lead a neighborhood battle against a $3 billion replacement and expansion of the Route 520 bridge. The highway cuts through Seattle's Montlake neighborhood, a tree-lined community with views of the Cascades and a stock of 1920's Tudors and bungalows. (Photographs by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); LAKES (77%); HISTORY (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (64%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (64%); BAB (BRU) (64%); BA (NYSE) (64%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%) WASHINGTON, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



74 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/The Village of Roslyn, N.Y.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1783 words

HEADLINE: A Passion for Living With the Past

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
WITH a lively, close-knit commercial center and dozens of handsome buildings from the 19th century -- not to mention a deep-seated passion in the community to keep them looking the part -- the village of Roslyn is, with respect to Long Island, something of an anomaly.
 While many parts of the island were transformed by huge new housing developments after World War II, the village of Roslyn was passed by, and residents still live in small homes that in some cases predate the nation. The commercial district was also spared. The downtown's main street is lined with independently owned markets and upscale boutiques, often situated in historic buildings.
Cathy Giliberti, a resident of Roslyn, said: ''It's all right there, the manicurist, hair salon, bakery, hardware store. It's just like Norman Rockwell.'' 
 Eight years ago, Ms. Giliberti, an executive with the real estate developer Silverstein Properties in Manhattan, bought a 3,500-square-foot house in the village with four bedrooms and two and a half baths, for $600,000. The older section of the house dates from 1770, with the newer part added in 1863. 
 Like most of Roslyn's buildings, Ms. Giliberti's home on Main Street is also listed in the National Register of Historic Places, giving the community a museumlike imprimatur of a Colonial Williamsburg -- a former stonemason's cottage here, a lawyer's estate there -- but with none of the actors in period costume.
 ''I can stand at the duck pond across from my house and look at the same streetscape that somebody in the 1770's looked at,'' Ms. Giliberti said. ''It's absolutely unique.''
 That one-of-a-kind quality drew many artists and musicians in the 1960's, when the downtown was more likely to be filled with galleries and nightclubs, where, as a teenager, Ms. Giliberti saw some concerts.
 Roslyn is clearly less rowdy today, but it still has a thriving nightlife, though now the scene is more about restaurant-bars than rock clubs. 
 ''I've lived here as a single, married, and divorced person, and it's been comfortable at every stage,'' Ms. Giliberti said.

What You'll Find
 With 2,700 residents, the village of Roslyn, part of the Town of North Hempstead, is squeezed like a wishbone into a narrow valley at the southern tip of Hempstead Harbor, off Long Island Sound.
 Most of Roslyn's historic homes are located in the low-lying areas away from the harbor and were built in the same era, the mid-1800's. Most are also painted in the same color scheme, with black shutters and white shingles. The homes, however, are built in a smattering of styles: Greek Revival, Italianate, French Second Empire and Federal.
 By modern standards, the typical home isn't huge, usually measuring around 2,500 square feet, though most have at least three bedrooms, brokers say. The lots, though, are tiny, a quarter acre or smaller, and with tall ridges behind them, are often cloaked in shadows.
 But what they lack in yards can often be found in next-door Gerry Park -- a patchwork of lawns, ponds, walkways, benches, a gazebo and a playground that also contains a replica of a water-wheel-powered paper mill from Roslyn's earlier days. 
 In an old community like Roslyn, ''newer'' is a relative term, but newer homes do exist. In the 1950's and 60's, spacious ranches on half-acre lots were built along the hill on the western edge of the village. 
 In addition, two developments are rising from a former asphalt storage facility in a marshy area adjacent to the harbor. The first, called the Horizon at Roslyn, from the developer David Marom of Hauppauge, is to have 50 rental units for tenants aged 55 and older. Thirty-two will be two-bedrooms, measuring 1,100 to 1,300 square feet, and 18 will be three-bedrooms, measuring 1,300 to 1,700 square feet. 
 The Horizon is expected to open in the spring of 2007, Mr. Marom said.
 The second, called Sterling Glen of Roslyn, designed by Robert A. M. Stern in the style of an 18th-century inn, will add 158 one- and two-bedroom apartment rental units to the market when it is completed this fall; 60 of the homes are under contract, said Kevin Hunter, the chief operating officer of Sterling Glen. 
 ''A lot of the interest in the community right now is from the fact that we are right on the water with panoramic views,'' Mr. Hunter said.
 But for at least a while, the view will be one of cranes and scaffolding. The Roslyn Viaduct, the busy automobile bridge built in 1949 that carries Route 25A across the valley, is being replaced in a $127 million project, and one that won't be completed until mid-2008, according to the New York State Department of Transportation.
 When the bridge is built, the area below it will ultimately feature a five-acre public park, according to developers, in addition to a boardwalk that will connect the Horizon and Sterling Glen with the weathered gray grist mill on Old Northern Boulevard, a structure declared a landmark that used to contain a cafe but has been closed since the mid-1970's.

What You'll Pay
 The average home price in Roslyn today is $800,000, whereas five years ago, the average was about $500,000, brokers say.
 The larger, older homes can command prices above $1 million, yet brokers said nothing has sold for more than $2 million. 
 Last March, a home in the historic district on Main Street, with six bedrooms and three and a half baths, sold for $1.75 million. Last month, also on Main Street, an older house with two bedrooms and two and half baths sold for $900,000.
 And in January, on East Broadway, the desirable one-way street that runs along the eastern edge of Gerry Park, an older home with four bedrooms and two baths sold for $925,000.
 Brokers agree that the market has cooled in the last six months. A year ago, a home still sold about every three months, though now it's about every six months, according to Diane Stigliano, a broker with Daniel Gale Sotheby's International Realty. 
 Yet even though buyers aren't getting a large yard or much square feet for their money relative to other Nassau County communities, she said, there are intangibles that come with buying in Roslyn. ''You're paying for history,'' Ms. Stigliano said. ''You could never recreate the architecture in these homes.''

What to Do
 The downtown, which is anchored by a tall and iconic clock tower, has a surprising variety of bistros, cafes and restaurants, with Mexican, Italian and seafood menus. 
 For more scholarly pursuits, the George Washington Manor, a restaurant located in a historic home on Old Northern Boulevard, once a month holds a well-attended lecture sponsored by the Roslyn Landmarks Society on a preservation or decorative arts topic. And the Bryant Library, built as a community center in 1920 and now holding 100,000 books, has jazz music for children, babysitting workshops for young adults and readings by authors, during afternoons and evenings.

The Schools
 In a scandal that has unfolded over the last few years, prosecutors and auditors accused 29 people, including some of the top officials of the Roslyn Union Free School District, of stealing $11.2 million. The accused included the district's superintendent, Frank Tassone, who, with some of the others charged, pleaded guilty and agreed to repay some of the missing money. 
 For its part, the school system, which has a new school board and administrators in place, wants to put the scandal behind it. ''We're under new management,'' said Barry Edelson, the school spokesman. ''And the district is still very proud of our students' record.''
 The district, which serves the village of Roslyn as well as neighboring communities like Roslyn Heights and Roslyn Harbor, has five schools for its 3,400 students.
 The Heights School provides classes in prekindergarten through first grade, while students in Grades 2 to 5 attend the East Hills School. Both are located in Roslyn Heights. Other students attend the Harbor Hill School, located in nearby Greenvale, which offers instruction in Grades 1 to 5. 
 For Grades 6 to 8, students head to Roslyn Middle School, in Roslyn Heights. 
 Roslyn High School, meanwhile, teaches Grades 9 to 12 at its Roslyn Heights campus. The class of 2005 scored an average of 605 on the math section of the SAT and 582 on the verbal, far better than the 511 math and 497 verbal statewide averages.

The History
 In a village as self-consciously historic as Roslyn -- carefully worded plaques on rocks and signs on posts tell what happened when -- you're never too far from something old and important.
 Even though historians debate whether some facts are true, like whether a Continental Army spy ring really did run through here during the Revolutionary War, one fact is less contentious: how the village got its name.
 Back in the early 1840's, the village's 42 residents were fed up with the original name, Hempstead Harbor, because they felt there were too many places around them using the name ''Hempstead.'' In a letter to officials in Washington, according to Myrna Sloam, the archivist at the Bryant Library, they complained that the name Hempstead was ''a serious inconvenience in our village particularly in our post office arrangements.''
 One of those frustrated residents, William Cairns, suggested changing it to Roslyn, honoring Roslin Castle, in Scotland, a place with steep valleys, and his ancestral home. So, ''Roslyn'' was born. However, because of the many adjacent ''Roslyns'' -- a sometimes confusing melange of Roslyn Heights, Roslyn Harbor and Roslyn Estates -- residents arguably are not much better off today than they were in the Hempstead days.

The Commute
 Driving to the city can take anywhere from less than an hour to two hours, depending on the traffic, day of the week, and season, according to those who make the trip.
 Others prefer to take the train. Roslyn has its own Long Island Rail Road station, located just outside the village. The train, which has a connection in Jamaica, Queens, makes the trip in about 50 minutes at peak times. Many residents say they prefer to use nearby stations like Manhasset, which is about 10 minutes faster and does not require a change.

What We Like
 With 100 structures within the sprawling National Register district, Roslyn's homes and businesses are distinct and attractive. To keep them that way, the village is currently drafting a set of guidelines that could regulate things like house paint color, according to John Collins, president of the Roslyn Preservation Corporation, a nonprofit group.

What We'd Change
 Some drivers act like Main Street is a racetrack, and the speeding cars can make it difficult for residents to pull their cars out of driveways, or for pedestrians to cross the street.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A VILLAGE OF ANTIQUES -- A string of businesses on a stretch of Old Northern Boulevard in Roslyn, N.Y. Many of the homes in the village were built in the mid-1800's. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)
On the Market: 148 MAIN STREET -- This three-bedroom, two-bath Italianate house, built in 1855, has a detached garage, and lists for $995,000. (516) 633-7470.
198 MAIN STREET -- This 1,350-square-foot colonial, built in 1838, has two bedrooms and one and half baths, and is listed at $599,000. (917) 821-5798.
 69 MOTT AVENUE -- This 1,400-square-foot house, built in 1923, has two bedrooms and one bath, and is listed at $525,000. (516) 852-7354.Map of New York State highlighting Roslyn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BAKERIES (68%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (68%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); MUSIC (62%); WORLD WAR II (56%) Geographic Profiles; Bridges and Tunnels; Roads and Traffic; Area Planning and Renewal; Light Rail Systems; Bridges and Tunnels

PERSON: C J Hughes; Linda Baker; Jonathan Dubman

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Roslyn (NY); Seattle (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



75 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
OSTROFF, HAROLD

 BODY:
 OSTROFF--Harold, on March 2nd, 2006. Husband of the late Frieda. Father of Madelon and Philip Braun and the late Sandra Ostroff. Grandfather of Kelli and Andrew Braun, Jessica and Andrew Rich, Alison Gottlieb and Geoffrey Friedman, Debra and Pat Ewing. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Matthew, Sam and Coby. Beloved best friend of Adrian Bernick. A man whose warmth, integrity and passionate commitment to improving the lives of others will always inspire. Services Sunday, 12 noon, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC. Donations in his memory may be made to Workmen's Circle Center for Social and Economic Justice, 45 E. 33rd St., NYC 10016 or YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, 15 W. 16th St., NYC 10011. 
 $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The Board of Directors and staff of Amalgamated Bank mourn the passing of our close friend, client and colleague. He shared our commitment to working people and was a strong advocate of cooperative housing developments, first at the Amalgamated Housing Cooperative in the Bronx and later at the United Housing Foundation. He was instrumental in helping create tens of thousands of beautiful housing units in New York City for low and moderate income families. In 1990, he was elected to the National Cooperative Hall of Fame in Washington, DC. He also worked tirelessly to improve conditions for working men and women through his long-time association with the Workmen's Circle and its newspaper, The Forward. He will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bruce Raynor Chairman of the Board Derrick Cephas President and CEO Leonard Maisel Senior Vice President Hyman Federman First Vice President 
 $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. We mourn the loss of our friend, neighbor and longtime cooperator (a pioneer no less!), Harold Ostroff. From early childhood until his last few years, Harold was one of us. He dedicated his life to the cooperative ideals our community was built on, and through UHF, expanded cooperative housing opportunities for many more families. A member of the Cooperative Hall of Fame, we are proud of his career. We remain true to his ideals and will miss our friend. Our hearts are with the family. Amalgamated Houses Park Reservoir Houses Bronx, NY 
 $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring mourns the passing of its beloved leader, Harold Ostroff. We have lost a giant. Harold served four terms as President of The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring, bringing vitality to every level of our organization. Harold's clarity of vision and passion for Jewish community, Yiddish culture and social justice inspire us. Our loving condolences to his cherished children Maddy and Philip, grandchildren Andrew, Jessica, Alison and Debra and their families. Nat'l Executive Board of The Workmen's Circle Peter Pepper, President Rob't Kestenbaum, Exec Dir 
 $(6$)OSTROFF -- Harold. The members of the Forward Association and the employees of the Forward Newspapers mourn the passing of Harold Ostroff at age 82 on March 2, 2006. He was a life long champion of the working man and defender of labor rights. As General Manager for over two difficult decades he saved the Yiddish Forverts and launched the Forward in English in 1990. To all who knew of him, he was a giant. To all who knew him, he was a mentsch. Zol di erd af im gring zayn. Barnett Zumoff, President Samuel Norich, Exec Dir 
 $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. The Officers and Directors of Parkside Memorial Chapels mark with profound sorrow the passing of our good friend. Harold's warm and compassionate demeanor will be missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences are extended to his devoted children, Madelon and Philip Braun, his best friend, Adrian Bernick, and his loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Edward S. Goldstein Secretary David E. Goldstein Vice President 
 $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. We mourn the passing of our Chairman and leader. Both an idealist and a pragmatist, he was truly a giant in the development of affordable cooperative housing. His wisdom, guidance and enduring friendship will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his loving family. Irving J. Alter, David Smith, Harvey Sigelbaum and Ed Yaker, Board of Directors Ken Wray, Exec. Director United Housing Foundation 
 $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. Friend, mentor, wise man, an inspiration to all whose life he has touched. What a legacy he leaves to all of us--kindness, warmth and fierce commitment to causes of social justice. We cannot count the ways in which he will be missed--except to know there will never be a day when one of us doesn't say, ''What does Harold think?'' Rest in peace. Vladeck, Waldman, Elias & Engelhard, P.C. 
 $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. The Tamiment Institute deeply mourns the death of its longtime Board member. A man of remarkable vision and determination, he unselfishly devoted himself to the preservation of Jewish culture and the social welfare of all humanity. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Mitchel Levitas, President Myron Kolatch, Secretary 
 $(6$)OSTROFF--Harold. Our beloved cousin Heshie was always there for family. We will remember him with love and respect. William and Helen Slivka 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CHILDREN (87%); MEN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORKMEN'S CIRCLE (83%); YIVO INSTITUTE FOR JEWISH RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: J WAYNE LEONARD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



76 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to Long Island. Now Cut Electric Rates.

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
DURING the Revolutionary War, the redcoats occupied Long Island longer than any other place in the Colonies. Now, 222 years later, the British are back -- this time in business suits, armed with billions to buy KeySpan, the private partner in the private-public system that supplies energy to Long Island.
 It will take a long time to complete the $7.3 billion acquisition of KeySpan by the British company, National Grid -- a deal that was formally announced on Monday. Approvals from regulators are at least a year away, and it remains a matter of conjecture whether significant local opposition will develop.
The two companies promised a seamless transition, with no negative effects for Long Island energy customers and no Union Jacks on KeySpan trucks. National Grid, based in London, already owns a large upstate utility, holding out the promise of economies of scale and cost savings. 
 But in the early going, Richard M. Kessel, the chairman of the Long Island Power Authority, the public half of Long Island's power supply system, is already pressing for concessions that would lower electric rates. ''This is a $7.3 billion deal, and some of that money ought to go to LIPA customers to lower those bills that people are so upset about,'' Mr. Kessel said in an interview on Monday. ''We're not opposed to the deal, and it may be a good deal, but we have got to look at what's in it for LIPA customers.''
 Late on Wednesday following an initial meeting, Mr. Kessel; Robert B. Catell, KeySpan's chairman and chief executive; Michael E. Jesanis, chief executive of National Grid USA; and Steve Holiday, the group chief executive-designate for National Grid, said they had agreed on a team that would address issues LIPA has raised and would examine potential benefits to LIPA customers from the acquisition. 
 Some of the power authority's customers are more than just upset about rates. They filed a suit in State Supreme Court in Mineola on Feb. 22, seeking class-action status and complaining that the authority improperly disguised rate increases as fuel-adjustment surcharges. LIPA denied the accusation and has asked the New York State Public Service Commission to investigate the issue. 
 But news of the KeySpan sale abruptly changed the subject. 
 The deal would end KeySpan's existence as a stand-alone company, created by the 1998 merger of Brooklyn Union Gas, which supplied gas to parts of New York City, and some parts of the old Long Island Lighting Company, though the KeySpan name would be retained. It is part of a national trend toward utility acquisitions, made easier by a recent change in federal law. The combined entity would be the third-largest energy-delivery company in the country.
 But Long Island, which was everything to Lilco and a central focus for KeySpan, would become just one service area for an ambitious, growing international company, forced to compete with National Grid's other areas for capital and attention. 
 National Grid, which owns and operates Britain's national gas and electricity distribution systems, would serve more than eight million customers in New York, Rhode Island, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Nassau and Suffolk Counties and the Rockaway peninsula in Queens -- the former Lilco territory served by KeySpan -- would account for somewhat more than a million of them. 
 Holders of KeySpan stock, who are numerous on the Island, stand to get $42 in cash for each of their shares, which had been trading in the $36 range recently, before the sale was announced. That will be a bonanza for company officials who have large holdings, including Mr. Catell, who owns more than two million shares.
 Instead of retiring, Mr. Catell, 69, is expected to stay on as executive chairman of the American subsidiary, National Grid USA, and deputy chairman of the parent company, National Grid. He is likely to be deeply involved in the details of joining the two companies and in trying to persuade Mr. Kessel to support the deal. 
 Mr. Kessel and the power authority are crucial to the deal's success, because LIPA is effectively KeySpan's biggest customer by far. The power authority buys the electricity produced by KeySpan's Long Island power plants wholesale and pays KeySpan to manage and maintain the islandwide network of wires and poles and transformers that deliver the power to homes and businesses. 
 The contracts, which were renegotiated and extended in December to run at least until 2013, give LIPA the right to terminate them if KeySpan is sold.
 Mr. Kessel said the power authority had been aware for some time that KeySpan could be an acquisition target, but had not expected a deal quite so soon after the contracts were extended. 
 In the December agreement, KeySpan accepted a $34 million cut in its management fees and agreed to pay the authority a total of $120 million to settle various disagreements. The deal also gave LIPA a year to decide whether to buy KeySpan's power plants in Island Park and Far Rockaway for their book value, $75 million, and overhaul them to increase capacity and reduce emissions, a process known as repowering. 
 Mr. Catell said at a news conference on Monday in Brooklyn that he did not expect the acquisition to lead to another renegotiation of the LIPA-KeySpan agreement. Jackie Barry, a spokeswoman for National Grid in Westborough, Mass., said it also expected the agreement to stand. 
 But Mr. Kessel expressed a different view. He said the authority would review the December agreement again and also take a detailed look at the buyer. 
 ''When we entered into this agreement with KeySpan, National Grid was not part of the picture,'' he said. ''They are now, so we have to take a look at every single option. Everything is out there on the table, and we need to review it all.''
 ''I'm not sure if we could stop it,'' Mr. Kessel said of the acquisition, ''but that doesn't mean we have to be a part of it.''
 Mr. Kessel said he has written to Eliot Spitzer, the state attorney general, and to Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, saying the authority would need time to assess the changed circumstances. Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Hevesi are reviewing the December LIPA-KeySpan pact.
 Matthew C. Cordaro, the director of the Center for Management Analysis at the Long Island University C. W. Post campus and a former vice president of Lilco, said opposition from LIPA could be a major obstacle for National Grid. ''It would depend on how serious National Grid is about the Long Island electric operation,'' he said. ''And that's hard to assess.''
 ''There is still a long way to go before the ink is dry on this,'' Mr. Cordaro said. ''I don't see it happening without some understanding with LIPA that the new player is going to be acceptable.''
 Mr. Jesanis dismissed talk that the company would quickly sell KeySpan's generating plants, including the large power stations in Port Jefferson, Northport and Glenwood Landing and the Ravenswood plant in Queens. 
 ''They are good assets and at this point we are going to be happy to own them and have the talented people at KeySpan operate them,'' he said.
 But Mr. Cordaro said that National Grid might rethink its plans for the plants if the power authority proved troublesome. 
 National Grid and KeySpan said that job cuts among KeySpan's more than 4,000 Long Island employees as a result of the merger would be held to a minimum, and would be accomplished primarily through retirements and attrition.
 Still, Mr. Cordaro said that any deal of this kind could threaten jobs. ''The downside is that when someone makes an acquisition like this, they try to recover the costs,'' he said. ''And usually, to do that, they have to makesome improvements in efficiency, and what that translates to in many cases is a reduction in the work force.'' 
 KeysSpan's unions were keeping their powder dry. ''We've been down this path before, and we're not novices,'' said Ralph Ranghelli, the business manager of Local 1049 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, which represents about 2,000 KeySpan employees, many of whom once worked for Lilco. 
 ''In the short term, we think that this deal won't change our day-to-day operations,'' Mr. Ranghelli said. ''Long term, we need to get to know the folks at Grid and hopefully understand their plans.'' 
 Business leaders were circumspect. ''I think it remains to be seen what effect it would have on Long Island,'' said Matthew T. Crosson, the president of the Long Island Association. ''National Grid is a well-respected company.''
 The deal must be approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the New York State Public Service Commission. 
 In Albany, Paul Tonka, a Democratic state assemblyman and the chairman of the Assembly's energy committee, has questioned whether a larger utility would mean better service, and said his committee would hold hearings on the deal. Mr. Tonka's district is in Schenectady, which is served by Niagara-Mohawk, a gas and electric utility covering much of upstate New York. National Grid bought the utility in 2003.
 Mr. Tonka's counterpart in the State Senate, James W. Wright, a Republican from Watertown, said National Grid's takeover of Niagara-Mohawk had had ''the kind of positive impact I think we will see as this merger moves along.'' His district, too, is served by the company. 
 Mr. Wright said that he expected National Grid to realize economies of scale that would help keep energy bills down. ''As the company itself grows stronger, that is certainly beneficial to all components of the company,'' he said. 
 Advocates of repowering and alternative energy said they would judge the deal on environmental grounds. ''Generally, National Grid is seen as a well-managed company,'' said Gordian Raacke, the executive director of Renewable Energy Long Island, in Bridgehampton. ''An important question that any prospective new owner must answer for Long Island is whether they intend to clean up and repower Long Island's aging power plants.'' 
 Ms. Barry, the National Grid spokeswoman, said the company had taken no position yet on repowering. ''The ink is barely dry on our acquisition announcement,'' she said.
 Mark Serotoff of Commack, coordinator of the Sustainable Energy Alliance of Long Island, said he saw cause for hope: ''I'm optimistic that these dinosaur, antique clunker power plants will get rebuilt and updated with fresh blood and fresh air from across the Atlantic.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An important issue facing the new owner of KeySpan is whether to renovate or sell its generating stations, like the four-stack Northport plant. (Photo by Phil Marino)(pg. 5)
 (Photo by Paul Willoughby)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); UTILITY RATES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TRENDS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (96%); NATIONAL GRID USA (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (56%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (96%); NG (LSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (96%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (96%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (96%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (96%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: ROBERT B CATELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



77 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: Overachievers Under the Gun; 
TRENTON

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

 BODY:
TOM SHEA, a longtime adviser and current chief of staff to Gov. Jon S. Corzine, was in the middle of describing his boss's management philosophy when in walked the boss himself.
 ''I believe in working, actually,'' Mr. Corzine, in open collar and trademark sweater, cheerily explained for the benefit of a reporter last week in Mr. Shea's sunny corner office in the State House. ''I have the crazy idea that it might actually end up with results.''
The governor had a quick word with Mr. Shea about a staffing matter and, as if proving a point, quickly slipped away. 
 It was a telling snapshot of Mr. Corzine so far as governor: working assiduously, but privately, to assemble a team of hyper-qualified appointees from the public and private ranks for positions on his staff, in his cabinet and on several influential state boards and panels. 
 But while the credentials of the new team appear to be beyond doubt -- the appointees have drawn bipartisan praise for their qualifications and perceived independence from traditional party power brokers -- so is the magnitude of the problems they will face almost immediately: structural deficits, runaway pension costs and a burdensome property tax system, among other challenges.
 And with a management style that is advertised as more Wall Street than State Street, the enterprise has taken on the air of one monumental trial marriage of corporate America with state government.
 ''It is, in a sense, a grand experiment,'' said Joseph Marbach, chairman of the political science department at Seton Hall University. ''These are largely folks who are being put into different roles than they've filled before, so it's not something that's necessarily been tried in the state before. Corzine is hoping for more efficient government from them. But we don't know how successful it will actually be, considering that they're now managing large state bureaucracies that have been in place for years and have a certain way of doing things.'' 
 The new team seemed to pass one initial test by cobbling together a temporary solution to the state's nearly bankrupt Transportation Trust Fund, the fund for road and bridge maintenance. Mr. Shea described a process that involved a seemingly endless round of meetings among the governor, the state treasurer and the transportation commissioner, audiences with ''good government transportation groups'' and union representatives and frequent consultations with legislative leaders. 
 The result -- refinancing $1.8 billion of the fund's debt, a move that would add billions of dollars to the state debt over the next 30 years -- nonetheless seems to be palatable to most legislators and, for now, the public.
 Beyond that initial foray, however, most State House observers still wonder what the Corzine model of governance will look like in action and how such an assemblage of people with such varied backgrounds will function as a team. 
 Peter McDonough, a political strategist who was communications director for former Gov. Christie Whitman, called some of the appointments brilliant, but said that it was too soon to see how well they would work as a group.
 ''It depends on how strong , how willing they are to submerge their whole egos,'' Mr. McDonough said. ''Everything is going to depend on how well the governor and his key advisers can keep the cabinet members on the same page and how well they understand what it is that the governor is trying to accomplish and where they fit into that.''
 At the very least, the resumes of a number of Mr. Corzine's appointees -- even those with experience in government -- make them unlikely candidates for the role of subservient bureaucrats.
 Mr. Corzine's choice for state treasurer, Bradley I. Abelow, is a former managing director at Goldman Sachs, one of the leading investment firms, and he put another Wall Street colleague, Barry L. Zubrow, in charge of the embattled Schools Construction Corporation. 
 The governor's chief counsel, Stuart Rabner, was until recently a crime-busting prosecutor in the United States attorney's office, where he arrived by way of Princeton University, where he graduated summa cum laude, and Harvard Law School, where was cum laude. 
 One of his choices for a state ethics oversight panel, John J. Farmer Jr., was an attorney general under two Republican governors and for a time was Ms. Whitman's chief of staff. 
 And his choice to chair the board of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey is Robert Del Tufo, who was a United States attorney and a state attorney general.
 ''I don't know that this is experimental if you look at the world he comes from,'' Mr. Shea said. ''He's used to having really talented people around him, and strong personalities.'' 
 To the extent that he has assembled a cast from various walks of life, Mr. Corzine has felt justified in drawing comparisons between his approach and another extraordinarily wealthy businessman who made a successful transition into politics: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York. 
 It is a comparison his aides seem happy to encourage. 
 Like the mayor, Mr. Corzine has recruited a heavyweight mix of talent from the public and private sector, and expects them, like Mr. Bloomberg's charges, to work closely and smoothly across traditional departmental boundaries. 
 With the governor's daily senior staff meetings, regular departmental meetings and even the convening last week of a sort of staff retreat at the governor's mansion in Princeton as evidence, Mr. Shea suggested that Mr. Corzine was recreating the same atmosphere of cooperation that Mr. Bloomberg has claimed credit for fostering in City Hall.
 ''We don't have a bullpen,'' said Mr. Shea, referring to the wide-open workspace Mr. Bloomberg set up in City Hall as a means of compelling close cooperation, ''but it's pretty close.''
 Still, the analogy only goes so far. While both men have surrounded themselves with forceful managers and policy specialists, Mr. Corzine seems unlikely to grant them the sort of freedom to operate independently that Mr. Bloomberg has become known for in New York. 
 Rather, Mr. Corzine has set up a model that essentially proscribes entrepreneurial action by subordinates: A series of policy advisers will report directly to him on goings-on in each department, and he himself will keep close tabs on their actions through the frequent meetings
 ''I know Bloomberg is an extreme delegator,'' said Anthony Shorris, who is the director of a policy institute at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School and a former deputy schools chancellor in the Bloomberg administration. ''But it's not clear you can run a state that way, and its not clear a state in the financial stress New Jersey is in could be run that way. These times require very difficult decisions and close coordination, so I'm not sure you'd want a commissioner-driven form of government.'' 
 The biggest similarity between the men, Mr. Shorris said, was a certain distaste for the more public aspects of being a politician. ''I think what they have in common is that neither of them is into the public adulation,'' he said. ''They got into government to solve problems. I'll kiss the babies and go to the barbeques when I have to, but the most important thing is, 'Fix it.' '' 
 Mr. Shea, who once served as a special assistant to President Bill Clinton, also suggested that the best comparison for the Corzine appointees was with the ''amazing people'' with whom the former president surrounded himself while he was governor of Arkansas. 
 ''I think if you have somebody who has a compelling vision and some demonstrated leadership qualities, I think people will want to be involved in something that person in heading,'' he said. ''I think that's human nature.'' 
 The tests for the new team will not be long in coming. Mr. Corzine has already asked for across-the-board cuts to be identified by department heads in advance of his presentation of the budget to the Legislature on March 21, by which time he and his team will already have had to come up with several potentially painful suggestions for closing a multibillion-dollar budget gap.
 Former Gov. Jim Florio, who also came into office amid bad economic circumstances and was rewarded by being voted out after four years, was invited to address the staff gathering last weekend at Drumthwacket, where he said he found the attitude encouraging. 
 ''At this retreat at Drumthwacket at the governor's mansion, the body language seemed fairly good,'' Mr. Florio said. ''They all do have this sense that there's something different that's called for.''
 Not that different is necessarily better. As a point of interest, Mr. Florio recalled that when he formed his own administration, he mostly appointed people he had worked with or knew. The two appointees who came in as a result of a widely advertised national search process -- ''without mentioning any names,'' he insisted -- turned out to be flops.
 In the case of Mr. Corzine's recruits from the private sector, Mr. Florio seemed confident that they would prove to be good picks -- precisely because the governor was already familiar with them. 
 ''Some of these people who are not traditionally government-oriented people, are people that have worked with the governor,'' he said. ''He has a compatibility of style from the past, and presumably respects their talent and intellect.'' 
 There may be other benefits to bringing in so many new faces. In Trenton, Mr. Corzine's new appointees are at least initially being allowed a wide berth, as was the case with Mr. Abelow at his confirmation hearing this month before a highly deferential State Senate Judiciary Committee. (''This is a short course in politics,'' Senator Bill Gormley, a Republican from Mays Landing, said sarcastically before asking for Mr. Abelow's analysis of the state's financial condition. ''You're now responsible for what I did wrong.'')
 And for a time, at least, Mr. Corzine may be able to expect to benefit politically because of a perception of competence among his appointees, even as he introduces austerity measures. 
 ''Simply picking people who are new and outsiders, not the usual suspects, does pique the attentive public's interest, and it also reduces his exposure,'' said Peter Woolley of the Fairleigh Dickinson Public Mind Poll. ''People are looking for something new, and this might get him some breathing room.'' 
 Then again, the beginning is always the easy part, as Mr. McDonough noted.
 ''I don't think this can just be about bringing in some new corporate style,'' he said. ''I mean, Jon Corzine's got a beard and he wears fuzzy sweaters. I don't know what the corporate style is. What I do know is that leading a government is a very personal thing, and the corporate style is not going to be nearly as important as the personal style.
 ''There may be a corporate, bottom-line approach to how you put a budget together, but this is also going to come down to how well you bring the diverse parts of one agency together with another agency, and one department together with another department.''
 But, Mr. McDonough said: ''Everyone's a true believer in the beginning. Everything is possible right now.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The governor's choices for key assignments: Robert Del Tufo, top left
John Farmer, right
and Bradley I. Abelow, below left. Stuart Rabner is the governor's chief counsel. (Photos by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



78 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Hoboken's Hospital Could Close Soon

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

DATELINE: HOBOKEN 

 BODY:
THE faithful, dressed in business suits or surgical scrubs, gathered here last month to pray for a miracle.
 At Our Lady of Grace, an old stone church next to St. Mary Hospital, about 400 nurses, doctors, aides, technicians, community leaders and residents bowed their heads and asked for a way out of fiscal distress, economic pressure and the looming specter of lost jobs and closed doors.
It was the prelude to an attempt to petition a different higher power, Gov. Jon S. Corzine, to save the 143-year-old St. Mary -- the state's oldest continuously operating hospital and the only one in the growing city of Hoboken -- from closing. Employees, administrators and local officials have appealed to Governor Corzine, who lives here when he is not staying at the governor's mansion in Princeton, asking him to save the hospital, which was founded by nuns, by allowing it to become part of the state-run University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. 
 Anthony Coley, a spokesman for Mr. Corzine, would only say that ''we are consulting with stakeholders and reviewing different options.'' 
 Late last year, Bon Secours Health Care System, a Maryland-based company that owns the 328-bed Catholic hospital, filed a certificate of need with the State Department of Health and Senior Services seeking to close it, citing the rising cost of providing health care and the shrinking profit margin. 
 While that request is pending, the Coalition to Keep St. Mary Hospital Open and Caring, an ad hoc support group, has devised a business plan that relies on nearly $57.4 million in low-interest loans it hopes to get from the Hudson County Improvement Authority.
 Should Mr. Corzine approve the long-shot plan to allow St. Mary to become part of the University of Medicine and Dentistry, the money will be used to build a new emergency room, expand the hospital's surgical suites and install state-of the art computer systems.
 ''It would ensure that we just wouldn't save St. Mary but that we would be able to make it a better hospital for the community and to build on its strengths,'' said Dr. Thomas Azzolini, the hospital's director of podiatric residency training, who is a member of the coalition. 
 Struggles like those experienced by St. Mary are becoming more and more common, especially among small community hospitals with a history of serving the poor. With the rising cost of health care -- stoked by higher salaries, malpractice insurance premiums and the price of ever-more-sophisticated equipment -- many hospitals, particularly in the Northeast, are struggling financially. 
 In the last six years, 10 hospitals in New Jersey have closed, and others are close to doing so.
 ''It's always difficult when a community loses a local hospital, and the Department of Health and Senior Services works hard to ensure that, when it is necessary, the process has the least impact on affected neighborhoods,'' said Nathan Rudy, a department spokesman. 
 The hospital coalition and most of St. Mary's 1,200 employees are not willing to give up without a fight. 
 ''Academically and clinically, UMDNJ will bring a lot of great things to St. Mary,'' said Joan Quigley, who is a vice president of St. Mary as well a member of the State Assembly. ''And we will be able to bring new practices and expertise into their system. It will be a win-win.'' 
 The state's medical university has its own problems, however, as it battles back from financial scandals and a federal investigation and undergoes an examination of its records by a federal monitor who was installed to avoid criminal charges against the institution. And with the state fighting to close a multibillion-dollar budget gap, little additional assistance is available. 
 ''We are always interested in helping the community, but any assistance would have to be within reasonable financial parameters,'' said Ana Farneski, a spokeswoman for UMDNJ. Officials of the Jersey City Medical Center, just two and a half miles away, said their newly constructed hospital on Grand Street would be able to accommodate patients displaced by St. Mary. 
 Bill Dauster, a spokesman for the medical center, which is owned by Liberty Health, said: ''In the unlikely event that St. Mary Hospital closes, we'd be available, if asked, to ensure there is uninterrupted access to health care for the people of Hoboken.'' 
 But supporters of St. Mary say the hospital serves a special need because of its location. With Hoboken bounded by the Palisades to the west and constricted by the gridlocked flow of traffic at the Holland Tunnel to the south, they say, patients who need immediate attention are at greater risk if they have to go as far as the Jersey City Medical Center.
 ''Seconds matter, and if you have a heart attack on the avenue in Hoboken and have to go to Jersey City for treatment, you would likely be denied the immediate attention needed to save your life,'' said Marie Duffy, the hospital's executive director of nursing. 
 There is also the fate of special programs like St. Mary's Children's Crisis Intervention Service unit, the only one in the county, which treats 600 patients a year in a specially equipped ward for adolescents with crises.
 ''The children will be forced to go out of the county to other facilities,'' said Dr. Laura Cricco-Budinick, the director of the unit. ''The whole system is strained as it is, and closing us down will cause real problems for children in need.''
 In addition, Mayor Dave Roberts said he was concerned that the city's large Hispanic population would be reluctant to travel to unfamiliar surrounding hospitals, because it has relied on St. Mary for generations.
 ''The residents of this city need an acute-care hospital,'' said Mr. Roberts, who added that time was running out.
 For now, the State Department of Health and Senior Services is reviewing Bon Secours's request to close the hospital. It could deny the request, or pass it on to the State Health Planning Board, which would have 90 days to make a recommendation to the health commissioner, Dr. Fred Jacobs. Dr. Jacobs would then have 120 days to approve or deny the board's recommendation. 
 ''Frankly, we are concerned,'' said the Hudson County executive, Thomas A. DeGise. ''UMDNJ has so many other things going on that the talk of acquiring St. Mary might have to wait. If it does wait, St. Mary could die.'' 
 Employees and other supporters of keeping the hospital open said their one hope is their neighbor -- Governor Corzine. 
 Imagine this, the Rev. Alex Santora told his congregation at Our Lady of Grace Roman Catholic Church last month: The governor is in his penthouse apartment working on a speech, when he suddenly becomes ill. He summons his security detail and asks to be taken to a hospital. The state trooper looks toward the Hudson River and sees that the tunnels to New York are jammed with traffic. 
 ''Now, imagine that the governor says, 'Take me to St. Mary's,' '' Father Santora said, as members of his congregation applauded.


GRAPHIC: Photo: About 400 people prayed last month at Our Lady of Grace for the future of St. Mary Hospital, shown in the background. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); DENTISTRY (72%); PETITIONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (52%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (69%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



79 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-12

Bush Blunt With Pakistan
President Bush made clear that Pakistan should not expect a civilian nuclear agreement like the one with India any time soon, and he bluntly said that the two rivals on the subcontinent could not be compared to each other. 1

Flaws in Iran's Nuclear Work 

Interviews with many of the world's leading nuclear analysts and a review of technical assessments show that Iran continues to wrestle with serious technological problems that have slowed its nuclear ambitions for more than two decades. 1

U.S. Presses Top Iraqis
The top American military commander in the Middle East met in Baghdad with senior Iraqi politicians and appeared to press American demands for a quick resolution of the dispute over the post of prime minister in the new government. 8

Addressing China's Income Gap
China's new ''historic task'' is to narrow the gap between rich and poor and enliven the economy of the country's vast but still impoverished rural areas, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in a national address. 11

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Bird-Flu Rattles Pet Owners
After a stray cat died of bird flu on a German island in the Baltic Sea, the authorities set new rules for house pets throughout areas where infected wild birds had been found. 3

NATIONAL 18-29

New Inquiry on Soldier's Death
The Defense Department has directed the Army to open a criminal inquiry into the shooting death of Cpl. Pat Tillman, the former NFL player who was killed by fellow Rangers in Afghanistan, officials said. 1

Tough Race in Pennsylvania
No other political race this year has so focused the Democratic Party's energy as the re-election bid of Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania. And no other race so captures the Republican Party's vulnerabilities. 1

9/11 Families to View Trial
More than 500 family members of 9/11 victims have signed up to watch on closed-circuit television the sentencing trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, the first trial in the United States of someone charged in the attacks. 18

OBITUARIES 38

EDUCATION

Schools Stop Ranking Students
Many high schools have stopped providing class rankings, once a major component of college admissions decisions, concluding it could harm the chances of their very good, but not best, students. 29

NEW YORK/REGION 33-37

An Imam in America
Islam is one of the nation's fastest growing religions, forcing imams in America to unify diverse congregations, grapple with the threat of terrorism and sometimes set aside conservative beliefs that prevail in the Middle East. 1

Chess 37
Weather 39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); RELIGION (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ARMIES (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); ATHLETES (72%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (71%); PETS (71%); CATS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); BIRDS (66%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); TERRORISM (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); WILDLIFE (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); SENTENCING (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); WEN JIABAO (53%); RICK SANTORUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (76%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (69%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



80 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: The Mollusk That Made Manhattan

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Royte. 
Elizabeth Royte, whose most recent book is ''Garbage Land: On the Secret Trail of Trash,'' is a frequent contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:
THE BIG OYSTER
 History on the 
 Half Shell.
 By Mark 
 Kurlansky.
 Illustrated. 307 pp. Ballantine Books. $23.95.
New Yorkers, it seems, are endlessly fascinated by their city. They can't stop writing books about the place, and so must come up with ever more different angles. Mark Kurlansky, who has formerly looked beyond Gotham to write about cod and salt, in ''Cod'' and ''Salt,'' now turns his attention to his own backyard. His New York history, ''The Big Oyster,'' takes us from the vague and misty era of the Lenape Indians, through the oyster boom of the late 19th century, to the noxious specifics that closed the city's last oyster beds in 1927. 
 The story is simple enough: New York became a great city because it sits at the confluence of several great rivers that form a deep and protected harbor. The rivers gave access to natural resources, and the port let merchants ship this stuff out. The estuary of the lower Hudson, which had 350 square miles of oyster beds, was a textbook place for Crassostrea virginica, which thrive in intertidal and subtidal areas rinsed with nutrient-rich river water. The Lenape ate oysters, the Dutch ate oysters, the English ate oysters too. But by the late 18th century, everyone knew this dietary staple wouldn't last forever, that ''Eden had its limits.'' First the city restricted who could harvest oysters, and then when. As technology made it easier to take a lot of oysters quickly, the city moved to limit the use of dredges and steam power as well.
 Meanwhile, the population of New York climbed, and the constant discharge of garbage and sewage began to take a different sort of toll on the harbor floor. There were plenty of complaints, especially when cholera and typhoid broke out, but little action. Instead, oystermen perfected the art of transplanting and then cultivating oyster seed in clean places like the Great South Bay. ''Such newfound powers were making humankind giddy with science's magical ability to withstand its own foolish excess,'' Kurlansky writes, almost giddy himself. 
 The advent of cultivation had tremendous commercial implications. Workers shucked and pickled as fast as they could, shipping barrels of oysters far and wide. Kurlansky's locomotive prose makes it easy to visualize oyster trails pulsing across a world map: north up the Hudson, west to the Pacific, east across the Atlantic. It was the golden age of New York oysterdom: the city was ''overtaken by oystermania.'' In 1860, some 12 million oysters were sold in New York markets; by 1880, the area's oyster beds were producing 700 million a year. New Yorkers rich and poor were slurping the creatures in oyster cellars, saloons, stands, houses, cafes and restaurants, about which we hear a great deal (this in addition to digressions on property rights, steam engines, prostitution, sanitation, slum clearance, the Civil War draft riots and folding beds). Oysters were cheap; they were eaten pickled, stewed, baked, roasted, fried and scalloped; in soups, patties and puddings; for breakfast, lunch and dinner. If a customer on ''the Canal Street plan'' (all you can eat for 6 cents) consumed too many, the management would give him an oyster with its shell loosely open ''in the hopes that after a few minutes, the avaricious client would be eating nothing for several days.''
 ''The Big Oyster'' proves that it is possible for a skilled researcher to tell the history of New York -- its wealth, excitement, greed, destructiveness and filth -- through the history of a single creature. But it's a fallacy to think that the story of oysters is the story of New York. ''Before the 20th century, when people thought of New York, they thought of oysters,'' Kurlansky writes. That's a fair enough, if surprising, assertion, but it's his job to prove it. At times, you can hear the microfilm wheels screeching as Kurlansky, wearing oyster-colored glasses, scours diaries, menus, letters, newspapers and magazines in search of evidence. Sure, this is a book about oysters, but many of the references to oyster-love seem like padding or name-dropping. We learn that Samuel Pepys ''mentions oysters 50 times in his diaries'' (but we get no more on that topic); we learn the names of, but little more about, various businessmen, actors, politicians and prostitutes who consumed oysters in the city; and we learn that the British prime minister, in 1715, ran up big bills shipping New York oysters to himself. ''Uncle!'' one cries, wondering if Kurlansky was paid in oysters per word.
 For the most part, Kurlansky is a genial and enthusiastic guide. He's often quite funny, making jokes at New Yorkers' expense: we're brash, we're obsessed with money, we eat our food live. He does a decent job on the oyster's peculiar natural history, which allows it to be transplanted, and also to be transported alive. It turns out that most of the oysters we eat in eastern North America, from the Gulf of Mexico to Novia Scotia and north, are biologically identical. If their taste, size, shape and color differ, it's only because of the water they finished growing up in. Oysters, in short, have their own sort of terroir. 
 But while Kurlansky's city bustles, reeks and gleams, the oyster itself -- despite the ecological walk-through -- never really comes to life, at least not in the way that William W. Warner's Atlantic blue crabs do in the classic ''Beautiful Swimmers: Watermen, Crabs and the Chesapeake Bay.'' The book has too many sentences with a deadening feel: ''Shark fishing was a popular sport.'' Or, ''The Prince de Joinville was another Delmonico regular.'' ''The Big Oyster'' is often claustrophobic with numbers -- prices, tonnages, export rates, market taxes -- and sodden with recipes (dozens of them, mostly variations on flour, butter and Crassostrea). Redundancies clog the narrative, and Kurlansky is often vague. He notes the link between sex and oysters -- the city's oyster houses sported red balloons, just as bordellos were marked by red lights -- but he doesn't address the belief that oysters are aphrodisiacal except to note that they are high in zinc, which promotes testosterone. There are other lapses: he tells us Crepidula fornicata doomed British oysters, but not what Crepidula fornicata is (a slipper limpet). Weirdly, he reports temperatures in Fahrenheit and centigrade and neglects to translate shillings and pounds into money today's American reader can understand.
 Such quibbles won't bother the die-hard Kurlansky fan, and they certainly didn't keep me from appreciating that Kurlansky's real subject, the one that raises this book above the story of seafood, is the history of the trashing of New York. It's a cautionary tale that, though often repeated, we seem helpless to learn from. We pay attention to our natural resources only when we start to feel sick -- either in the gut or in the wallet. By the middle of the 19th century, ''the rivers that filled the harbor with fresh water, making oyster beds grow, were now filling the harbor with deadly chemicals.'' In 1927, the city's last oyster beds closed, and purveyors switched to cleaner sources. But the fouling of the waters only intensified -- with discharges of pesticides, heavy metals, asbestos, solvents, oil and PCB's -- until enactment of the Clean Water Act in 1972. Today, the Hudson estuary is too polluted to support oysters one could safely eat. That's bad enough, but for Kurlansky -- and all New Yorkers -- there'ssomething even worse: the city that once drew its economic and social lifeblood from its waterfront has ''lost its direct connection to its own vast and once sweet-smelling sea.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The oyster is their world: a spread at the Grand Central Oyster Bar. (Photograph by Envision/Corbis)Drawing (Drawing by Ed Lam)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); RIVERS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); SHELLFISH FISHING (78%); LITERATURE (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Elizabeth Royte; Mark Kurlansky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



81 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: American World Order

BYLINE: By MARTIN WALKER. 
Martin Walker is the editor of United Press International and a senior fellow of the World Policy Institute at the New School.

 BODY:
THE CASE FOR GOLIATH
 How America Acts as the World's
 Government in the Twenty-First Century.
 By Michael Mandelbaum.
 283 pp. PublicAffairs. $26.
MICHAEL MANDELBAUM has taken all the fun out of an ostensibly flippant but fundamentally serious diplomatic parlor game. Usually played late at night when the Americans have gone home to prepare for their puritanically early start to the day, the Europeans, Latin Americans and Asians take a second glass of Cognac and imagine how awful the world could be if someone else were to take the place of the United States as the global hegemon. 
 Eastern Europeans tell sad anecdotes about living under Russian dominance. Western Europeans shudder at the thought of Germans running the benign and virtual empire that the United States has maintained and expanded for the past 60 years. (And they murmur that within the European Union the French are already being difficult enough.) The Latin Americans have their hands full with the arrogance of next-door neighbors like Brazil without wanting to see it become even more dominant. The idea of a Chinese hegemony sends shivers down the backs of all, particularly the Japanese and Indians; somebody usually mentions the mournful example of Tibet. The Pakistanis, Sri Lankans and Bangladeshis react equally unhappily to the idea of India as superpower. As the diplomats prattle on, meanwhile, the British smile wryly and say they have been there, done that and are extremely glad to have lost the T-shirt.
 Mandelbaum, the Christian A. Herter professor of American foreign policy at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, pulls aside the curtain of diplomatic civility to expose the crude and obvious reality that everyone prefers to ignore, at least in public. He explains coolly and clearly the various ways in which the United States now functions as a global government, offering the planet the services of physical security, commercial regulation, financial stability and legal recourse that are normally provided by national governments to their citizens. Non-Americans naturally do not like to admit this, even as they enjoy the results, and American leaders do not like to spell it out, least of all to the voters who pay for it. But the evidence is clear. The network of military alliances (like NATO) and trade pacts (like the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) and international organizations (like the United Nations and World Bank and Group of 8) that the United States was mainly responsible for bringing to life has become an American-led global management system. It is familiar, inclusive and fairly unobtrusive. Its institutions provide a reasonable role for lesser powers, which is why the NATO alliance of consent survived and expanded while the wretched conscripts of the Warsaw Pact rebelled.
 Above all, this system has been a remarkable and seductive economic success. Having built the tripartite trading structure of the modern world (North America, Western Europe and Japan) to enrich its citizens and allies and sustain the cold war, the generous Americans have expanded it to include the Asian tigers and Eastern Europeans. Now 1.3 billion Chinese and 1.1 billion Indians are clambering up the food chain to prosperity. They deal in dollars, raise money in the New York and London financial markets, generate big trade surpluses with the United States and then send their brighter and most ambitious children to American graduate and business schools, where they are exposed to the creeping osmosis of the Western value system. This is a magnificently benign loop, and will continue to be so once those American-trained graduates figure out how the biosphere is going to handle tens of millions of Asians living the American lifestyle, with their own cars and air conditioning and fast food.
 This international system, an improved and democratized version of the clunky British model that brought us the 19th-century wave of globalization, is designed to operate to American comfort and profit, while securing compliance by sharing security and prosperity with others. But it is no longer doing so quite as reliably as it once did. Trade imbalances and the Bush administration's fiscal policies are putting it in jeopardy. Mandelbaum says the American pattern of energy consumption is ''the worst 21st-century international offense of the United States.'' He adds that ''the greatest threat to the American role as the world's government comes not from the discontent it generates in other countries, or from the assaults of terrorists, but from the huge bill for social spending that the American public will have to pay in the 21st century, a responsibility that has the potential to transform American politics in other ways unfavorable to the continuation of that role.''
 Moreover, traditional beneficiaries of the American system increasingly complain that the United States is no longer running it well. The first sign of the British system's global utility was its suppression of piracy in the 18th century and of the slave trade in the 19th. Even with the world's largest and most technologically advanced navy, the United States is no longer effectively policing the world's seas. Piracy is rife in the Red Sea, the Indian Ocean and around the Strait of Malacca, and America's stewardship is failing in important areas like climate change and drug trafficking. The global governor has some fairly basic global responsibilities, which include enforcing the rules that everyone has to obey, Americans included. That is why the rest of the world is angry at the Bush administration's rejection of the International Criminal Court, and its use of the aid weapon to punish small countries that refuse to grant Americans a waiver from the court's provisions. 
 Mandelbaum does not dwell overlong on the grisly intervention in Iraq, but he is confident that while the world grumbles, it will tolerate Goliath's occasional misadventures, so long as it retains a broader respect for the United States as the indispensable stabilizing power. America survived the ignominy of the 1960's, when Vietnam and Selma and Watts combined to discredit its international image and it became fashionable to talk of a moral equivalence between the United States and the Soviet Union. The country is undergoing a similar travail today, made the more offensive and glaring in foreign eyes by the Bush administration's clumsy abuse of power. The White House has crudely dispensed with the founding fathers' ''decent respect for the opinions of mankind'' to tell the inhabitants of the rest of the world that they are either with Washington or against it.
 Nonetheless, as Mandelbaum argues, there is no credible alternative to the American role as linchpin and guarantor of the global system. Nobody else has the political will, the military and economic clout and the ability to generate sufficient international consent. Rising regional powers like China, Brazil and the European Union may be jostling to win some more room to maneuver, and the global crowd may be grousing more fiercely about the performance of the American Goliath, but as Mandelbaum shows, the most serious threats are being generated at home. This is what worries the players of the late-night parlor games, because however long the American-led system may last, they would most fervently agree with Mandelbaum's three closing predictions: ''They will not pay for it; they will continue to criticize it; and they will miss it when it is gone.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%); COMMERCIAL LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); LITERATURE (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: Martin Walker; Michael Mandelbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TIBET (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



82 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: The Man With the Silver Tongue

BYLINE: By RICHARD LINGEMAN. 
Richard Lingeman, a senior editor at The Nation, is the author of biographies of Theodore Dreiser and Sinclair Lewis and the forthcoming ''Double Lives: American Writers' Friendships.''

 BODY:
A GODLY HERO
 The Life of William Jennings Bryan. 
 By Michael Kazin. 
 Illustrated. 374 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.
William Jennings Bryan is mainly remembered as the fanatical old fool Fredric March played in ''Inherit the Wind.'' Michael Kazin's valuable biography of the Great Commoner, ''A Godly Hero,'' aims to dust him off and resurrect him as a political model for small-p progressives in the new century. Kazin, a professor of history at Georgetown University and the author of ''The Populist Persuasion,'' presents a compelling case that Bryan, at his zenith, was not only a powerful and effective leader of a political-moral crusade but also a pioneering advocate of progressive ideas still with us today. 
 In 1896 Bryan made perhaps the most dramatic political debut in American history at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, where as an obscure two-term Nebraska congressman he roused oratory-stuffed delegates with a blazing speech, in support of the ''free silver'' movement, that won him the presidential nomination. When he closed with his famous peroration, ''You shall not press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns, you shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold,'' the crowd froze in silence and then, as described by The New York World, ''the floor of the convention seemed to heave up. Everybody seemed to go mad at once.'' Men were shouting and weeping and embracing. 
 His speech, ringing with Populist rhetoric and apocalyptic religious imagery, was the kickoff of his drive to transform the Democratic Party into a vehicle for the common folk. His subsequent campaign against the safe and sound-money William McKinley sent temblors of fear through Eastern financial circles. Wall Street Republicans, under the generalship of Mark Hanna, smeared him as a dangerous radical. Although Bryan lost, he articulated a prophetic vision of activist government working for the plain people; an amazing 79.3 percent of eligible voters were drawn to the polls.
 The campaign of '96 was a turning point for the Democrats, Kazin says, and Bryan did as much as anyone ''to transform his party . . . into the citadel of liberalism we identify with Franklin D. Roosevelt and his ideological descendants.'' He would go on to make two more failed runs for president and played a major role in writing every party platform through 1912. 
 Both Woodrow Wilson's progressivism and Roosevelt's New Deal carried Bryan's political DNA. He championed direct election of senators, a graduated federal income tax, pure food and drug laws, federally insured bank deposits, a ban on corporate campaign contributions, regulation of the stock market, a corporate income tax, the right to organize and government ownership of the railroads. 
 Like any great democratic leader, Bryan was open to the political winds, but his conscience was anchored in the 19th-century evangelical and Social Gospel traditions. Rather than emphasizing individual salvation, Social Gospel Christians sought to apply the teachings of Christ to social and economic problems.
 Born in Salem, Ill., in 1860, Bryan caught some of his passion for moral reform from his religiously and politically active parents. His father was a Jacksonian Democrat, a successful lawyer and politician; his mother, an activist in the temperance cause and a ''New Woman'' of her day. Young Will pursued a legal career in Lincoln, Neb., until the chance came to enter politics and find a platform for his idealism and sonorous, musical voice. He was elected to Congress in an 1890 upset. 
 Allied with the reform wing of the Democratic Party, he sought to purge the Bourbons and empower the Populists. This did not mean challenging the party's solid-South racism, however, and Bryan always excluded blacks from his flock. In his career he sometimes surrendered to political expediency, toning down unpalatable ideas. But even as he tolerated the Ku Klux Klan, he never muted his pleas for the dispossessed.
 After losing in 1908 to William Howard Taft, protege of the invincibly popular Teddy Roosevelt, Bryan steered the party into Wilson's hands in 1912. His reward was appointment as secretary of state, a job in which his antiwar convictions made him (and Wilson) increasingly uncomfortable. In 1915 he resigned on the ground that Wilson had abandoned America's proclaimed neutrality, and he mounted a speaking campaign against American intervention -- a stance that made him unpopular. But in 1917, when Wilson took the nation into World War I, Bryan switched sides, supporting a conflict he had opposed for the right reasons. In addition to decimating a generation, the war ushered in profound social changes, leaving the onetime radical reformer beached on the shores of reaction. 
 His base had now shrunk to religious fundamentalists; he was written off as old hat by young people and urbanites, who resented his anti-intellectualism, small-town moralizing and support for Prohibition. Stripped of his political work, Bryan soldiered on for the Lord as a well-paid Chautauqua headliner and evangelist. 
 The Scopes ''monkey trial'' in 1925 was Bryan's Gethsemane. His opponent, the criminal defense lawyer Clarence Darrow, subjected him to a withering cross-examination that highlighted the absurdities of taking the Bible literally. Kazin points out, however, that Bryan was not really a fundamentalist, steeped in hellfire and brimstone. Nor was he a biblical scholar, which was why the well-primed Darrow made him look ridiculous. 
 And Kazin also contends that Bryan's opposition to evolution was in part aimed at social Darwinism, which contemporary proponents used to justify war, exploitation by the strong and eugenics. Still, like fundamentalists today, he believed that evolution was a false teaching that undermined the word of God, the source of all moral and scientific truth. 
 Kazin, a superb political historian, trains a powerful searchlight on Bryan's career and the social and political trends of the time. This approach leaves less room for exploration of inner conflicts. He depicts Bryan as someone who yearned for intellectual respect but was condemned to feeding his followers the simple truths of that old-time religion. 
 Bryan died of a stroke shortly after the Scopes trial ended. Will Rogers said in tribute: ''This country holds hundreds and thousands of people who feel that they haven't got a soul now who will conscientiously fight for them, the plain people. Bryan had no vice president.'' And he has had few successors. There have been great leaders, like Martin Luther King, who harnessed a political cause to a moral idea, Kazin says, but none who could revive the Social Gospel. The author criticizes current liberals who have sought to ''quarantine the sacred from the realm of politics'' and have lost the trust of the majority who ''yearn . . . for a society run by and for ordinary people who lead virtuous lives'' -- Bryan's people. 
 Yet many of these people have presumably found a home on the religious right, where they support a narrow pro-business program that omits the concern for economic justice that galvanized Bryan. How could Bryan's Christ-inspired populism thrive in today's multicultural society? Still, there is a religious left that shows signs of reviving. And the victories of living-wage campaigns, for example, demonstrate the enduring strength of a moral idea in politics, whether religiously derived or not. The younger Bryan, I think, would have championed the underpaid in that fight.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Woodrow Wilson and his cabinet, with William Jennings Bryan at front right, 1913. (Photograph by Nebraska State Historical Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); HISTORY (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INCOME TAX (60%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: Richard Lingeman; William Jennings (1860-1925) Bryan; Michael (Prof) Kazin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



83 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; Theorist; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 5609 words

HEADLINE: Home Economics

BYLINE: By Jon Gertner. 
Jon Gertner, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about living-wage campaigns.

 BODY:
Edward L. Glaeser grew up on the East Side of Manhattan, went to school in Princeton, N.J., and Chicago, lived for a time in Cambridge, Mass., and Palo Alto, Calif., and recently moved with his wife and young son to a house on six and a half acres in the affluent suburb of Weston, Mass. To Glaeser, this last move has been a big adjustment. For one thing, he is not a good driver, and the new commute has prompted him to leave his house by 6 a.m. so as not to get ensnared in the morning rush hour. For another, Glaeser and the suburbs are clearly an unholy marriage of sensibilities, especially since his new house is bordered by about 600 acres of conservation land. ''I wake up every day, thinking, My goodness, how many units of housing could you build here?' 
' he says. Glaeser is a creature of density. An economist at Harvard, he has spent almost his entire professional life walking around, and thinking about, cities -- seeking explanations why some metropolitan areas thrive and some suffer and what factors make some places pricey and some cheap. He is just 38. In the years since earning his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago, though, he has been prolific and provocative in a way that has left many of his colleagues awestruck. ''I think he's a genius,'' says George Akerlof, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who was awarded a Nobel Prize in 2001. Gary Becker, an economist at the University of Chicago and a Nobel laureate, notes that before Glaeser came along, ''urban economics was dried up. No one had come up with some new ways to look at cities.'' David Cutler, Glaeser's Harvard colleague and an academic star in his own right, puts it this way: ''I think Ed is probably the most exciting urban researcher in half a century, if not longer.''
In addition to teaching classes, Glaeser has recently taken over the Taubman Center at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, which finances studies on local and state governments, as well as the university's Rappaport Institute, which tries to link Harvard faculty members with Boston-related projects. As a result, Glaeser now divides his time between doing his personal research and serving as a dashing public advocate for urbanism. And he does make an effort to be dashing. Glaeser is not heir to the tweedy, harrumphing, bad-haircut tradition of academics. He radiates a confidence that to some fellow economists borders on arrogance. He has a tendency to speak quickly and in paragraphs rather than sentences, while projecting an Old World decorousness more reminiscent of Edith Wharton's New York than of today's Boston. He is tall, broad-shouldered and patrician in his bearing; he began wearing three-piece suits 23 years ago, back when he was in prep school, he says. One afternoon last December in his Cambridge office, Glaeser sported a bespoke pinstriped get-up and a pale blue silk tie, which he had tucked into a matching, fully buttoned pinstripe vest draped with the gold fob from his pocket watch. His shoes shone. He seemed to have stepped from a hansom cab, missing only a top hat. As he began to explain some of his recent work on housing prices, his large silver cuff links clinked against the table.
 Unlike that of most other housing economists, Glaeser's recent work on real estate addresses the issues of supply rather than of demand. He is far more interested in the forces shaping land development and residential building in the United States than in the forces shaping buyers' motivations and actions. He views supply as crucial to appreciating what has happened to the U.S. real-estate market over the past 30 years. A few months ago, he traveled from his Harvard office to the Massachusetts State House, near Boston Common, to discuss with the leaders of the State Legislature a research project he had just completed on the local housing market. Between 1980 and 2000, four of the five cities in the U.S. with the fastest-growing housing prices were in Boston's metropolitan area: Cambridge, Somerville, Newton and Boston itself. (Palo Alto had the second-fastest-rising prices over that time.) Glaeser and several colleagues considered two explanations. First, the possibility that builders in the metro area were running out of land and that home prices reflected that scarcity. The second hypothesis was that building permits were scarce, not land. Had the 187 townships in the metro area created a web of regulations that hindered building to such a degree that demand far outstripped supply, driving prices up?
 Almost as a rule, Glaeser is skeptical of the lack-of-land argument. He has previously noted (with a collaborator, Matthew Kahn) that 95 percent of the United States remains undeveloped and that if every American were given a house on a quarter acre, so that every family of four had a full acre, that distribution would not use up half the land in Texas. Most of Boston's metro area, he concluded, wasn't particularly dense, and even in places where it was, like the centers of Boston and Cambridge, there was ample opportunity to construct higher buildings with more housing units.
 So, after sorting through a mountain of data, Glaeser decided that the housing crisis was man-made. The region's zoning regulations -- which were enacted by locales in the first half of the 20th century to separate residential land from commercial and industrial land and which generally promoted the orderly growth of suburbs -- had become so various and complex in the second half of the 20th century that they were limiting growth. Land-use rules of the 1920's were meant to assure homeowners that their neighbors wouldn't raise hogs in their backyards, throw up a shack on a sliver of land nearby or build a factory next door, but the zoning rules of the 1970's and 1980's were different in nature and effect. Regulations in Glaeser's new hometown of Weston, for instance, made extremely large lot sizes mandatory in some neighborhoods and placed high environmental hurdles (some reasonable, others not, in Glaeser's view) in front of developers. Other towns passed ordinances governing sidewalks, street widths, the shape of lots, septic lines and so on -- all with the result, in Glaeser's analysis, of curtailing the supply of housing. The same phenomenon, he says, has inflated prices in metro areas all along the East and West Coasts.
 It is rather unlikely that Glaeser is calling attention to the evolution of zoning to make an ideological argument or to pin the blame on local officials for any sort of housing bubble. ''He doesn't wake up in the morning and say, 'My agenda is to fight government,''' says his Harvard colleague Martin Feldstein, an economist long in favor of privatizing Social Security and who, you might argue, knows what it's like to wake up with that agenda. While Glaeser admits to a libertarian bent, with a preference for market solutions over government solutions (he calls rent control ''bad, bad, bad''), his inconsistencies are such that his colleagues disagree over whether he comes from the political center or the right. Certainly no one accuses him of being a lefty. But Glaeser has many admirers, and several research collaborators, on the liberal end of the spectrum; he likewise displays an odd enthusiasm for progressive efforts like those by London's mayor, Ken Livingstone (Glaeser affectionately calls him by his popular nickname, Red Ken), who imposed a stringent ''traffic tax'' on vehicles in the center city to reduce congestion.
 Glaeser's goal seems less to further a particular philosophy than to explain the interplay of housing and human behavior. His desire to provide a persuasive, data-driven explanation for elevated home prices fits into a decade of research that he says he hopes will ultimately provide a broad and ambitious framework to explain the function and evolution of America's cities. His view is that the life of the city cannot (and should not) be separated from its real-estate market. ''They mutually cause each other,'' he says. ''Housing supply determines to a certain extent what goes on with the economic life of the city; and the economic life of the city is intimately related to the demand for housing. And you cannot possibly understand that if you're going to try and treat them as being separate.'' Put another way, we shape cities; cities shape real estate; real estate shapes cities. And cities shape us too.
 Cities, Glaeser often says, should be thought of as ''the absence of physical space between people and firms.'' This sounds like a poetic definition of urbanism, but it is actually more than that. To Glaeser, the concentration of people and business puts us close enough to share one another's company, culture and ideas. That goes not only for a densely packed place like Manhattan but also for car-based areas like Silicon Valley. As David Cutler points out, almost all of Glaeser's work is about social interaction and space, about seeing cities as places where all kinds of important transactions occur in ''the union of everything.'' It is not a coincidence that one of Glaeser's great heroes is the writer Jane Jacobs, a keen, street-level observer of cities who celebrated the freedom and vitality of urban neighborhoods; he keeps an autographed copy of her book ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities'' on his bookshelf. In economic jargon, city living creates what Glaeser calls ''spillovers.'' Some urban spillovers are not so good, like the pollution and congestion from so many people and cars. But others are the very essence of civilized life -- the decency of community, the spread of ideas, the possibility of sublime inspiration. If there is a common theme to his work, Glaeser says, it is that ''people are changed by the people around them.'' And it is the absence of physical distance, more than anything else, that makes that happen.
 Much of Glaeser's outlook derives from his own experience. Growing up in Manhattan, where his father was an architectural historian and a curator at the Museum of Modern Art, he found it difficult not to get swept up in the city's density and energy. He traces the origins of his career in economics to his mother, who worked for the John D. Rockefeller 3rd Foundation dispensing grants to artists. ''She went back to get her M.B.A. when I was 10,'' he says, ''and I would occasionally go with her to classes when I was on vacation.'' Some adults remember fondly the first time they went to a major-league baseball game. Glaeser recalls a revelatory experience as a youngster when his mother sat him down and explained marginal cost pricing. In high school thereafter, and as an undergraduate at Princeton, he spent most of his time on math, economics and history. The physical sciences were a bore, he says: ''How the sun works? I just didn't care. But I did care about people and man's interaction in his environment.''
 The University of Chicago gave Glaeser the opportunity to study at what was arguably, at the time, the best economics department in the United States, a stellar lineup of soon-to-be Nobel laureates like Gary Becker and Robert Lucas. In the regular seminars where members of the faculty typically sat at a central table and graduate students were on the classroom's periphery, Glaeser would sit at the faculty table, recalls his friend Matthew Kahn, now an economics professor at Tufts University. ''So at a very early stage he saw the academics as a peer group,'' Kahn says. ''At the time, it seemed audacious to me, but now it makes perfect sense.'' If there were two seminal moments for Glaeser at Chicago, the first was reading through a paper by Robert Lucas, ''On the Mechanics of Economic Development,'' that looked at forces that spur economic growth around the world. Deep in Lucas's paper, there is a glancing mention of the role that human capital -- the term economists use for the skills and knowledge that people possess -- might play with respect to cities. Glaeser began to mull on that. In the meantime, he began working with his thesis adviser, the Brazilian economist Jose Scheinkman, on a study that considered whether it is better for a city to be focused on one particular industry, like textiles or finance, or whether a city with diverse industries is healthier and richer. Glaeser's and Scheinkman's paper came to the conclusion, surprising at the time, that given the choice, any city that wanted to grow should pursue commercial diversity rather than specificity. In economic circles, the paper made Glaeser famous in his mid-20's. Harvard invited him to join its faculty in 1992.
 One day this January, Glaeser took the lectern in Midtown Manhattan to deliver a lecture, sponsored by the Manhattan Institute, titled ''Why Are Skilled Cities Getting More Skilled?'' He didn't answer this question right away. In the years since coming to Harvard -- and in the years that have preceded his current work on real estate -- Glaeser has methodically examined how transportation, education, crime, weather and sprawl affect the fortunes of America's cities, as if turning over tarot cards one by one. He isn't the only economist to look at these subjects, but he is arguably the most original in assimilating careful and highly mathematical economic research. His lecture, given to an audience of about 90 people, first discussed the historical trends that have shaped urban growth. Until recently, cities existed to economize on transportation costs -- hence their locations near industries or agriculture to reduce the expense of shipping products by sea or by train. Yet because transport (mainly trucking) costs dropped significantly during the 20th century, location has become irrelevant. In Glaeser's view, cities now exist so that people can have face-to-face interactions or be entertained or consume products and services. For businesses, cities are a place to benefit from a spillover in ideas and to reduce costs by being near other companies.
 This evolution, of course, has coincided with a vast American migration toward regions of sun and sprawl. Glaeser likes to point out the close correlation between a city's average January temperature and its urban growth; he also notes that cars per capita in 1990 is among the best indicators of how well a city has fared over the past 15 years. The more cars, the better -- a conclusion that seems perfectly logical to Glaeser. Car-based cities enable residents to buy cheaper, bigger houses. And commuters in car-based cities tend to get to work faster than commuters in cities that rely on public transit. (The average car commute is about 24 minutes; on public transportation, it is around 48 minutes.) While many of his academic peers were looking at, and denigrating, how the majority of Americans have chosen to live, Glaeser (though no fan of the aesthetics of sprawl himself) didn't think an economist should allow taste to affect judgment. ''You shouldn't go around thinking that all these people are just jackasses for deciding to drive an automobile,'' he says.
 In any case, Glaeser discovered that there can be more to urban success than cars and palm trees. For a city without warm weather and a car-friendly environment, skills are destiny. That is why New York and Minneapolis, with vast numbers of college graduates, have done so well. ''Boston would be just another declining, cold, manufacturing city if it weren't for its preponderance of human capital,'' Glaeser says. And his studies suggest that the more skilled a city's population, the more skilled it is becoming, as entrepreneurs attract skilled workers who in turn attract entrepreneurs. Americans, as a result, are sorting themselves through education and geography more and more with each passing year.
 The process yields losers as well as winners. Late last year, Glaeser wrote a controversial article that made a case against rebuilding New Orleans. He has since become an intellectual leader to a tiny, unsentimental, let's-not-rebuild-the-city faction. ''There's some small core of the city that should be there,'' he says, ''but the city itself has been in decline for 50 years and in relative decline for 150 years relative to the U.S. population as a whole. It's not a great spot to have a city; it's incredibly expensive to build the infrastructure to keep it there. You can't possibly argue that New Orleans has been doing a good job of taking care of its poor residents, either economically or socially. And surely some of the residents are better off by being given checks and being allowed to move elsewhere.'' Glaeser admits that many critics have responded to his views with shock, asserting that he is unfairly attacking the city at a moment of terrible vulnerability. ''No one has accused me of hating the poor or being racist,'' he says. ''But I have been accused of not having a heart.''
 It's a familiar complaint. A few years ago, in an article Glaeser wrote about poverty for Harvard's alumni magazine, he suggested eliminating public housing in the U.S. in favor of housing vouchers. His argument was attacked for being coldblooded as well as impractical. Chris Mayer, a housing economist at Columbia Business School and a frequent admirer of Glaeser's research, says that Glaeser's perspective on things tends to attract controversy and incite debate. ''I think Ed does care a lot about helping the poor and about social equality,'' Mayer says, ''but his view of how to get there is a different view than other people.''
 Glaeser, for his part, says he feels the same about New Orleans as he does about many cities of the Rust Belt. ''I believe very strongly that our obligation is to people, not places, and I think we certainly have an obligation -- ethical, economic, what have you -- to the residents of Detroit,'' he told me. But he sees no economic or geographic reason to have a large city there anymore, and he views the prospects for any rebound as dim. (Detroit ranks last among cities with more than 500,000 residents in percentage of college graduates.) The city produced the cars that produced the sprawl that helped destroy the city; such tragedy might have been lessened had it produced more universities too. ''There are no reasons why it can't, and shouldn't, decline,'' Glaeser says. ''And I would say that for many other cities. There's no reason not to let decline go forward.'' The greatness of America is dependent in part upon regional evolutions and migrations, he adds. ''Places decline and places grow. We shouldn't stand in the way of that.''
 Glaeser first began to think about how real estate fit into this urban order a few years ago, after he spent some time looking at the effects of skills and sprawl on cities. While Glaeser seems able to turn out academic papers at an astonishing pace -- he almost always writes at home, so he can smoke cigars while he types -- it sometimes takes years for him and his collaborators to assemble the data and equations used to support his ideas. In addition to his urban research, Glaeser has written on voting behavior, hatred, poverty and public health; a few years ago, with David Cutler, he wrote a widely discussed paper that looked at why Americans are becoming so obese. (They attributed it partly to the microwave oven.) Yet urban subjects have consumed most of Glaeser's time and attention. In the late 1990's, he began thinking less about incorporeal forces like human capital and consumerism and more about the physical nature of places -- buildings, roads, buses -- and what kind of effect that had on a metropolitan area.
 In 2000, Glaeser took a sabbatical from Harvard and began to spend a few days a week in Philadelphia working with Joseph Gyourko, a real-estate economist at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Glaeser had already been thinking about the relationship between housing and urban poverty when one day he and Gyourko began to discuss why cities like Philadelphia and Detroit -- places with poor future prospects, both economists believed -- weren't doing even worse in terms of population. Why didn't everyone leave, Gyourko wondered, and go to a place like Charlotte, N.C., that had a fast-growing economy? This question addresses a puzzle of urban economics. Cities (think of Las Vegas or Phoenix) can grow at a very fast rate, exploding overnight with businesses and residents. Some can increase in population by 50 or even 60 percent in a decade. But cities lose their residents very slowly and almost never at a pace of more than 10 percent in a decade. What's more, when cities grow, they expand significantly in population, but housing prices tend to rise slowly; even as Las Vegas grew by leaps and bounds in the 1990's, for instance, the average home there cost well under $200,000. When cities decline, however, the trends get flipped around. Population diminishes slowly, but housing prices tend to drop markedly.
 Glaeser and Gyourko determined that the durable nature of housing itself explains this phenomenon. People can flee, but houses can take a century or more to finally fall to pieces. ''These places still exist,'' Glaeser says of Detroit and St. Louis, ''because the housing is permanent. And if you want to understand why they're poor, it's actually also in part because the housing is permanent.'' For Glaeser, this is the story not only of these two places but also of Buffalo, Baltimore, Cleveland, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh -- the powerhouse cities of America in 1950 that consistently and inexorably lost population over the next 50 years. It is not just that there were poor people and the jobs left and the poor people were stuck there. ''Thousands of poor come to Detroit each year and live in places that are cheaper than any other place to live in part because they've got durable housing still around,'' Glaeser says. The net population of Detroit usually decreases each year, in other words, but the city still attracts plenty of people drawn by its extreme affordability. As Gyourko points out, in the year 2000 the median house price in Philadelphia was $59,700; in Detroit, it was $63,600. Those prices are well below the actual construction costs of the homes. ''To build them new, it would cost at least $80,000,'' Gyourko says, ''so there's no builder who would build those today. And as long as those houses remain, the people remain.''
 The resulting paper, ''Urban Decline and Durable Housing,'' caused a stir among urban economists even before its publication last year. (It was initially circulated with a subtitle along the lines of ''Why Does Anyone Still Live in Detroit?'' until the authors, thinking it politically insensitive, removed it.) In addition to illuminating some of the forces shaping our poorest cities, the research proved to Glaeser that it is impossible to think about urban economies without thinking of urban buildings at the same time. Meanwhile, it demonstrated to him how useful it can be to consider the relationship between actual construction costs and the market price of homes. That lesson seemed to apply not only to declining cities but also to places with extraordinary price appreciation, like the San Francisco or Boston metro areas. How could homes in these places be priced so much higher than construction costs? And why did the prices keep going up?
 Glaeser has come to believe that changes in zoning regulations may be the most important transformation in the American real-estate market since the mass acceptance of the automobile. In his view, these regulations have essentially created a ''zoning tax'' that has pushed prices far above construction costs. Very, very far above construction costs. It is not a perspective shared by all housing analysts; some economists have been far more inclined to blame high prices on high demand (spurred by low interest rates) or on rampant speculation. Others agree with Glaeser in emphasizing supply but not necessarily fixing on zoning. Karl Case, for instance, an economist at Wellesley College who counts himself a fan of Glaeser's, agrees that lack of supply has led to steep prices in the Boston area, but he attributes the housing shortage not just to zoning but also to the nature of the construction business and the scarcity of large desirable tracts of land. Still, among the half-dozen leading economists who study housing supply, there seems to be wide agreement that regulations have had a tremendous effect on prices. ''I think the evidence is overwhelming,'' says John Quigley, an urban economist at Berkeley who has looked specifically at the effects of regulation on the California market.
 As Glaeser says: ''It's so easy to forget the world that we were living in around 1970, when basically almost all of the value of houses was in the physical infrastructure. That was actually the cost. There was some land, and it was worth something, but it wasn't worth more than 20 percent of the value of the house.'' Even in New York City, Glaeser says, the price of an apartment back then was essentially the cost of building the next floor. In researching New York City's housing prices, in fact, Glaeser and Gyourko discovered that over the past 30 years, the average height of new residential buildings in Manhattan decreased in size. ''That's crazy,'' he insists, especially in light of how much the demand to live in New York has increased. ''You know, if prices in Manhattan are skyrocketing, you should be building more and more at 50 stories, rather than at 30. Not the reverse.'' So is it his contention that Manhattan could build far more than it has recently? ''Oh, for sure,'' he says. ''Technologically? Certainly. No reason why you couldn't.''
 Let's go back to Manhattan in the 1920's, Glaeser says. ''New York in the 1920's is a pretty developed place, a pretty mature place. But they're producing a hundred thousand units a year. They're tearing up swaths of Manhattan and building higher buildings.'' That would be legally and politically impossible today, but as he and Gyourko see things, it is precisely those legal and political roadblocks to ''tearing up'' the city that have made the place so expensive. Actually, in 2004, the two men took a close look at Manhattan and estimated that one half or more of the value of condominiums in the borough could be thought of as arising from some type of regulatory constraint preventing the construction of new housing. The data for co-ops (because of their ownership structure) was more difficult to interpret, but Glaeser and Gyourko suspect that their estimates probably apply to the Manhattan market as a whole.
 Glaeser has little doubt that there are regular cycles in real-estate markets; the recent slowdown may perhaps be evidence of one of those cycles. But he says he doesn't think that the supply issues are something that will disappear, even if the demand for housing levels off or drops over the next few years. ''We will never go back to a world in which developers in Massachusetts or California or New York are able to do what they want with their property unimpeded by their neighbors,'' he says. And what surprises him is that the changes in how we have treated property rights for the last 40 years -- who gets permission to build, the size and location of what owners are permitted to build -- have been the subject of virtually no national dialogue, even as the effects on prices, in his view, have been extraordinary.
 This is not to suggest that Glaeser wants New York or Boston to become another Houston or Phoenix, where developers build without hindrance and housing, as a result, stays cheap. ''I'm pretty sure that Boston and California have gone too far to one extreme,'' he says. ''But I'm not sure that Texas hasn't gone too far to the other extreme.'' He says he tends to think that officials in the Boston and New York metro areas need to allow for more housing when the market gets tighter again. At the very least, he says, officials should discuss the long-term effects of restricting home building. And there is a bigger point here anyway, he says. Zoning and housing supply ultimately determine not only who lives in a city but also the very nature of these places. Boston, San Francisco and Manhattan are obviously becoming rarefied destinations, mostly for America's elites (Glaeser calls the cities ''luxury goods''), with housing floating beyond the reach of the young and the middle class. These cities' economies are in the process of becoming boutique, too, accommodating only the most skilled and privileged. Their desire to limit construction and grow not in buildings and population but in prices has, in effect, begun to shape their destiny. ''A healthy city is one that has a healthy mix of demographic groups,'' Glaeser says. ''Shutting out your 25-to-40 year-olds? That feels like a bad strategy for urban innovation.''
 But economists, like any social scientists, often discover that the leap from conducting research to making policy can be enormously difficult. It can take years, perhaps decades -- and that's when it happens at all. Glaeser is fortunate in that he already has the ear of mayors and state legislators who at least took notice of his recent work on regulations in the Boston metro area. Still, he admits it will be difficult to go against the current momentum. ''I'm not in any sense trying to suggest that we want a developer's paradise where you can build anything, anywhere,'' he says. ''But I sure as heck think the current situation happened by happenstance, happened by changing the legal norms, which in no sense is guaranteed to yield a socially desirable outcome.'' Homeowners, he points out, have a strong incentive to stop new development, both because it can be an inconvenience and also because, like any monopolist, stopping supply drives up the price of their own homes. ''Lack of affordable housing isn't a problem to homeowners,'' Glaeser says; that's exactly what they want. ''The thing you want most is to make sure that your home is not affordable if you own it. And for that reason, there's absolutely no reason to think that little suburban communities with no businesses that are run essentially by their homeowners will make the right decisions for the state as a whole, for the business in the area, for the country as a whole.''
 As a matter of fact, Glaeser long ago became convinced that there is a lot riding on supply. ''The welfare of the world is shaped in part by our urban form, by the way that we live, the way our communities are constructed,'' he says. ''These things like growth controls have changed the way communities are developed.'' Joseph Gyourko shares the view that where we live, and why we sort ourselves into those places, have profound effects on society, culture, politics and business. ''It's important,'' he says of the sorting process. ''It's not an innocent thing.'' Thus, the two academics have resumed their real-estate research, taking on two projects. The first, closer to completion, is an attempt to explain the occurrence of housing cycles. So far, the preliminary data have led Glaeser to believe that the past decade's run-up in prices is probably caused by factors beyond the restrictions on supply; the home-appreciation numbers appear to be so high that they suggest that prices in coastal cities have some psychological component too. (In his view, the supply shortage greatly magnifies the effect of any sort of ''irrational exuberance.'') Glaeser is the kind of economist who is reluctant to make predictions. Yet, he says, ''I'm comfortable with the notion that we're going to have a substantial correction over the next five years.''
 His other project is both more ambitious and more difficult. He and Gyourko say they know that the country's regulatory environment, and thus the supply of housing, began to change around 1975. But they don't know why it changed. So along with a third researcher, Raven Saks, they have begun to track building permits from hundreds of cities around the country over the past four decades to investigate the nature of the evolution. Glaeser speculates that there may be a viral phenomenon whereby once housing prices reach a certain level, residents become aware of high home values and agitate for restrictions; another possibility is that judges have become much more sympathetic to blocking development for environmental reasons. Still another thought: that homeowners, utilizing skills learned during the civil rights movement and political protests of the 1960's and 1970's, became much more adept at organizing against developers. (There appears to be a reasonable correlation between liberal enclaves, zoning regulations and high housing prices.) In any event, Glaeser says, he doesn't know the answer yet, and it may take years to find out.
 He was explaining this one afternoon in January as he sat in a club chair on a third-floor landing at the Harvard Club in Midtown Manhattan. Glaeser visits urban neighborhoods all around the U.S., but his teaching schedule often restricts his observation of the American landscape to data and algebraic models. When it was time to go, he seemed relieved to step onto the concrete sidewalk, into the city he once called the country's ''urban colossus.'' Waiting for the light to change at 44th Street and Fifth Avenue, the defender of sprawl, the explainer of human capital and the avenger of zoning regulations -- and the wearer of a splendid beige cashmere overcoat -- didn't seem much suited for the suburbs of Boston. Here on the street, disappearing into a crowd of people, he seemed right at home.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Professor Glaeser at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. (Photograph by Michael Edwards)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); WEATHER (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); HURRICANES (59%) Urban Areas; Suburbs ; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Zoning; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Urban Areas

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: Jon Gertner; Edward L (Prof) Glaeser

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



84 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: After Neoconservatism

 BODY:
Francis Fukuyama (Feb. 19) does not quite argue it this way, of course, but his article suggests that the neoconservatives rushed into the Iraq war because they actually believed their own propaganda that the Soviet empire fell apart as a direct result of the neoconservative policies of the Reagan era. In fact, economically, politically and culturally, the empire was already disintegrating by the 1980's. During both the 1980's and in recent years, neocons believed in their cherry-picked intelligence. 
 The Reagan administration's foreign-policy successes began when Reagan listened to his pal Maggie Thatcher, who was more in tune with what was happening in Eastern Europe. ''I like Mr. Gorbachev,'' she said. ''We can do business together.'' And so they did. 

Melissa MaCauley
 Evanston, Ill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Melissa Macauley; Francis Fukuyama

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (65%) IRAQ (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (65%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



85 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: The For-Sale Society

 BODY:
What could be more solid, more firmly rooted, than real estate?
A house stands while occupants come, hopeful and expectant, and go, transferred, perhaps, divorced or just in search of something better. But people leave their marks. They knock down walls and tile the bath; they plant poplars in the backyard. A house becomes a statement of taste and priority and a daily source of pride or rebuke. ''A most simple majesty'' is how Franklin Hata, the emotionally-constricted protagonist of Chang-rae Lee's ''Gesture Life,'' described this sensation of dominion over real estate. Hata also saw in a house ''the shape of one's life, how it has transformed and, with any luck, multiplied and grown.'' 
 We are our houses, in other words, and over the last decade, as prices have soared to impossible heights, real estate has occupied a much larger part of our conversation. This week, we devote an entire issue to the topic of real estate and how it changes us. Some of these transformations are about broad economic forces: how Bushwick, one of the most crime-ridden places in New York, began to be populated by trendy restaurants and artists' lofts; how an accidental tax deduction came to be thought of as the foundation of homeownership in the United States; and one economist's surprising views on why housing prices are so high in some cities.
 We also chronicle the exploits of people who, in one way or another, are trying to put their marks on property: the couple who constructed the most environmentally sensitive house they could; the billionaire trying to buy fabulous vacation resorts for the superwealthy; and the speculator who has the confidence -- some would say audacity -- to bet large on his vision of a real-estate boom in the wrecked city of New Orleans. 
 What these people will see in their creations is, of course, impossible to know. Franklin Hata was ultimately dismayed by what his Tudor house, renovated to perfection over the years, conveyed of the shape of his life. Most of us hope for better. 
 But even if we fail to give our own houses a desirable shape, the houses will still be standing, waiting for the next occupant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESORTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (51%) Housing

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



86 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-05-06; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Home Sweet Debt

BYLINE: By Walter Kirn. 
Walter Kirn, a frequent contributor, is the author, most recently, of ''Mission to America,'' a novel.

 BODY:
Every night, like millions of other homeowners, I lock the doors, turn off the lights, peer out the windows to check for burglars and go to bed inside my money. It's all around me, in the walls and ceilings, under the floors and spread across the yard. Some nights, when I'm lying very still, I imagine that I can even feel it growing. That faint vibration in the foundation? That subtle rumbling in the Sheetrock? It's not a small earthquake; it's equity accumulating in the cozy three-bedroom portfolio I call home.
Or maybe it's equity vanishing? I can't tell. I'm not a banker or a broker. When I bought my house several years ago, paying the asking price without a fuss after selling another house at its asking price, I didn't regard it as an investment but as a dwelling place that suited my needs. It reminded me of the house that I grew up in, whose value I never once thought to ask my parents about because it wasn't expressible in dollars. I loved that old house for its feeling of security, its reassuring wooden solidity, and that feeling was what I hoped to duplicate when I moved into this one decades later. 
 But things had changed, I realized, as time went on and my book of mortgage coupons grew thinner. The physical structure in which I hung my clothes and arranged my furniture was also a financial structure, and the security it seemed to offer fluctuated with the market -- not only the local housing market but the national and international credit markets. A refuge? A castle? It didn't quite feel that way. Once I had remodeled the place, refinanced it and borrowed against its appreciating value to buy a depreciating car, I discovered -- as so many of us do these days -- that I was living in a bond with bathrooms, a stock certificate with a front porch.
 I know I'm not alone in my mixed feelings about the economic and cultural shifts that have turned what we once called ''houses'' and ''apartments'' into what we now refer to as ''residential real estate.'' It's a chilly, bureaucratic term that reflects an unsentimental fact: Americans have far more than their emotions tied up in their homes these days. They're our chief economic assets, in many cases -- our sleep-in piggy banks and even our slot machines -- and we're spending more and risking more in order to acquire them and hang on to them.
 And many of us are worrying about being able to, thanks to a hyperactive lending industry that has been making it easier than ever to get in over our heads. The simple fixed-rate mortgages of old whose first and final payments were the same (and which I remember occasioning backyard barbecues when they were finally paid off) have mutated into complicated instruments that make borrowers more susceptible than ever to the fickle gods of finance. This is good and bad. Adjustable-rate mortgages (including the misleadingly named and popular ''interest only'' variety) have brought down initial payments for many people who might not have been able to buy a home at all, but they have also induced a lot of folks to purchase more home than they can handle. Big spenders have also been lured by lenders' willingness to raise the ceilings on the amounts they'll lend.
 The new mortgages, which amount to bets that a borrower's income will keep pace if interest rates rise (which they're doing and look as if they'll go on doing), cast doubt on whether the word ''homeowner'' is even widely suitable anymore. ''Home-hoper'' or merely ''occupier'' might be better. Even in the bubbliest local markets, like those on both coasts and in certain favored ZIP codes, it's hard to know if the four walls around you are standing firm or closing in. It all depends, and on so many things.
 As an adjustable-rate-mortgage holder whose loan will reset in 2007 (along with an estimated $1 trillion in similarly structured personal debt), I find myself reading the papers nowadays with an especially anxious eye for looming short- to midterm problems that might somehow boost my payments to the moon. Unfortunately, like many in my position, I lack the sophistication to discern what sort of problems I need to be afraid of. A dirty bomb? Global warming? The bird flu? Will they help or harm me? Not as a human being, I mean, or as a citizen, but as a guy on a budget whose old frame house could, frankly, use a second bathroom, if he could only get the financing.
 It's easy to fall into shameful solipsism when your ability to retain your dwelling -- or to draw on its worth for a range of goods and services, from riding mowers to Carnival Cruises to children's college tuitions -- is subject to distant unmanageable forces, many of which weren't even manifest when you first bought the place. I sometimes think that it doesn't seem fair to have signed a mortgage before the War on Terrorism, as my monthly payments may rise because of it. Maybe I should have negotiated this exemption: ''The party of the first part shall not be penalized for any inflationary processes not evident to him at the time of closing.''
 Isn't the idea of a home to give a person a sanctuary from history? To grant him shelter from the worldwide storm? Maybe in theory. Maybe way back when. Today, however, our ''residential properties'' (because of the ways we have arranged to pay for them) are a source of our vulnerability. I live in Montana, on a farm, which ought to be as fine a place to hide as this enormous continent can offer, yet I jump every time the federal government releases what the business pages call ''new numbers.'' I don't want new numbers! I want the old numbers to stay the same! I want to hold on to my house -- or, even better, to sell it at a profit and buy another one, maybe in Alaska.
 But maybe I'm overcorrecting, as the financial writers say. According to some studies, there's encouraging news hiding inside all the jargon and statistics that homeowners nowadays must keep abreast of even when they're neither selling nor buying but merely trying to determine where they stand and wondering how their standing can be improved. In a lot of regions in America, the percentage of the median income needed to buy the median-priced home is lower than it was 20 years ago. Housing is cheaper in these places, relatively speaking. But is it, really? Not if, like me and millions of other homeowners, people have turned the roofs over their heads into gigantic credit cards by taking out home-equity credit lines. And not if taxes are rising, as they are here, along with insurance rates and power bills and the price of those rotary gizmos that you push to spread fertilizer pellets on the lawn.
 Having your home as your chief asset sounds like a snug and tidy situation, but when you consider all the ways that such an asset can shrink, seduce you into overreaching, expose you to uncontrollable global troubles or just plain fall to ruin, it can make you nostalgic for passbook savings accounts. It can also, in subtle ways, prevent you from truly bonding with the place. Can an asset -- a thing of numbers -- be a home? Eudora Welty, the writer, died a few years ago, at 92, while residing in the same Mississippi house that she lived in as a child. I've been in a few such long-tenanted domiciles. They feel like shells excreted by their occupants, like extensions of their owners' souls and bodies. They barely feel physical, in some respects. They're human biographies written in brick and wood, and it's hard to imagine them on the open market, suffering the pragmatic molestations of appraisers, real-estate agents and inspectors. Worse is imagining how theymight be advertised in the reductive language of the trade: ''3 br, 1* baths, fenced yard, all appliances inc., needs some updates.''
 Although there's no telling how long I'll keep my house or what the market will do to our relationship, I like to think that the place is part of me and reflects my spirit, tastes and habits. I know that it has begun to smell like me. I also know some of the stories behind its worn spots, like the groove in the kitchen floor where I slide back and forth in my chair while writing. To be honest, I'm wary of growing too attached. Sometimes at night I lay down my weary head, and it feels as if I'm resting inside a big thick checkbook. Whose balance I don't (and may not want to) know.

 Percent of new mortgages, by quarter, for residential properties, based on top 100 lenders. (Source: National Mortgage News, Composite Residential Origination Statistics)(Chart by 5W Infographic)

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Larry Sultan)''BETTING ON THE HOUSE''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%) Housing; Mortgages

PERSON: Walter Kirn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



87 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; DIRECTIONS: THE CONVERSATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Go Ahead, Turn That Thing On

BYLINE: By Virginia Heffernan

 BODY:
Television's not bad for you! I knew it! Sure, it may not be superb -- it doesn't turn you into a morally substantial person or even much of a voter -- but it's not trans fat either, unsafe at any dose. TV doesn't cause epilepsy and it doesn't give you S.A.T. scores of 47 and it doesn't make you kill your siblings. 
 What happened is that two Gen-Y economists from the University of Chicago -- Matthew Gentzkow, 30, and Jesse Shapiro, 26 -- found some documents that seemed to put television back on a positive tip. Truth be told, they barely did any research, but they went with it, and got their study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research.
Good for them. In their mellow ''natural experiment,'' people who had the chance to binge on ''The Howdy Doody Show'' and ''Captain Kangaroo'' 50 years ago made out just fine compared with people who didn't. Not to gloat, but they even did a little better, compared with people who grew up in cities that were late to get television.
 Basically, the TV-happy little rascals of 1950 Seattle scored as well as the sweethearts of late-adapting 1950 Denver, where children presumably spent their days playing jack straws and reading the imaginative work of Robert Louis Stevenson.
 Got it? It's a nice idea. Television, after all, is the only art form reviewed in this newspaper that is also regarded as a public health hazard; maybe this news will help to clear its name and win it some respect. But I wouldn't count on it. Study after anti-television study has failed to pinpoint the exact perils that viewers are prone to, and yet the idea that television is dangerous persists as an article of faith. If it's not the content that's corrupting us, it's the cathode or the commercials or the editing or the pixels or the screen size. Something about television is just no good.
 But instead of trying to prove that television is bad -- or even trying to prove, god forbid, that it's good -- maybe we should wonder what it is about watching television that makes it seem, of all our daily activities, uniquely decadent and destructive. That's part of the thrill, sure, but my guess is that reflexive human self-loathing also causes us to savage television as our proxy: television has got to be bad for us because it's so wonderfully appealing.
 If you're into finding flaws in economic experiments, maybe you want to waste the day picking apart this study so you can continue to revel in television-hating. But we TV watchers know a good thing when we see it, and this study's a keeper.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); OILS & FATS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Television; Children and Youth; Research

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Virginia Heffernan

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



88 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Why Rules Can't Stop Executive Greed 

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN the arena of executive compensation, two recent developments stand out against the backdrop of continuing looting. First, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced plans to make corporations more fully disclose executive pay. Second, a study by Mercer Human Resource Consulting found that more companies were imposing performance targets on the stock and options they granted to C.E.O.'s.
 To the uninitiated, these events may suggest that some moderation is in the offing, but ultimately neither will help much. Any benefit from shining the cleansing light of day on executive greed will probably be outweighed by the inflationary effect of additional disclosure, which will provide more ammunition for executives and consultants seeking to justify additional increases. They have to keep up with the Joneses, they'll say. 
Tying pay more firmly to performance won't help, either. Boards will find ways around the requirements if performance isn't up to snuff, and they will continue to bid irrationally for unduly coveted executives. 
 As Rakesh Khurana showed in his insightful book, ''Searching for a Corporate Savior: The Irrational Quest for Charismatic C.E.O.'s'' (Princeton University Press, 2002), there is a much wider pool of potential chief executives than soaring pay levels would seem to imply. But companies insist on bidding for a savior, not a capable leader who knows the business at hand, which may be why typical C.E.O. tenures are now so short. Even in the boardroom, charisma carries you only so far. 
 Indeed, linking pay to stock prices is liable to do more harm than good. A stock price isn't much of a measure of executive performance, anyway. A huge part of that price reflects industry conditions; energy companies soared not because they were run by paragons of diligence or insight, but because of world events beyond any executive's control. In hard times, moreover, a company's stock may take a hit, but those are precisely the times when good leadership is most difficult -- and valuable.
 Other performance metrics can be equally troublesome, encouraging executives to massage earnings, sacrifice long-term strength for higher short-term sales and profits and otherwise act in ways detrimental to everyone but the C.E.O., his family and a few lucky divorce lawyers. 
 Perverse incentives notwithstanding, this focus on metrics is a sad acknowledgment by corporate directors that they cannot control themselves or the pay they hand over to their top five executives. In one study, two professors, Lucian A. Bebchuk of Harvard and Yaniv Grinstein of Cornell, found that from 2001 to 2003, such pay totaled roughly 10 percent of corporate profits at public companies. It's a bizarre twist on the tradition of tithing, one that benefits the rich instead of the needy and conscripts America's shareholders as involuntary donors. 
 Although more disclosure and pay-for-performance requirements won't dampen runaway C.E.O. compensation, both are useful for illustrating a larger lesson: that it's naive to place too much faith in the power of rules to limit human behavior. Indeed, the problem of C.E.O. compensation suggests that, as in many aspects of modern life, few mechanisms of constraint are as effective as one on which we relied so often in the past. That mechanism was shame.
 You'd think that more disclosure would produce more shame, and thus less pay, for C.E.O.'s and other top executives. Unfortunately, disclosure of a few more million here and there won't fundamentally change a hiring system that actively recruits the most grasping and hubristic candidates. Consider the incentives: by offering lavish pay and perks that would make royalty blush, corporate directors today are perhaps unwittingly selecting C.E.O.'s for shamelessness and egotism rather than leadership.
 HISTORY teaches that there is no ultimate solution to the so-called agency problem, or the tendency of those who merely work in an enterprise to act in their own interest rather than that of the owners. Rules and incentives can help, of course, but they cannot take the place of an honest sense of obligation, duty and loyalty -- values that ought to run in all directions in any decent corporate culture.
 This web of mutual obligation is an invisible social safety net -- a form of corporate social capital -- which we've unfortunately allowed to fray. Rapidly rising income inequality is a sign of the resulting imbalance. 
 Corporate chieftains may continue to enjoy unearned bounty, but they should not be surprised if someday they -- and the hapless investors who employ them -- reap the same brand of cynicism they are sowing. If that happens, we'll all be poorer for it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); ETHICS (74%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; Ethics; Bonuses 

COMPANY: MERCER INC (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%) Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Daniel Akst

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



89 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2316 words

HEADLINE: The Collective Conscious

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Contemporary art is a multibillion-dollar global industry. But why does such a big deal look so small, so slight, with its bland paintings, self-regarding videos, artful tchotchkes and shoppable M.F.A. artists-to-watch? There has to be another way to go, an alternative to a used-up ''alternative.'' By far the most interesting option so far, one that began to be news a few years ago and has increased its visibility since, is the work of miniature subcultures known as collectives. Basically, art collectives do away with the one-artist-one-object model. They come in various sizes and formats: couples, quartets, teams, tribes and amorphous cyberspace communities. 
Sometimes a group of artists assumes the identity of a single person; sometimes, a single artist assumes the identity of many. Membership may be official, or casual, or even accidental: friends brainstorming in an apartment or strangers collaborating on the Internet from continents away. And they may or may not refer to their activities as art. Research, archiving and creative hacking are just as likely to produce objects, experiences, information that is politically didactic or end-in-itself beautiful, or both. One way or another, joint production among parties of equal standing -- we're not talking about master artist and studio assistants here -- scrambles existing aesthetic formulas. It may undermine the cult of the artist as media star, dislodge the supremacy of the precious object and unsettle the economic structures that make the art world a mirror image of the inequities of American culture at large. In short, it confuses how we think about art and assign value to it. This can only be good. 
 Consider, for example, the work of a collective with the name 0100101110101101.ORG. It consists of two young Spanish artists, Eva and Franco Mattes, who call their art ''media actionism.'' Last year, they produced an elaborate international promotional campaign (posters, magazine, trailer, etc.) for a Hollywood-style war film titled ''United We Stand,'' starring Penelope Cruz and Ewan McGregor.
 The images in the poster and trailer, with barely disguised but heroicized references to the current war in Iraq, can be taken as typical examples of Hollywood-style propaganda-as-history. But the layers of deception go deeper. The film itself, echoing President Bush's triumphal ''Top Gun'' turn, exists only as advertising. It is a fiction built on fantasy. But thanks to an extensive poster campaign, the nonexistent film may lodge in our consciousness all the same. 
 For an earlier project, the collective created a benign computer virus as a work of art and made it available on a computer disc. For another, it hacked the Nike Corporation's Web site, inserting an ''official'' announcement of Nike plazas to be built in cities all over the world. If art can be defined as the purposeful shaping of images to embody and expand ideas, this collective's activities easily qualify. 
 If you want to locate the discrete work of art, however, you have a problem. You can own a piece of the ''United We Stand'' project by buying (or stealing) a poster, and you might get the virus whether you want it or not. What's really on offer, though, is conceptual substance: ideas about surveillance, ownership and the pervasiveness of the cultural propaganda otherwise known as popular entertainment.
 Other collectives, several of which are represented in the 2006 Whitney Biennial, which opened last week, stretch conventional definitions of art and artist even further, into the realm of activist politics, scientific experimentation and historical reclamation. 
 Critical Art Ensemble, now well known because of the 2004 investigation of one of its members, Steve Kurtz, on suspicion of bioterrorist activities, combines the first two elements. Well aware of 1960's communalism, and directly influenced by collectives from the AIDS movement -- Act Up, Gran Fury, Group Material -- Critical Art Ensemble operates as a combination of scientific investigative unit, anticapitalist guerrilla cell, public service agency and multimedia art studio. It has conducted research into government and corporate control of biotechnology and biogenetics, and then presented its findings in publications, exhibitions and public performances that sometimes take the form of laboratory demonstrations. For a German performance with the artist Beatriz da Costa, the collective tested food brought by visitors for genetically modified organisms, whose import European Union officials claimed had been banned. 
 A related performance about genetic engineering and organic food was scheduled for the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art in the summer of 2004. But it was canceled after the police, answering a 911 call that Mr. Kurtz made from his home after his wife had a fatal heart attack, confiscated what they deemed were suspicious bacterial substances. 
 The substances were materials for one of the collective's art projects, which are always science projects. It would be easy to think that the government officials prosecuting Mr. Kurtz are simply too obtuse to see the ''art'' in Critical Art Ensemble's work. Yet it is just as likely that they see an art of potentially subversive information and don't like it. 
 Critical Art Ensemble is one of many art collectives operating on the principle that information is power and that it is most effectively made available through a combination of science and aesthetics. Another such group, the Center for Land Use Interpretation, combines history, environmental science and art to reveal the use, or misuse, of public land in the United States, with particular emphasis on what it sees as the excesses of the defense establishment.
 The means that the collective uses are organizationally complex and specialized, beyond what any individual artist could manage. They include environmental research, book publication, exhibitions, an elaborate Web site and guided tours of military sites, chemical-weapon incinerators and abandoned shopping malls. 
 They are far less interested in producing art objects than in providing an experience of the world through a scientifically based aesthetic language of symmetries and disharmonies, tones and shades, concreteness and abstraction. Like the earth artist Robert Smithson, they locate the poetry of dissolution in geology. Unlike him, they don't physically shape the land itself, but shape the way you think about it. Through their art-as-science, or science-as-art, you make the environment, natural and constructed, your own without owning it.
 If this collective model represents an alternative to the object-fixated market economy of art, other models are notable for turning conventional ideas of what an artist is inside out. For the singular artist-as-genius that is the foundation of the entire art industry, including sales exhibitions and criticism, they substitute multiplicity, anonymity, unpredictability.
 Otabenga Jones & Associates, for example, is the identity assumed by four young African-American artists based in Houston (Dawolu Jabari Anderson, Jamal Cyrus, Kenya Evans and Robert A. Pruitt). Ota Benga was a real person, an African pygmy brought to the United States in 1904 and exhibited in a cage at the Bronx Zoo as a kind of living illustration for Darwin's ''Origins of Species.'' Otabenga Jones is an invented character who is both a conceptual artist and a historian with an interest in critically reconstituting the connective tissue between African and African-American cultures. 
 In a recent solo show in Chelsea, his work revisited the Bronx in the 1970's and 80's, when hip-hop and graffiti, art forms with a communal base, were first becoming widely known. At DiverseWork in Houston in 2005 he and the four artists who sometimes use his name installed the equivalent of a sidewalk flea market selling bootleg DVD's and designer knockoffs.
 The installation carries references to other artists: David Hammons, who once sold snowballs on the street in New York, and Georges Adeagbo from the Republic of Benin, who creates marketlike, altarlike outdoor installations. The piece also suggests that as commercial operations, there is no essential difference between the ''art world'' and the ''real world,'' the gallery and the flea market, except for a protective divide. Outdoors, you could get arrested for selling bootleg goods; inside the art world's precincts, you're probably safe.
 Otabenga Jones is four artists acting as one, with their four voices simultaneously blended and distinctive. The collective called the Atlas Group/Walid Raad, also devoted to recovering a social history, is one artist acting as many, specifically as the nonprofit research foundation called the Atlas Group. The subject in this case is the war-torn history of modern Lebanon, considered through installations of materials ranging from videotapes of prisoners being interrogated and tortured to photographic archives assembled by one Dr. Fakhouri. 
 But there is no Dr. Fakhouri. And although some of the Atlas Group material is based on real sources, much of it was produced by Mr. Raad, an artist based in Beirut and New York. Once you know what you're seeing, the work, usually presented in installation form, takes on an absurdist comic edge. At the same time it vividly evokes the almost preposterous horror of war itself, which Mr. Raad experiences both first hand and from a distance, and has evoked as semifictional collective memory. 
 Surely the most complicated of all collectively conceived art personalities in circulation at present is the polymath entity named Reena Spaulings, who is an artist, an art dealer and a character in a novel. The gallery that carries her name on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, is by this point the best known and most conventional aspect of the Spaulings enterprise, though it didn't start out that way. 
 It was initially a storefront studio for the artist Emily Sundblad, who was in the United States from Sweden and was legally required to have a mailing address for residency. She and her partner, John Kelsey, used the space to create what amounted to an art project in the guise of a gallery, Reena Spaulings Fine Art, playing host to performances as well as exhibitions that lasted, in some cases, only a matter of hours. 
 Although artists have often become dealers, the Spaulings story flips the order around. It was only after the gallery became commercially viable that Spaulings had a solo show in a Chelsea gallery, a collective effort that incorporated elements from the Lower East Side space. At the same time, an autobiographical novel titled ''Reena Spaulings'' (Semiotexte, 2004) appeared.
 To further confuse matters -- and confusion of authorship, gender, media and other categorizing labels that the art market relies on to track product is the point of the Spaulings project -- the book is the work of a second collective, Bernadette Corporation, with which Mr. Kelsey is affiliated. In the 1990's it created a fashion line and published a magazine (Made in U.S.A.); last year it established an underground film studio in Berlin. The novel itself was written by dozens of contributors, primarily via the Internet, and in the assembly-line mode once used by Hollywood film studios to produce scripts. 
 Indeed, like many collectives today, Bernadette Corporation exists largely in cyberspace, demonstrating that artists no longer require a place -- a studio, a Chelsea -- to make and show work, or a gallery system to promote it. In addition, just as collectivity de-emphasizes the singularity of the artist, digital media eliminate, or transform, the idea of the personal ''touch'' marketed as creative individuality. (The strenuous call for the revival of painting in the past few years might be seen as, in part, a reaction to the perceived encroachment of digital forms.) 
 Internet-savvy collectives like this one -- and some collectives exist exclusively on the Web -- take a holistic view of art as a long-term social process, rather than a short-term formal event. Just as important, they want to get their work out, free, to as wide an audience as possible, and the Internet lets them do so.
 Unsurprisingly, both Bernadette Coorporation and Reena Spaulings were created by artists well versed in anticapitalist and anticorporate politics. Nor is it surprising that the gallery itself, after its free-form early days, became a going commercial concern, in the process having its edge blunted through its capitulation to the system it supposedly bucked. The gallery, in fact, has recently received critical reprimands around matters of self-promotion. So where will its founders take their project now?
 Finally, it's important to acknowledge that making art collectively is by no means an automatic guarantee of radicalism, as the example of the much-touted Wrong Gallery proves. 
 A collaboration of three highly visible art world movers -- Ali Subotnick, Massimiliano Gioni and the artist Maurizio Cattelan -- it's a sort of free-floating curatorial project with no permanent address. For awhile it occupied a niche behind a locked glass door on a Chelsea street where it gave short-run shows to chic young artists. In conjunction with the biennial, it has organized a group show at the Whitney.
 The Wrong Gallery's Whitney show is on a bad-boyish theme that Andy Warhol more or less finessed with his ''Most Wanted Men'' paintings 40 years ago. And this collective itself feels like tired old news. It's strictly an insider operation, limited to mildly tweaking the conventions and protocols of the art world while supporting business-as-usual. No wonder the industry thinks it's just the cleverest thing and gives it full approval. Like the art world in its present form, the Wrong Gallery is prominent and powerful, and trifling.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Installations, top left, by Josh Smith
top right, Claire Fontaine
and above left, Otabenga Jones & Associates
above right, the Center for Land Use Interpretation viewing area in Nevada
and, right, a film still by Critical Art Ensemble. (pg. 1)
Top left, posters for the nonexistent film ''United We Stand'' by 0100101110101101.org
top right, a Josh Smith installation at Reena Spaulings
left, the Reena Spaulings storefront, from top, before renovation, with an image from an Ei Arakawa performance and for Josh Smith's show. (Photo by 0100101110101101.org)
(Photos courtesy of Reena Spaulings Fine Art)
 An installation from an Otabenga Jones & Associates installation at Clementine Gallery. (Photo by Clementine Gallery, New York)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PAINTING (90%); FILM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); FILM GENRES (66%); DRAMA FILMS (66%); IRAQ WAR (61%) Art

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Holland Cotter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



90 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: The Search for Illegal Immigrants Stops at the Workplace 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
IT may seem that the United States government has declared all-out war against illegal immigration. During the last decade, the budget dedicated to enforcement of immigration laws has grown by leaps and bounds. The Border Patrol has about three times as many agents as it did in the early 1990's, and the southern border has been laced with high-tech surveillance gadgetry.
 Yet a closer look reveals a very different portrait of immigration policy. It seems designed for failure. Most experts agree that a vast majority of illegal immigrants who make it across the border every year are seeking work. But the workplace is the one spot that is virtually unpoliced. 
''What we've done is put a lot of people on the line of scrimmage, but when you do that the other side can just lob a little pass and score a touchdown,'' said Richard M. Stana, director of homeland security and justice issues at the Government Accountability Office. ''Trying to get a better balance between border enforcement and interior enforcement would go a long way.''
 In a strategy document in 1999, the Immigration and Naturalization Service put monitoring the workplace last among its five enforcement priorities. Today, the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which has replaced the I.N.S. and is a branch of the Department of Homeland Security, devotes about 4 percent of its personnel to enforcement in the workplace, down from 9 percent in 1999. 
 Demographers estimate that six million to seven million illegal immigrants are working in the United States; that is some 5 percent of the nation's work force. Yet in 2004, the latest year for which there is data, the immigration authorities issued penalty notices to only three companies.
 The current approach hasn't halted illegal immigration: some 400,000 to 500,000 illegal immigrants enter the United States every year, almost double the rate of the 1980's, before the buildup in border enforcement. 
 Regardless of whether the United States ought to have more or less immigration, the nation's policy must be flawed when almost half of all immigrants come in illegally. Indeed, some experts argue that the basic reason illegal immigration hasn't stopped is that the country doesn't want it to. Gordon H. Hanson, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, said the ineffective approach was the product of a collection of interests. 
 ''Employers feel very strongly about maintaining access to immigrant workers, and exert political pressure to prevent enforcement from being effective,'' Professor Hanson said. ''While there are lots of groups concerned about immigration on the other side'' of the argument, ''it's not like their livelihood depends on this.''
 Employers have long been the main driver of immigration policy, Professor Hanson said. Not surprisingly, they tend to dislike the provision in current immigration law for penalties against employers. 
 That may explain why fines for hiring illegal immigrants can be as low as $275 a worker, and immigration officials acknowledge that businesses often negotiate fines downward. And why, after the I.N.S. raided onion fields in Georgia during the 1998 harvest, a senator and four members of the House of Representatives from the state sharply criticized the agency for hurting Georgia farmers. 
 After the terrorist attacks of 2001, the government limited immigration enforcement in the workplace to what it deemed ''critical infrastructure'' -- places like nuclear power plants and airports -- that could be vulnerable to terrorism. Even in the late 1990's when the economy was booming and labor markets were tight, the I.N.S. virtually stopped looking for illegal immigrants in the workplace. 
 Employers might not favor a guest worker program to allow immigrants to work here legally, if such a program included harsher policing of the workplace. ''A guest worker program would offer secure legal access to immigrant labor, but at the risk that this labor would come in smaller quantities or with more strings attached,'' Professor Hanson said.
 The immigration law of 1986 contained a basic flaw. Congress barred employers from hiring illegal immigrants, but it didn't provide a reliable way for employers to check an immigrant's status. 
 For less than $50, immigrants can buy a set of fake documents -- usually a Social Security card and green card, indicating permanent residency -- to get a job. The fake ID's provide employers with crucial protection in the eyes of the law: companies can plausibly deny that they knew they were hiring people without legal permission to work. 
 The upshot is that millions of illegal immigrants work on the books, with the odd side effect that the Social Security Administration receives millions of Form W2 wage reports from employers that bear random Social Security numbers. 
 In 1996 the inspector general of the Justice Department warned that fraudulent documents were allowing unscrupulous employers to avoid accountability for hiring illegal immigrants. If the government decided to halt, or at least substantially dent, the flow of these immigrants into the work force, it would find that it probably already has the tools. 
 Since 1997, immigration authorities and the Social Security Administration have been running a voluntary pilot program that allows employers to check worker documentation on the spot -- matching documents against government databases over the Internet.
 This system could end employers' deniability, because they could determine quickly whether a given employee was authorized to work in the United States. That's probably why so few companies have signed up: only about 2,300 of the more than six million employers across the country.
 EVEN if such a system became mandatory, people might continue to hire illegal immigrants as nannies and housekeepers, and to pay them in cash. Small businesses operating under the radar might also hire them off the books.
 Yet many illegal immigrants work on the books. For employers, it is one thing to fail to question the dubious provenance of Social Security cards. It is quite another to overtly break the law. 
 Ramping up the pilot program into a mandatory national one would be costly. The Department of Homeland Security and the Social Security Administration would have to make their databases compatible. Glitches -- such as different spellings for the same name -- would have to be ironed out. 
 But these difficulties do not seem insurmountable, especially when set against the Department of Homeland Security's enormous and utterly ineffective effort to stop illegal immigration at the border. 
 So why hasn't workplace enforcement increased? ''It's an open question,'' said Mr. Stana of the G.A.O. ''Have we turned a blind eye to this in the interest of keeping the economy humming?''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Less Pain for Employers''According to some estimates, the number of illegal immigrants entering the United States has generally risen since 1992. Yet administrative actions against businesses who employ them have declined.Graph tracks the folllowing from 1992-2004:AVERAGE ANNUAL IMMIGRATION (illegal [estimated] and legal)(Source by Pew Hispanic Center)Graph tracks the folllowing from 1992-2004:WARNINGS OF IMPENDING FINES ISSUED TO EMPLOYERS OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS(Sources by I.N.S., Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Gov't. Accountability Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (71%); LABOR FORCE (69%) Labor; Foreign Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees; Labor

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (73%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter; Gordon (Prof) Hanson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



91 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Beware of Slam-Dunks in the Bond Market

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to investing in bonds, the obvious answer isn't always the right one.
 Now that the so-called yield curve is inverted, an obvious strategy would be to rush to cash. The yield curve refers to the spectrum of interest rates paid by bonds of varying maturities. Normally, longer-term bonds pay out higher yields than short-term securities because they require investors to wait longer before redemption.
But in recent weeks, the yield curve for Treasury securities has partially inverted, meaning that short-term government debt is now rewarding investors with fatter yields than long-term bonds. Last week, for example, two-year Treasury notes paid out 4.75 percent while the 10-year version yielded only 4.68 percent. Three-month Treasury bills, a proxy for cash, were paying 4.60 percent, slightly below the 4.66 percent yield on 30-year bonds. 
 Noting various precedents, some people see the inverted curve as a sign of a pending recession. Others disagree, arguing that there are technical explanations for why long-term bonds are yielding less than short-term ones -- that foreign investors, for example, amid a global savings glut, are parking more money in long-term Treasury bonds, driving down their yields. 
 Either way, the market's current message is clear: As Jane L. Caron, chief economic strategist at Dwight Asset Management in Burlington, Vt., puts it, ''If you're seeking yield, you're going to find it at the short end of the curve.'' 
 Many bank certificates of deposit, for instance, are paying more -- with no risk of principal losses -- than 30-year Treasury bonds. But while it may seem a slam-dunk to shift a good percentage of your bond holdings to cash, don't overlook the risks. 
 For starters, history shows that ''inversions don't necessarily last that long,'' said Marilyn Cohen, president and chief executive of Envision Capital Management in Los Angeles. 
 Anthony Chan, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Private Client Services, recently studied periods when two-year Treasuries have paid out more than 10-year ones. Since 1978, this has happened eight times, with an average duration of 7.5 months. To be sure, the last inversion, which began in early 2000, continued for nearly a year. But the three previous ones, between 1989 and 1998, lasted no more than two months each.
 If this inversion is similarly short, bolting to cash may not be a great idea. A few months from now, those cash instruments could be paying considerably less than short- or intermediate-term bond investments.
 And what if the yield curve is indeed foreshadowing an economic slowdown? If it is, there is a distinct possibility that interest rates will start to fall.
 Recent history shows that yield curves don't typically stop inverting because long-term bonds begin to pay out more. Rather, inverted curves come to an end because short-term rates fall much faster than long-term ones, often as the economy teeters on recession.
 Mr. Chan's research shows that the yield on 10-year Treasuries falls 0.66 percentage points, on average, in the six months after an inversion cycle, while the yield on two-year Treasuries declines almost twice as much: 1.21 percentage points. This means that there are two risks in converting much of your bond portfolio to cash.
 First is ''reinvestment risk,'' says George Strickland, managing director of Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, N.M. This is the risk that when your short-term securities, like bank C.D.'s, come due, you will have to reinvest the money at even lower rates.
 And if long-term bond yields start to fall, the value of older securities held in fixed-income portfolios is likely to rise. So there is also the risk that you will miss opportunities in longer-term bond funds.
 Because of that risk, Stephen B. Ward, chief investment officer for the Schwab Funds, says that while cash yields ''can be a little seductive, if you have an asset allocation plan that calls for a certain amount in bonds, you should probably still stick to it.''
 This doesn't mean that you shouldn't park some new money in cash. But make sure you don't stray too far from your overall asset allocation, Mr. Ward says.
 And if you are thinking of going to shorter-term securities, don't consider just money market funds and C.D.'s.
 Yes, money market funds stand to benefit if the Federal Reserve keeps raising short-term rates this year. Depending on whom you ask, one to three more increases are expected in the next several months.
 When the Fed halts its moves, of course, money fund yields will plateau. And if the economy hits a wall and the Fed begins to lower rates, cash yields will fall. On the other hand, bond funds could benefit in an environment of flat or falling rates. 
 This is why ultrashort bond funds may be a worthwhile alternative. While these funds may expose you to some principal loss if the Fed keeps raising rates, that risk would be minor compared with that of being in longer-term bond funds. The ultrashort funds have a duration -- a maturity-related measure of price sensitivity to changes in interest rates -- of less than a year.
 In 2005, ultrashort funds had a total return of 2.49 percent, on average, despite eight Fed rate increases, according to Morningstar. That was far better than the 1.44 percent for short-term bond funds -- with an average duration of two years -- and nearly as much as the 2.59 percent for money market funds. 
 WHICHEVER short-term investment you choose, Ms. Cohen at Envision suggests a barbell-like strategy. ''Maybe for every new dollar you put in the short end, you can put 50 cents into longer-term maturities,'' she said.
 Intermediate or long-term bonds won't get you any extra yield now. But having some money in longer-maturity Treasury funds or high-quality corporate bond funds may better position your portfolio if this inversion ends sooner rather than later. 
 Mr. Strickland says bond investors need to understand all types of risks associated with an inverted curve. He noted that in the early 1980's, a time of high inflation, cash accounts were paying around 18 percent while long-term Treasury bonds yielded around 15 percent. At the time, conventional wisdom said the choice was easy: go with the risk-free cash. 
 ''The greedy wanted the 18 percent,'' Mr. Strickland said. But he added that some investors who bought 30-year bonds back then were still earning 15 percent a year today because they were able to lock in those rates.
 Today, of course, with long-term bonds yielding less than 5 percent, the picture isn't as clear. But it is a reminder that in the bond market, the simple answer today isn't always the best one for the long term.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''An Inverted Curve''Shorter-term Treasury securities, such as 6-month bills, now have a higher yield than 30-year bonds.Graph tracks yields for selected treasury securities from Friday and one year ago. (Maturity is tracked from 3-6 months and 2-30 years)(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); YIELD CURVE (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); RECESSION (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%) 

COMPANY: DWIGHT ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (54%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (54%) VERMONT, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (77%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



92 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; TALKING MONEY -- WITH SUZE ORMAN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: Cleaning Up Messes, Friend to Friend

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
SUZE ORMAN often counsels her television audience -- which she treats like a large and dysfunctional family -- to pay down debt and build a diversified investment portfolio. 
 ''Sweetheart,'' she says: hold some cash and bonds, sure, but also stash away lots of domestic and foreign stocks, and, for heaven's sake, burn those credit cards.
By preaching a gospel of personal financial freedom, Ms. Orman, 55, has built a fortune that she estimates at $25 million. But does she follow her own advice? 
 Well, not always. 
 She certainly has avoided debt. But she gave up on portfolio diversification long ago. About 75 percent of her net worth is held in just one asset class: zero-coupon municipal bonds. They're not exciting and they have no prospect for growth, but they now pay a steady interest of roughly 4.5 percent a year. 
 Only a tiny portion of her wealth -- about 4 percent, or $1 million -- is held in stock, currently including Motorola, Pfizer and Vasogen, as well as shares in four Third Avenue mutual funds. The remainder, about $5 million, is in real estate, including apartments in Manhattan and Florida and a house in South Africa, all free and clear of mortgages.
 ''So what's up, girlfriend?,'' as Ms. Orman likes to say to her callers on television, many of whom are women.
 Well, Ms. Orman's advice is largely for people who are trying to dig themselves out of a deep economic ditch -- caused by credit card debt, mortgage debt or greedy boyfriends -- and who want to build a future. 
 Ms. Orman, on the other hand, has already made it. During an interview in her sparsely decorated 1,200-square-foot apartment in Manhattan, with its minimalist African art and sleek sofas and chairs, she said that in her childhood, as her father's business failed, her family fell from the middle to the lower-middle class. Now she wants to experience as little financial stress as possible. For her, the stock market is major stress. 
 Ms. Orman, who has never married, says financial success enables her to be outspoken. ''What allows me to be as cocky as I am,'' she said, ''is the money I have today.'' 
 But she does not want to take major financial risks, she said. ''Three or four years ago, I knew that with the income from my bonds, I could have $1 million to $1.5 million tax free, and I thought O.K.,'' said Ms. Orman with the animated conviction that is the hallmark of her television persona. ''I just wanted to know that when nobody wanted to buy my books, when nobody wanted to listen to me and everyone said bye-bye, that personally it did not matter.'' 
 These days, Ms. Orman says, she earns $3 million to $5 million annually, so that she does not need investment income. 
 Money rolls in from best-selling books, investment kits and other products that she promotes on television and over the Internet. She has made five specials for PBS, won a daytime Emmy, has a program called ''Financial Freedom Hour'' on the QVC network and an advice show on CNBC. She writes regularly for O, Oprah Winfrey's magazine, and has a twice-a-month column on Yahoo's personal finance site.
 Until six years ago, Ms. Orman's money was almost exclusively in stocks, but by the time the Internet bubble burst in 2000, she said, she had already sold a large portion of her holdings and had begun putting her money into bonds. She accepts that they don't provide a hedge against inflation. ''There is another element beyond inflation risk, and that is called terrorism,'' she said. ''I don't like the uncertainty of what terrorism could do.'' 
 Ms. Orman said she has also been frightened by the Martha Stewart case. Ms. Stewart was convicted and incarcerated on a charge of lying to investigators about a stock sale. 
 ''Maybe this is not the right attitude, but I think what happened to her was incredibly unfair,'' Ms. Orman said. ''I have this belief that for whatever reason, the press treats women differently than they do men.'' She added: ''You never know when you can do something very innocently that backfires.''
 Ms. Orman has already had some criticism from the press and the academic world. Detractors accused her of exaggerating some accomplishments and engaging in practices that may constitute conflicts of interest. In 2002, she briefly sold long-term care policies on QVC that were underwritten by a unit of General Electric, the parent company of CNBC. Two years ago, she was widely criticized for doing a commercial for General Motors, endorsing the company's ''lock 'n' roll'' car financing plan. 
 Ms. Orman dropped the QVC campaign because of the criticism, although she said she strongly believed in the product. The G.M. commercial ran its course of less than a month. Today she cannot be accused of such conflicts, she says -- adding that this is a source of comfort. Recently she got an e-mail message from Amy Feller, the executive producer of ''The Suze Orman Show'' on CNBC. ''Do you own any of the mutual funds you talked about on the show?,'' Ms. Feller asked.
 ''I didn't,'' Ms. Orman said, ''so I didn't have to disclaim anything.''
 Several people who know Ms. Orman well say that her move to safer investments was partly motivated by childhood memories of her family's downward financial spiral.
 ''She saw what happened to her father, and she wants to play it conservatively,'' said Preston Cranford, who was Ms. Orman's boss in 1985 when she was a broker at Prudential Bache in Orinda, Calif.
 Ms. Orman grew up on the South Side of Chicago. Her father had a store where he killed, plucked and sold chickens. And Ms. Orman, along with two older brothers, helped out. 
 She remembers riding to school in his truck. ''He would put his foot on the brake and the blood of the dead chickens would slosh forward and he would tell me to pick up my feet,'' she said. ''He had this smell about him because he worked with the chickens. And I would have to jump down from this truck and go to school.''
 Mr. Orman did well enough until the advent of supermarkets eroded his business in 1959 or so, Ms. Orman said. ''My dad was moving down and down and down,'' she said. ''Even when I was young, my friends had tons more than we did. It made me feel left out.'' 
 As a result of these setbacks, her mother, Ann, went to work as a secretary but didn't like to acknowledge the problems confronting her family, Ms. Orman recalled. 
 Ms. Orman attended the University of Illinois, graduating with a degree in social work. ''I originally wanted to be a brain surgeon,'' she said, ''but a counselor totally discouraged me.'' 
 After college, she became a waitress at a coffee shop in Berkeley, Calif. ''I never thought I could be more than that,'' she said. ''I never thought I could be anything.''
 She says her parents gave her little direction. They found it hard to manage their own lives, she said. But during seven years as a waitress, Ms. Orman developed loyal supporters who were willing to back her effort to start her own business. 
 One regular customer, Frank Hasbrook, put up $2,000 and persuaded others to contribute until, she says, she had $50,000. Mr. Hasbrook's widow, Celia, recalled in a recent interview that ''my husband had a lot of faith in her.'' 
 Her supporters advised Ms. Orman to invest the money at a nearby Merrill Lynch office, and she ended up having big losses. But then she landed a job with Merrill in Oakland, Calif., where, after passing an exam, she became a stockbroker. 
 ''When she started at Merrill, she went after thosepeople: waitresses, truck drivers and other people who are not normally brokerage clients,'' recalled Clifford Citrano, a former colleague in that office. ''That was what she built her business on.'' 
 She left Merrill in 1983 after getting an offer from Prudential Bache, and in 1987 she started her own financial advisory firm in Emeryville, Calif., near Oakland. 
 She had her own business setbacks during this period, and recalls maxing out her credit cards and going deeply into debt. ''I was so embarrassed,'' she said. ''I didn't want anybody to know, because if I was so great, how could I let this happen.'' 
 HER approach to investing increasingly meshed the psychological and the financial, concluding that drowning in debt just to show off to others, as she had done, was not wise. ''Sweetheart,'' she recently told a young caller who had saved $1,600 toward buying a $60,000 car, ''are you going to buy that just to drive down the street and show off to a bunch of jerks?''
 In 1994, to attract customers, she wrote her first book: ''You've Earned It. Don't Lose It.'' She took it to Esther Margolis, an agent who was looking for books aimed at older audiences.
 ''Suze never told me the book had already been turned down by 30 publishers,'' Ms. Margolis recalled. ''I changed the title, which was originally 'So You've Retired, Now What?' '' It was a hit, and Ms. Orman was on her way to becoming a brand. 
 Has financial success changed her lifestyle? Her indulgences include Armani clothes and spending about $300,000 a year to fly on private jets, she said. ''When I am doing that, I say to myself: 'I can't believe it.' '' She is also able to give away money. Among a variety of gifts was $125,000 to Books for a Better Life, an awards program for self-improvement books that raises funds for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. 
 In Mr. Citrano's view, her affluence has not undermined her connection to her market. ''Suze is one of the few people who talks to the Everyman out there,'' Mr. Citrano said. ''She talks to the people that Wall Street really is not interested in and gives them good basic information.''
 What they find is a woman who talks about their fears and who admonishes them to take charge -- in small, clear, often simplistic ways. 
 During a recent CNBC segment focused on divorce, Ms. Orman cut in before her guest, a lawyer, could respond to a caller. ''Remember, they don't have much money and they are afraid,'' Ms. Orman said.
 She proceeded to display her own high-energy style, swinging from sympathy to what she calls ''really firm direction,'' insisting that people take action -- right now -- to change their lives. One woman asked for advice about her troubled marriage. ''Girlfriend, you better file for divorce today,'' Ms. Orman said. ''You got that?''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the personal finances of Suze Orman, the author and television host, misstated the occupation of Esther Margolis, to whom Ms. Orman took her first book. Ms. Margolis is the president and publisher of Newmarket Press, which published the book; she is not a book agent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Suze Orman at home, with the Emmy Award she won in 2004 for a PBS special, ''The Laws of Money, the Lessons of Life.'' (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%) Personal Finances; Biographical Information; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); PFIZER INC (55%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (55%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%)

PERSON: Suze Orman; Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



93 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: The Light in the Lincoln Center Plaza

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
OPERA is the granddaddy of the Broadway musical, but the family has become somewhat estranged over the years.
 These days, both generations are looking a little peaked, and so Peter Gelb, the new general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, aims to effect a rapprochement.
 The most notable aspect of his wide-ranging game plan for reconnecting the Met to the larger culture accentuates the importance of opera as an essentially theatrical art, not just classical music in fancy dress. Mr. Gelb has tapped a handful of major theater directors to make their Met debuts, and has inaugurated an alliance with the Met's neighbor, Lincoln Center Theater, to commission a host of works to be developed jointly and produced at the Met or next door. 
 Radical as Mr. Gelb's initiatives might seem to Met-goers who prefer tradition to innovation and opera-as-vocal-display to opera-as-musical-drama, Mr. Gelb's bold new vision is in fact a version of a bolder old one, as he acknowledges. Mr. Gelb made reference, in the news conference announcing his plans and in a separate interview, to Rudolf Bing, the Met's legendary general manager from 1950 to 1972. His ambition to focus resources on creating wholly viable theatrical productions echoes one of Sir Rudolf's top priorities when he took over as general manager at the old Met.
 Pre-Bing, opera at the Met was an entrenched society event and a respectable musical one, but something of a washout as a dramatic art. Mostly, the world's top singers performed in front of flats, with little rehearsal, and were largely left to their own devices. Many of them preferred it that way, and bridled when Sir Rudolf expected them to hang around for extensive rehearsals. 
 In his first seasons Sir Rudolf raised the standard of production, drawing on Broadway talent with an eye toward improving the theatrical effectiveness of opera at the Met. A new production of ''Die Fledermaus,'' in English, was expressly programmed during his first season for this purpose, and the Broadway figure Garson Kanin was hired to direct it. Alfred Lunt's production of ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' also sung in English, was a critical and box office smash that helped re-establish the fortunes of that Mozart masterpiece in the United States. Other stage directors Sir Rudolf introduced to the Met included Tyrone Guthrie and Peter Brook.
 If one eye was on art, the other was on the box office. In his autobiography, ''5,000 Nights at the Opera,'' Sir Rudolf wrote that with ''Fledermaus'' he was ''hoping to draw to the Metropolitan a new audience that usually went to the theaters a few blocks away rather than to the opera house.'' Today the Met finds itself with plenty of empty seats. If musical-theater devotees ill served by Broadway in recent years can be enticed to test the Met's wares by Mr. Gelb's theatrical exploring, so much the better.
 The specter of Regietheater establishing a beachhead on the Met stage could send certain first-nighters into apoplexy. (The German term translates as ''directors' theater'' if you're welcoming, ''Eurotrash'' if you're hostile.) But the debutants Mr. Gelb is bringing in from the theater world are not exactly flame-throwing German rebels.
 Jack O'Brien, whose Broadway expertise ranges from Shakespeare to ''Hairspray,'' will stage Puccini's ''Trittico.'' Bartlett Sher, who directed Adam Guettel's ''Light in the Piazza,'' tries his hand at Rossini's frothy ''Barbiere di Siviglia.'' Mary Zimmerman, as skilled at storytelling as she is at trimming her productions in elegant detail, has been tapped to direct Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' and Rossini's ''Armida.'' Matthew Bourne and Richard Eyre will collaborate on a new ''Carmen.''
 Only the notion of Robert Lepage, the brainy French-Canadian darling of the international festival circuit, getting his hands on Wagner's mighty ''Ring'' has the potential to cause serious consternation. Goodbye, spears and breastplates and viking helmets! Hello, thoughtful ruminations on how ''global warming and climate change make us more conscious than ever of the fragility of this lonely planet.'' Or so Mr. Lepage wrote in a brief note on his ''Ring'' included among the press materials describing Mr. Gelb's plans.
 But Mr. Lepage is precisely the kind of thoughtful, meticulous director who Wagner might wholly approve of. Wagner proselytized for opera as an art in which all the elements -- music, libretto, scenic design, staging -- contributed to the whole, and Mr. Lepage's productions are elaborately conceived and choreographed down to the last shaft of light. I'd also argue that literal-minded productions of the ''Ring,'' like the Met's current version, do a disservice to Wagner: it can be hard to hear the majesty of the music through the crust of visual cliches that have accrued like barnacles to this celebrated artwork during its century-plus on the stage.
 It's not only Wagner operas that sometimes seem to slide onto the Met stage with a whiff of mothballs. As a regular Met-goer for the last several years, I can certainly testify that there is ample room for improvement on the dramatic front. Mr. Gelb cited Jonathan Miller's direction of ''Pelleas et Melisande'' and ''Katya Kabanova'' as being ideal for their intelligent integration of musical and dramatic values. The company has plenty of others in its repertory: Robert Carsen's ''Eugene Onegin,'' which returns next season, or Jurgen Flimm's splashily updated ''Salome,'' which seemed an ideal vehicle for the fabulous luridities of that Richard Strauss opera. Robert Wilson's minimalist production of ''Lohengrin,'' predictably booed by first-night fanatics, enthralled me when I caught it the next season, with Karita Mattila. 
 But the Met's repertory is also rich in overstuffed, clunky or ill-conceived productions. Critics have been bemoaning Franco Zeffirelli's interior-decorating approach to opera staging for years, but he still owns a big handful of the Met's war horses. Nor is Mr. Zeffirelli the only director unable to resist the temptation to fill the huge Met stage with pointless embroidery. Andrei Serban's recent productions of ''Faust'' and ''Benvenuto Cellini'' were confused traffic jams of conflicting ideas. 
 There's no guarantee that hiring theater directors will guarantee a good night at the opera house. If it did, Broadway wouldn't be the dicey proposition it too often is. But Mr. Gelb's decision to add popular theater directors to the roster suggests he is determined to refashion opera at the Met as an enterprise capable of broadening its appeal to reach bigger audiences.
 The Lincoln Center Theater alliance can also be seen as a populist move, and a riskier one. As has been reported, the Met and Lincoln Center Theater have commissioned works from the musical-theater composers Michael John LaChiusa, Jeanine Tesori and Mr. Guettel, in addition to some well-known classical composers. 
 There have been numerous instances of boundary-blurring over the decades, and debates are revived periodically over defining the differences between opera and musical theater. Sure, Marc Blitzstein's ''Regina'' opened on Broadway, but has moved firmly into the opera repertory. And several of Stephen Sondheim's shows have followed the same route. But the Met has avoided trafficking in crossover territory (the Gershwins' ''Porgy and Bess'' being the notable exception), and Mr. Gelb says that he isn't planning to change that, at least when it comes to existing repertory. Mr. Sondheim's most operatic work, ''Sweeney Todd,'' has been seen at such top-tier houses as Lyric Opera of Chicago and the Royal Opera in London , but the demon barber won't be terrorizing Met audiences any time soon.
 If Sondheim can't work at the Met, it's not clear that Mr. LaChiusa or Ms. Tesori, composers whose work has divided critics and not found spectacular favor with theater audiences, will be able to either. And in any case, the new program implicitly acknowledges that the commissions are a gamble, at least for the Met; it has been cannily structured to accommodate a wide range of outcomes. It will give some of these theater composers a chance to dream on a grander scale than the usual realities of theater economics permit. But it also allows for the possibility that some -- or all -- will not be able to compose a work of musical theater with enough breadth and substance to hold the Met stage, or the attention of its audiences.
 In which case, back to Broadway, kids!
 That is, if Broadway will have you. The new project also demonstrates that the commercial theater no longer knows what to do with musical-theater composers of serious ambition, and indeed that nonprofit companies like Lincoln Center Theater are finding it hard to single-handedly support the work of emerging composers. 
 The popularity of Mr. Guettel's ''Light in the Piazza'' (produced by Lincoln Center Theater) has been a heartening surprise, suggesting that audiences are indeed hungry for music-theater works that are not just marketing nostalgia or satire or camp. But commercial producers have all but abandoned the search for ambitious new musical voices, and the amount of money required to encourage their development is more than most nonprofit theaters can sustain from year to year.
 It leaves us to wonder what would befall a new Stephen Sondheim if he (or she) were to arrive today, not a half-century ago, when the Broadway theater was more robust. An innovative project like the Met-Lincoln Center Theater alliance might be his last, his best, his only hope.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top left, the director Robert Lepage, the musical-theater composer Jeanine Tesori, the director Jack O'Brien, the director and choreographer Matthew Bourne, the director Bartlett Sher, and the composer and lyricist Adam Guettel. (Photo by Barbara Alper)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
(Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Ed Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%) Opera; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Opera; Lincoln Center Theater

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Peter Gelb

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



94 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: A Doctor in the House? Yes, and He Owns It, Too

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
ABOUT four years ago, Dr. Robert Vogt-Lowell started putting money into what he now considers to be his best investment yet: medical offices for his pediatric cardiology practice.
 He and his wife, Arlene, first bought a 2,200-square-foot office condominium in the Miami suburb of Kendall. Two years later, they bought a 1,500-square-foot unit nearby, in Miami Lakes. And they would like to buy space eventually in Pembroke Pines, where he also sees patients.
''If I decided to sell my practice, I could include the offices or sell them separately, or I could rent them out for income,'' said Dr. Vogt-Lowell, 47, who has watched the prices of similar properties rise steadily (unlike the value of his stock portfolio). ''I needed a place to practice, and I got a great investment. It's been the best of both worlds.'' 
 More and more health care professionals are making such investments, snapping up everything from office condos to shares in medical buildings and complexes. But they are hardly the only ones buying. In the last 18 months or so, large investors like pension funds, real estate investment trusts and private companies have been expanding their holdings in medical office buildings. 
 ''Three years ago, it was probably not as hot a niche as it is today,'' said Dale Sperling, chief executive of Unico Properties of Seattle, which owns and operates six million square feet of office space on the West Coast. The company started investing in medical office buildings in earnest more than a year ago by buying part of a Tacoma, Wash., medical campus for $10.8 million. 
 But as Mr. Sperling and other investors have found, the medical market is not necessarily an easy niche to break into. For one thing, it is not cheap. The average price per square foot is $248, up from $142 in 2002, according to Real Capital Analytics, a research firm, and as a result the initial yields -- also known as capitalization rates -- have dropped to around 7 percent from more than 9 percent just three years ago.
 Finding the right properties -- those on or close to hospital campuses are generally the most desirable -- can be difficult. Purchases often require extensive research, because medical offices need special plumbing, electrical wiring and ventilation for their expensive equipment. And regulatory changes -- like those related to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements -- could add layers of complexity that affect how buildings operate financially. 
 Still, the big players remain confident that the medical office building sector will continue to grow. Graying baby boomers are requiring more health care, and demand has climbed for outpatient facilities, especially as both insurers and government agencies push doctors to perform lower-risk procedures outside hospital settings. 
 Hospitals looking for revenue to invest in new technology, meanwhile, have been selling more of their real estate or forming ventures to operate surgery centers and outpatient services within existing facilities or at satellite sites.
 Laws intended to prevent doctors from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to health providers in which they have a financial interest have provided another reason for hospitals to remove themselves from the real estate business. (Under the so-called Stark laws, hospitals must lease space at fair market rates.) 
 For investors, one of the biggest draws of medical buildings is a stable tenant base. Doctors tend to have longer leases than occupants of traditional office buildings -- eight years on average, versus three to five -- and have renewal rates of 90 percent or higher, according to building owners. Many sign ''triple net'' leases, in which they agree to pay operating expenses like property taxes and insurance premiums. 
 ''When doctors move into one of our buildings, they just stay there for their whole practice lives,'' said Robert A. Rosenthal, president of Pacific Medical Buildings in San Diego, noting that they typically spend more money on finishes like high-end carpeting and wood cabinets. ''Although doctors are demanding, they're pretty good tenants. They pay rent on time, have good credit ratings and a low rate of business failures.'' 
 Doctors generally prefer to stay put in order to retain patients, and many building owners will offer them equity interests as an added incentive to stick around. ''Physicians want to become partners,'' said Murray Wolf, publisher of the newsletter Healthcare Real Estate Insights, who, like many others, has held seminars about health care real estate. ''Like the rest of us, they've watched the stock market plodding along and decided to invest in real estate.'' 
 Mr. Rosenthal, who has been involved in medical real estate for 35 years, says his tenants are choosing larger equity stakes these days. In the last 8 to 10 years, he said, ''the amount of participation has been very low, usually, on average, one to two tenants in each building, and they would come in for $50,000 to $100,000, but lately we've gotten much more interest and much larger investments.''
 ''Now they're in the $500,000 range,'' he added.
 Outside investors can also acquire stakes in medical office buildings; the minimum investments generally range from $50,000 to $250,000. ''In a typical project, one-third of the equity is provided by principals of the company and two-thirds from our private investors,'' Mr. Rosenthal said.
 He says the biggest problem is accommodating all his investors. ''We have a lot more money chasing fewer projects,'' he said. 
 Mr. Sperling says his strategy is to approach the hospitals and health care systems and persuade them to sell property or take in a partner. Unico closed five such deals last year. ''Our success rate is high,'' he said. ''About a third who we sit down with agree to transact a deal.''
 Investors in medical office buildings share in the cash flow generated from rents, but they also stand to profit handsomely when the building, which often appreciates in value over the years, is eventually sold or its mortgage refinanced and built-up equity returned to those holding stakes.
 Either way, though, investors should not expect quick profits. ''Our properties are long term,'' said Jeffrey J. Kanne, a managing director of the National Electrical Benefit Fund, a pension fund based in Rockville, Md. ''We are going to be in the medical building business because of the demographics.''
 Some individual investors with deep pockets are opting to buy their own buildings or form small partnerships, while others are buying, and often renting out, office condos. Those with less to spend, or perhaps less desire to be landlords, can invest in real estate investment trusts -- companies with portfolios of commercial property that disburse most of their profits as dividends.
 Fourteen publicly traded REIT's specialize in health care real estate. Among them are Health Care Property Investors, Ventas and Cogdell Spencer, which just two weeks ago paid nearly $40 million for a 171,500-square-foot building and parking deck on the campus of Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis. The overall sector is up 6 percent so far this year, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. There are also unlisted health care REIT's like CNL Retirement Properties.
 Stephen M. Coyle, the chief investment strategist for Citigroup Property Investors, is generally bullish on the sector. ''Medical spending is a huge part of our national economy,'' he said, though he cautions that location is a key to success. ''More than anything else they need to be near a good hospital.'' 
 Kenneth A. Weston, a real estate consultant and developer whose firm, Kenneth Weston & Associates, specializes in medical office condos in South Florida, says the high prices in many large metropolitan areas have pushed investors to look in secondary or tertiary markets. (''People there get sick, too,'' he said.)
 The Miami market, he said, ''is so hot that some people are buying buildings with capitalization rates as low as 1 or 2 percent, which is financial suicide,'' he said. ''They're buying with the idea of being able to create a condo complex out of it.''
 Right now, around $375,000 to $675,000 buys a 1,500-square-foot office condo in the Miami area, he said, which is almost double the average price of just three years ago. 
 There is no shortage of takers, though, at least for his condo buildings. ''When I do my medical projects, 50 percent are presold to users before we do the projects,'' he said. 
 DR. VOGT-LOWELL, the pediatric cardiologist from Miami, says he and his wife were lucky to be able to buy their two properties, both near hospitals, before prices really escalated. He said they paid $525,000 in 2002 for the Kendall office, which is in a three-building complex and includes four examination rooms and a large reception area. The Miami Lakes condo, which is in a three-story building and has four smaller examination rooms, cost $295,000 in 2004. 
 ''I was told that today we could get $800,000,'' he said of the Kendall unit.
 The rising value is nice, but the best part, says Dr. Vogt-Lowell, who had leased for 12 years, is not having to rent anymore. At least not from a stranger. Both properties are actually held in a limited liability corporation in his wife's name, he says. ''If I don't have the rent paid up,'' he said, ''I'll be sleeping in the living room.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of a medical campus in Reno, Nev., above, that is part owned by Pacific Medical Buildings. Arlene and Robert Vogt-Lowell, shown with their son Kyle, have bought two medical offices where he has medical practices. (Photos by HDR Architecture, above
 Alex Quesada for The New York Times, below)Chart: ''The Investors''BUYERS OF MEDICAL OFFICE PROPERTIESBY SHARE OF TOTAL PROPERTY VALUE, 2005Users: 8%Foreign or institutional investors: 20%Public REIT's: 21%Private investors: 51%(Source by Real Capital Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PEDIATRICS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CARDIOLOGY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); MEDICAID (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); INSURANCE (68%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); MEDICARE (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Doctors; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (78%); RENO, NV, USA (59%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WEST USA (78%); NEVADA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



95 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE FUNNY PAGES: II: TRUE-LIFE TALES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: The Sub 

BYLINE: By Todd Barry. 
Todd Barry is a comedian. His Web site is www.toddbarry.com. His last True-Life Tale was about finding a syringe on an airplane.

 BODY:
The phone jarred me awake at the usual time, around 6 or 7 a.m. It was a call to substitute-teach, a job I had been doing for several years. First in Florida, and now in New York City.
''The School for the Deaf needs a sub today,'' the woman on the line said. 
 ''I don't know sign language,'' I said. 
 ''It doesn't matter,'' the woman said.
 It doesn't matter if I know sign language? Wow. I'll remember this conversation when I get a call from ''60 Minutes.''
 ''Sure, I'll do it.'' 
 As it turned out, it didn't really matter. Well, not as much as I thought. There was a student teacher in the classroom who knew sign language, and the kids could read lips. And I did my best to communicate: I made generous amounts of eye contact, did lots of pointing and made some easily understood gestures with my eyebrows. 
 In a lot of ways, the School for the Deaf was better than my other assignments. The classes were much smaller, and -- maybe I shouldn't say this -- quieter. I'm not saying all the kids were angels. Sometimes I'd tell a kid to do something he didn't want to do, and he'd respond in a way that let me know I actually did know a little sign language.
 The School for the Deaf called me to teach a variety of subjects. One day I was called to teach home economics. The entire class was made up of two taller boys who looked a bit too old for grade school. We spent the class hanging around and burning food. (I believe it was macaroni and cheese.) It was fun. Yes, things were going O.K. at the school. That is, until I made a tragic error in judgment. I made a joke. 
 I showed up one day and ran into one of the friendlier teachers at the school.
 ''Oh, you have a rough bunch today,'' she said, laughing, obviously familiar with the kids I was about to teach. I mean ''teach.''
 ''Really,'' I fired back. ''I'll give you $5 to take them off my hands.'' I smiled, she laughed and we went on with our days.
 A few hours later I ran into this teacher again. She was grinning. She said the dean was going to talk to me later.
 ''About what?'' I said. I really had no idea.
 ''About offering me $5 to watch your class.'' She laughed. But not an ordinary laugh. It was an evil laugh. The kind of laugh that said, ''I knew you were joking about the $5, but I still chose to tell the one person who would take it seriously.'' 
 I spent the day in a state of stunned anger, then I ran into the dean in the hallway. She said she wanted to talk to me.
 ''I understand you offered money to another teacher to watch your class,'' she said sternly.
 ''Yes, that was a joke.'' 
 At that point she should have said: ''Oh, gosh, I'm so embarrassed. You know, I had a feeling you were joking. I mean, how could that not be a joke? If you wanted someone to watch your class, you wouldn't offer such a piddly amount, and you certainly wouldn't phrase it that way -- 'I'll give you $5.' That's not the way bribes are offered, not that directly. You would've said something smoother, like: 'Oh, I have a rough bunch, do I? Well, maybe I should bring out a friend to help me. A friend who lives in my wallet. . .a friend named Abraham Lincoln.. . .'''
 But she didn't say that. She sort of nodded and accepted my explanation but added, ''I assume you want to keep working here.''
 You assume that I want to keep working here? As a substitute teacher? You assume that I want the worst job in the world? Well, I assume that you still want me to work here because you didn't fire me on the spot. That's what I would do if I were a dean and I thought a teacher offered someone a $5 bribe so he could ditch his class. I'd fire that teacher on the spot, before he had a chance to reach into his wallet and pull out a more powerful 20. And since you didn't fire me on the spot, I'm going to assume that you knew in your heart that my $5 remark was a joke but that you can't bring yourself to say that out loud. 
 ''Yes,'' I said. ''I still want to work here.'' And I did. At the time, I was pursuing a career in comedy, and I needed a job that allowed me to take time off to do out-of-town shows. I could have worked as a waiter, but if you need time off from that, you have to ''trade shifts'' with someone, which puts you in the awful position of owing someone a favor. 
 Substitute-teaching is so flexible that you don't even have to officially quit. You just stop accepting assignments. So that's what I did.
 Shortly after I left, I found myself sitting on the subway across from a couple of tall young men. They spotted me and started laughing, probably at the memory of burning cheese. They were the guys from the home-ec class. One of them gave me the hugest grin as he enthusiastically shook my hand. They seemed genuinely happy to have a brief reunion with the little sub who couldn't even teach them how to prepare low-level dorm food. I still didn't know sign language, but there on the subway, it really didn't matter.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Evah Fan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (90%); DEAFNESS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT TEACHERS (73%); TEACHER EDUCATION (73%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees

PERSON: Todd Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



96 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 79

LENGTH: 3931 words

HEADLINE: Tax Break: Who Needs the Mortgage-Interest Deduction?

BYLINE: By Roger Lowenstein. 
Roger Lowenstein is a contributing writer. His last article for the magazine was about pensions.

 BODY:
One of the first financial lessons I learned from my father was that when you buy a house, you get a tax break from deducting the interest on your mortgage. Therefore, he would explain as if it were as natural as pivoting at second base on a throw from shortstop, a person could afford to pay more for a house that he owned than he would on a residence that he was only renting and on which he didn't get the tax break.
I didn't know why the government had chosen to influence my decision in this manner, and even less did I consider how it might affect the people on the other side -- the people who might be selling me a house, or lending me the money, or, for that matter, the guy who might have liked to have rented me an apartment if the Internal Revenue Code hadn't been tilted against him. 
 But it was a lesson I took to heart. When I was considering buying my very first dwelling, a 1BR w/EIK on West 79th Street with, for those who were sufficiently agile, a faint glimpse of the Hudson River, I vaguely remember that I scratched out the monthly cost of the mortgage payment, after which Dad made some quick calculations to demonstrate that the ''after-tax cost'' of the mortgage actually was within my budget. 
 From then on, deducting the interest became an indispensable tactic (in fact, it was the only tactic I had) in my forays into real estate. The houses got steadily bigger, and so did the mortgages. Last year, when my new wife and I bought a modern colonial in suburban Boston that was intended to accommodate a majority of the children we had accumulated from our first marriages, not to mention a plurality of our itinerant relatives, I took out an ''interest only'' mortgage, a big attraction of which was that the payments (all interest, no principal) were entirely deductible. 
 By then, I did know something about what the government was up to. Or at least I thought I did. Some fellow in the Treasury Department had long ago decided it would be a good thing for families like ours not to suffer through our lives as tenants. In fact, he (whoever he was) decided it would be good for our neighbors and for society in general if we could be owners and not just dwellers. In early America, only those who owned property were eligible to vote, and the notion that tenants were only provisional citizens, or at least had a lesser stake in things, has somehow endured. According to studies, people who own their homes take better care of them; they fix the roof more often and plant more lilacs. They join more clubs and community groups; they vote more often; they move around less often; and their kids do better in school. The government is subsidizing my house so I will do more gardening. Or something like that. 
 But when exactly did the interest deduction begin? I had often heard my father rhapsodize about the G.I. Bill of Rights, which was enacted in 1944, when he was serving in the Pacific, and which a few years later was paying his tuition at law school; the mortgage-interest deduction came to be joined in my mind as an adjunct piece of social policy. One got you an education and the other got you a house: together, they bought entree to the middle class. 
 Since the great migration to the suburbs also occurred after World War II, I assumed that the interest deduction was of a similar postwar vintage. Over the years, it has become an American folk legend: the government invented the mortgage-interest deduction to help people buy their own homes, and the level of homeownership has risen ever since. 
 What part of the legend is true? Basically, none of it.
 Economists don't agree on much, but they do agree on this: the interest deduction doesn't do a thing for homeownership rates. If you eliminated the deduction tomorrow, America would have the same number of homeowners, the same social networks, the same number of gardens.
 The deduction might help some people (like me) to purchase bigger homes than they otherwise would. And it certainly helps people who are selling mansions to get a higher price. But it is hardly the democratic subsidy people think. In fact, it's patently regressive. 
 More than 70 percent of tax filers don't get any benefit from the deduction at all. O.K., many of them are renters. But even among homeowners, only about half claim the deduction. And for the 37 million individuals and couples who do, the rewards, at least on average, are surprisingly modest -- just under $2,000 per return. (Figure it like this: the median home, as computed by the Bureau of the Census in 2003, is valued at $140,000. If you finance 80 percent of it with a 6 percent mortgage, your interest bill is $6,720 a year. A taxpayer in the 25 percent bracket would save one quarter, or $1,680.) 
 But cumulatively, the deduction is a big deal. This year, it is expected to cost the Treasury $76 billion. And the rewards are greatly skewed in favor of the moderately to the conspicuously rich. On a million-dollar mortgage (the people with those really need help, right?), the tax benefit is worth approximately $21,000 a year. And according to the Joint Committee on Taxation, a little over half of the benefit is taken by just 12 percent of taxpayers, or those with incomes of $100,000 or more. 
 This is a social policy? It's hard to imagine that Congress would intentionally legislate such a rich-get-richer handout, but the origins of the deduction are so obscure that the myth about it persists. David Lereah, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, explained the history of the deduction by observing matter-of-factly: ''Homeownership is something this country desires. If you read the tax codes over the last 100 years, you'll see the favoring of the housing sector and all the reasons Congress was giving for it.'' Congress has indeed done plenty of things over the years to support homeownership, but the deduction wasn't one of them. That mole in the Treasury Department who invented the deduction so I could buy a house -- he never existed. In fact, as Steven Bourassa, of the University of Louisville, and William Grigsby, at the University of Pennsylvania, wrote in ''Housing Policy Debate,'' a Fannie Mae publication, the mortgage deduction ''was largely accidental.''
 The first modern federal income tax was created in 1894. Interest -- all forms of interest -- was deductible; the Supreme Court, however, quickly ruled that the tax was unconstitutional. In 1913, the Constitution was amended and a new income tax was enacted. Once again, interest was deductible.
 There is no evidence, however, that Congress thought much about this provision. It certainly wasn't thinking of the interest deduction as a stepping-stone to middle-class homeownership, because the tax excluded the first $3,000 (or for married couples, $4,000) of income; less than 1 percent of the population earned more than that. The people paying taxes -- Andrew Carnegie and such -- did not need the deduction to afford their homes or their yachts. 
 There is another reason Congress could not have had homeownership in mind. The great majority of people who owned a home did not have a mortgage. The exceptions were farmers. But most folks bought their homes with cash; they had no mortgage interest to deduct. 
 When Congress made interest deductible, it was probably thinking of business interest. Just as today, the aim was to tax a business's profits after expenses had been netted out, and interest was an expense like any other. In a nation of small proprietors, basically all interest looked like business interest. Whether it was interest on a farm mortgage, or interest on a loan to purchase a tractor, or interest charged to a general store that purchased its inventory on credit, it all would have looked like a business expense. Credit cards did not exist. So Congress just said, ''Deduct it.''
 It was not until the 1920's and the spread of the automobile that home mortgages outnumbered farm mortgages. In the 1930's, the mortgage industry got a huge assist from the feds -- not from the tax deduction, but from agencies like the Federal Housing Administration, which insured 30-year loans, and, over time, the newly created Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae. Before then, the corner bank would issue a mortgage and wait for the homeowner to pay them back; now savings and loans could replenish their capital by selling their mortgages to Fannie Mae -- meaning they could turn around and issue a new mortgage to someone else. 
 By the time the G.I.'s returned from World War II, bursting with dreams of homeownership, the mortgage industry was ready for them. It wasn't until after 1950 that the majority of homeowners had mortgages. And thanks to this ready financing, renters suddenly became owners. After hovering around 45 percent for the first half of the 20th century, the proportion of owner-occupied homes soared. By 1960, 62 percent of Americans owned their homes. (Today, the figure is only slightly higher: 69 percent.) 
 Of course, it was in those postwar years, when people were getting their first mortgages and also their first homes, that Americans discovered the joy of the interest deduction. Over time, it evolved into a birthright -- almost like owning a home itself. Perhaps it was that confluence of trends that led people to suppose, as Daniel Gross did last year in the online journal Slate, that the U.S.'s ''enviably high rate of homeownership'' is a product of the deduction. But the existence of credit was a much greater catalyst than the longstanding ability to deduct it. Homeowners who genuflect to the deduction should probably be giving their thanks to mortgage bankers instead. 
 In any case, the growth of credit cards in the 70's began to turn the interest deduction into a serious loophole. People were becoming plastic junkies; if you paid for a washing machine on credit, the I.R.S. would give you a subsidy. By the 1980's, this threatened the entire system of revenue collection. There was some talk that the Treasury was looking at eliminating deductions, including, possibly, the interest deduction. Economists thought it was a good idea. ''Tax economists tend to be skeptical about preferences in the tax,'' says Joseph Thorndike, the director of the Tax History Project at the nonpartisan Tax Analysts. ''Are they targeted to the right people? We give tax breaks for college; do we send more kids to college or help middle-class kids who are going to college anyway?'' Fine and well, but was an elected official really going to risk fooling with the mortgage deduction?
 President Reagan was not. Addressing the National Association of Realtors in 1984, he said, ''I want you to know that we will preserve the part of the American dream which the home-mortgage-interest deduction symbolizes.'' He didn't mention that it also symbolized the American love affair with debt; after all, it encourages people to pay for their homes with a mortgage instead of with equity. Two years later, in the tax-reform act of 1986, Congress ended the deductibility of interest on credit-card and other consumer loans; it left the mortgage deduction in place. 
 But Congress did set a cap. Today, a taxpayer can deduct the interest on mortgages worth up to a total of $1 million on his or her first or second homes. Also, you can deduct up to $100,000 on a home-equity loan. (And what prevents you from using a home-equity line to buy a flat-screen TV and then deducting the interest? Absolutely nothing; go for it.)
 At the beginning of 2005, flush from his election victory, President Bush envisioned another major tax reform, somewhat similar to that of 1986. Simplifying the tax code was a major goal, as was winnowing out the tax breaks that were again eating a hole through the Treasury. Bush appointed a nine-member, bipartisan panel to drum up a proposal. The president ordered the panel to ''recognize the importance of homeownership.'' People figured the interest deduction was off limits. 
 But the panel, with former Senator Connie Mack III as chairman, asked the taboo question of whether homeownership and the interest deduction were related. It decided that they weren't. 
 One reason is that homeownership in the U.S. is about the same as it is in Canada, Australia and England, where interest isn't deductible. Another reason is just common sense. If you want to increase homeownership, you have to do something so that renters become owners. But just over two-thirds of all taxpayers, including most renters, don't itemize their deductions, generally because they don't earn enough; they simply take the ''standard deduction.'' The mortgage deduction doesn't help them. 
 Most taxpayers who do itemize come from the wealthiest one-third; they would own a home regardless. Some have been using the deduction to buy boats (''houseboats,'' for accounting purposes). The panel wasn't interested in helping people buy boats or palatial estates. ''Why,'' asks Charles Rossotti, a former I.R.S. commissioner and panelist, ''would you want an abnormally large subsidy for people who have abnormally large mortgages?''
 The panel's charge was to make the tax code simpler and ''fairer'' while keeping it as progressive as it is now -- and without, on a net basis, losing any revenue. Bush also wanted it to be pro-growth, not surprisingly, and thus the panel resolved to reduce the scope of the Alternative Minimum Tax, a sort of shadow tax that has come to be levied on more and more filers every year and that confuses just about everyone who has to pay it. 
 But to eliminate the A.M.T., the experts on the panel had to find an alternate source of revenue. The most obvious place was what the Joint Committee calls ''federal tax expenditures'' -- deductions and loopholes that cause the Treasury to lose revenue. The Joint Committee produces a list of such expenditures; it runs for many pages and it is a fearsome document. 
 The tax code currently helps (in no particular order) veterans, the disabled and Americans living abroad; it gives a break to science research, oil and gas developers, alcohol-fuel blenders and biodiesel blenders; it helps agriculture and dairy farms; it helps Blue Cross and Blue Shield; it helps film companies and railroads; it helps students and teachers; it assists New Yorkers and District of Columbians and Native Americans and many, many others. The interest deduction is one of the biggest breaks, right behind health-care premiums paid by corporations, which are tax-free to the employees. A slightly different type of exemption protects corporate retirement plans. In all, such foregone tax collections, or tax expenditures, amount to more than half of the income tax that the Treasury does collect.
 In the panel's view, though many or most of the deductions help some worthy individual or group, they come at a large total cost to everyone else. And so, last November, the panel did what had been asked of it: it proposed a simplified tax code with fewer deductions and, in return, lower individual and corporate rates and an end to the A.M.T. The proposal included a thunderbolt: the U.S. should scrap the mortgage-interest deduction and replace it with a smaller tax credit, available to every homeowner. 
 Under the panel's scheme, taxpayers would receive a credit equal to 15 percent of their mortgage interest. However, the credit would be capped at a level at which the owner of an above-average-sized home could take full advantage. The maximum break would be several thousand dollars a year, and only principal residences -- not ski condos -- would qualify. 
 The panel's courage was met with predictable howls ofprotest. Real-estate agents screamed that ending the sacred interest deduction would set off a slump in the housing market -- a pillar in an otherwise weak economy and so forth. Donald Trump, who knows everything, said that eliminating the deduction would result in ''a total catastrophe'' for the U.S. economy. ''It will lead to a major recession, if not a depression.'' 
 The panel considered this. It also debated the uniqueness of the deduction -- a tax provision that has become embedded in mainstream culture -- but in the end, according to James Poterba, an economist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ''We wanted to wipe the slate clean.'' The package, he and the others surely hoped, would be judged on its overall equity, not on a provision-by-provision basis.
 Since 1986, there have been some 15,000 amendments to the tax code, always to help some interest or other but each time distorting free-market incentives. To an economist, when someone invests for profit, that's good. When they invest to take advantage of a tax break, that's bad. ''It's a standard canon of economics,'' Poterba says. It means that capital is being diverted from its best use, and the economy suffers as a result. 
 You can think of the mortgage deduction as a distortion that has helped potential home sellers -- not buyers or owners -- and this is why the housing industry is so agitated. Research suggests that without the deduction, people would still buy the houses they do now; they would just cost a little less. In effect, the market would adjust downward to reflect some of the decrease in buyers' purchasing power. Though no one knows, a plausible estimate is that prices at the upper end of the housing spectrum would fall by 10 to 15 percent. Prices of less expensive houses would probably rise a bit, because people who don't get a break now would get the tax credit and thus could spend a little more.
 To cushion the impact, the panel recommended phasing the change in over five years. That might not be very palatable if you happened to have just bought (and financed) a seven-figure home, but remember, the extra money paid into the Treasury wouldn't disappear; it would be returned to taxpayers who would no longer be subject to the A.M.T. The money would still be there, only now it would be in everybody's pockets, not just those of luxury homeowners. You wouldn't have to invest in a house to benefit; you could invest where you wanted. That's called a free market. 
 The real-estate industry logically prefers a protected market to a free one. It argues that capital would drain out of housing. ''This is antihousing,'' says Jerry Howard, chief executive of the National Association of Home Builders. ''You will do some serious damage to states with strong vacation economies.'' You can see why home builders are upset: their margins are fattest on luxury homes; a policy that pushes prices toward the middle, as egalitarian as it might sound, would end their party. 
 But tax policy was never intended to function as a price support. Even less should it support a putative housing bubble. Even the president's directive mentioned sustaining housing ownership -- not sustaining housing prices. High prices may even be a disincentive to ownership. And the housing market, the panel concluded, is overcapitalized anyway. Thanks to the interest deduction and other breaks, the effective tax rate on owner-occupied real estate in the U.S. is estimated to be only a fraction of the tax on business. Some of the capital being plowed into McMansions with Olympic-size lap pools would earn a higher return (tax considerations aside) in medical research or pollution control. 
 If you scratch deeply enough, not even the real-estate lobby thinks that the interest deduction makes much sense economically. It's just a goody that homeowners, not to mention real-estate agents, have grown used to. Lereah, the economist for the National Association of Realtors, said: ''If you're rewriting the book of Genesis, I might have a different approach. But if you make changes in the middle of the game, it's going to have a negative impact of the value of property . . .reduce people's retirement nest egg, funds they have available for college. You're going to cause a great dislocation.''
 I asked Lereah if we could ever try a new approach -- clean the slate -- and he repeated that it's too late now to ''rewrite Genesis.'' It would seem that any deduction that survived the biblical Flood is off limits. As absurd as this may sound, Lereah's organization represents 1.2 million real-estate agents, and they have made their displeasure known. Lereah predicted that repeal would be ''dead on arrival in Congress.'' And so, more or less, did everyone else. 
 The only people who seemed to like what the panel did were other experts, principally economists. Joel Slemrod, at the University of Michigan business school, said: ''What they're proposing is a good idea. Owning stocks is good for society, too,'' he noted, but stockbrokers don't get a handout from the feds. ''Right now, our tax code says, 'Don't build a factory, build a mansion,' '' says Kevin Hassett of the American Enterprise Institute. ''The deduction is the perfect break for bobos in paradise.'' 
 Hassett didn't say whether he was referring to elected representatives or to their wealthier constituents, but the purpose of an advisory panel, of course, is to suggest things that mere politicians would not. ''There was a feeling that the job of our commission was not to take the political temperature,'' Poterba told me. ''If you can't inject principles into a discussion like this, you never will.'' Connie Mack, the chairman, actually maintained that the proposal had a chance. He pointed out -- as he did to the secretary of the Treasury -- that the panel, which included liberals as well as conservatives, had achieved the rare feat of unanimity. He was hoping the secretary would get the ball rolling and that the president would begin a major tax-reform initiative -- maybe in the State of the Union. A fine idea. But the State of the Union came and went, and if President Bush was thinking of implementing his panel's agenda -- much less of repealing the interest deduction -- he didn't get around to saying so. Maybe the president has too much on his plate; maybe he reckoned a financing technique that homeowners have been schooled on by their dads for a couple of generations wasn't an appealing target. ''There is a question of what is myth and what is reality,'' Rossotti, the former I.R.S. commissioner observed. ''Some people think we're undermining a fundamental piece of America.'' 
 A more salable approach would be to kill the deduction in stages, by gradually reducing the $1 million ceiling over many years. Over time, it would simply disappear. Congress could do that; it should do it. The deduction is overrated as an icon, and as tax policy it is misdirected and unfair. But don't hold your breath. Homeownership and a level playing field are always good for a speech. But they are nothing compared with propping up housing prices. And that is what the mortgage deduction is all about.

 Homeowners earning less than $100,000 -- 75 percent of those taking the deduction -- shared only 45 percent of the benefit (Figure A). Those earning more than $100,000 -- 25 percent of those taking the deduction -- reaped 55 percent of the benefit (Figure B).
 homeowners who claimed the deduction
''The Deduction Distribution''
 The chart shows that only about half of homeowners file for the mortgage-interest deduction. For the 37 million who do, the benefit is greatest for those in the highest income brackets. (Source: Joint Committee on Taxation) 
''Bigger Mortgage, Bigger Benefit''
 (Figures assume a purchase with 20 percent equity, 80 percent financing at 6% interest rate.)(Charts by Sarah Gephart)

GRAPHIC: Charts: ''Uneven Split?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX DEDUCTIONS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MARRIAGE (68%); FAMILY (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%) Taxation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Housing; Mortgages

PERSON: Roger Lowenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



97 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Affordable Housing; Pg. 114

LENGTH: 4585 words

HEADLINE: The Suburban Solution

BYLINE: By Andrew Rice. 
Andrew Rice last wrote for the magazine about George Weah, the Liberian presidential candidate. He is writing a book about Uganda.

 BODY:
Bernie Tetreault was driving along Good Hope Road, past the Baptist churches and check-cashing storefronts that populate Washington's poorest neighborhood, when a dented green street sign caught his eye. It marked the way to the Frederick Douglass Dwellings, a place that no longer existed. ''Yeah, those are gone,'' he said. ''That's Henson Ridge.'' Tetreault, 67, an adviser to the District of Columbia Housing Authority, has the clipped demeanor of a city manager, which he once was; in those few words, he had summed up the death and revival of an entire community. Where the Frederick Douglass public-housing project once stood -- violent, run-down, rat-infested -- the city government was erecting Henson Ridge: several hundred new homes, painted in shades of cream and taupe. 
Tetreault was driving there, in his late-model black convertible, to show me his vision of the future of public housing. An accomplished creator of homes for the poor -- he spent most of his career in leafy Montgomery County, Md., where he helped devise and run some of the country's most admired housing programs -- he left retirement a decade ago to come to D.C., where the task has been, quite literally, destruction. Since 1996, nearly $800 million has been spent to level some of D.C.'s most notorious housing projects and resurrect them as mixed-income communities, an effort Tetreault has spearheaded. 
 Henson Ridge was still a work in progress. As we drove into the development, backhoes were excavating a vast fenced-in field where apartment blocks once stood. ''Fred Douglass was war housing that was built for the workers'' during the 1940's, Tetreault told me. ''Then they sold it to the housing authority. It was terrible. Oh, man, it was terrible.'' By the late 1990's, when the project was finally shut down, the median income was just $7,765, more than 80 percent of residents had no jobs and the biggest local employer was probably the ''1-5 Mob,'' a notorious crack-dealing gang. 
 Such projects -- the kind of dystopian superblocks that inspired crime dramas like ''New Jack City'' and ''The Wire'' -- were never representative of America's low-income housing; they amounted to perhaps 100,000 of the federal government's stock of about five million units. But they were meaningful symbols, crumbling rebukes to the ideal, pronounced in the landmark Housing Act of 1949, that the federal government should provide ''a decent home and suitable living environment for every American family.'' Their demise only underscores that the days of such aspirations are gone. The Frederick Douglass projects were demolished by bulldozers and front-end loaders; the federal government's commitment to shelter its poor has been dismantled slowly, quietly, brick by brick. Richard Nixon moved federal policy toward issuing vouchers instead of building new housing. Ronald Reagan gutted HUD's construction budget and narrowed its mission. Since then, the cuts have kept coming. From 1976 to 2000, subsidized housing's share of new federal spending fell 80 percent, according to Michael A. Stegman, a former HUD official, now at the University of North Carolina. ''This year, there is virtually no new housing production,'' he says. Meanwhile, as housing-subsidy agreements expire, about 1,000 apartments a month leave the federal housing rolls.
 The need for affordable housing, however, will always be with us. If anything, the problem is growing in many American cities and their older suburbs, as a perverse side effect of the last decade's urban economic resurgence. As big-city real-estate prices continue to inflate, and the affluent move into neighborhoods that once defined urban decline -- like Harlem in New York, the Mission District in San Francisco or Logan Circle in Washington -- the poor, and even the working class, are having a harder time finding places to live. Local governments are struggling to fill the federal void as best they can, with an uneven patchwork of initiatives. Reagan ran for president in 1980 on the notion that the common good would be best served if the federal government scaled back its sweeping ambitions and left the thinking to the locals. Though advocates for the poor would be loath to admit it, that's exactly what has happened. They are living in the world Reaganism created, making the best of it by devising market-oriented, grass-roots solutions. ''Increasingly, the creativity, the ingenuity, the political will is stronger at the state and local level than at the federal,'' says Conrad Egan, president of the National Housing Conference, a group that advocates for more low-income assistance. 
 As decision-making authority is pushed closer to the ground, housing officials are thinking more like landowners. The new goal is to create mixed-income communities indistinguishable from those built by private real-estate developers. Taking the market ethic one step further, some programs shift the burden of providing housing for the poor from the government to private developers themselves, most often by giving zoning bonuses to builders -- allowing them to build more profitably per acre -- in return for setting aside affordably-priced units in their developments. The shift in outlook is reflected in changing language: ''public'' housing has become ''affordable'' or ''work force'' housing; ''projects'' are now ''developments''; ''tenants'' have become ''stakeholders'' or ''homeowners,'' because many of the new public houses are for sale. 
 Tetreault turned left up a street within Henson Ridge. Before us stood a row of new town houses. Outside one, a man was washing his S.U.V. A child was playing with a remote-controlled car along the sidewalk. On the way over, Tetreault had told me, ''What you want to do is set the mix so that the 'feel'''-- he took his hands off the steering wheel to make little quotes in the air -- ''is market rate.'' By that, he meant middle class: about a third of the 320 houses for sale at Henson Ridge will be reserved for former public-housing tenants. The rest will be sold at market rates, though the city will help people with lower incomes get mortgage subsidies. There will also be 280 rental units, offered at prices for a range of incomes. The idea is to reproduce the daily interplay among social classes that is said, perhaps apocryphally, to have once thrived in cities. 
 Tetreault, like many urban theorists, says that the old policy of concentrating the poor in housing projects failed because it undermined the social structures -- family, workplace, neighborhood -- that created something called a community. The price of building a mixed-income development at Henson Ridge, sacrificing a few hundred units from the city's depleted stock of public housing, is one Tetreault says he felt the city had to pay, even if it meant that a large fraction of those people whom Frederick Douglass once served, however poorly, ended up getting lost. ''It won't feel market rate if you've got too many very low income families,'' he said. ''You try to stretch that as far as you can, but don't push it too far.'' 
 If the ''feel'' of Henson Ridge, from its sylvan name to its muted colors to its gently curving streets, evokes nothing so much as the suburbs, that is no accident. A decade that has witnessed the miraculous resurrection of many cities has also seen a remarkable reversal in housing policy. Not long ago, America's suburbs were widely considered a wasteland for progressive policies. These days, ideas are migrating backward, as urban-housing advocates look for inspiration in places like Longmont, Colo., and Chula Vista, Calif. The solutions suburbs have developed are widely divergent, as you would expect, but they tend to have at least one thing in common: instead of relying on expensive and unpopular public subsidies, they seek to harness the power of the rising real-estate market.
 In this regard, Bernie Tetreault's career is emblematic. He ran the housing authority in Montgomery County for almost a quarter-century. At the time he took the job, in the early 70's, the county faced a challenge similar to the one many cities are encountering today. Development was booming as white-collar workers flooded in. Housing prices were rising spectacularly. Teachers, police officers and other working-class people were finding it difficult to stay. During Tetreault's tenure, the county began devising its own approaches, eventually becoming to affordable-housing policy what Palo Alto is to the technology industry: an incubator of new ideas.
 Tetreault, a compact man with close-shorn gray hair, dresses like a lobbyist and speaks like a banker. Where other housing advocates tend to wax utopian, he grounds his conversations in hard numbers and terse sentences. In his spare time, he now promotes Montgomery County-style programs through the Innovative Housing Institute, which he founded. 
 Montgomery County was, in many ways, a perfect place to experiment. It possessed in abundance the two things that housing advocates crave: money and political will. The county, which is populated by many government workers, has a long tradition of promoting liberal social programs, and its most famous innovation wasn't even Tetreault's idea: it was a product of popular demand. In the early 70's, a group of Democrats took control of the county council after a campaign in which they promised to tackle the local housing crisis. They argued that if the federal government wouldn't help, the county could force developers to. They changed the local zoning ordinance so that anyone building a large new development had to set aside 15 percent of the units for buyers or renters with low and moderate incomes. In return, they promised that the builders could construct more homes on the same amount of property. The county could also buy one-third of the units produced under the set-aside program to rent to the truly indigent. Despite the inducements, most builders opposed the program, saying that it would retard development and invite a bad element to the county. Epithets like ''radical'' and ''European'' were thrown around. The council had to override the county executive's veto.
 The ''inclusionary zoning'' program, as it is known, became the centerpiece of a package of widely imitated initiatives, like a ''housing trust fund'' financed by property taxes and programs that offered mortgage financing and closing-cost assistance to home buyers. With periodic tinkering, the ordinance succeeded in creating roughly 11,000 affordably priced houses and apartments over its first 20 years without noticeably dampening development. Dozens of mixed-income communities came into being at relatively little cost to the county. And there was hardly any of the nasty class warfare that so often accompanies attempts to build low-income housing, even in progressive Montgomery County. 
 Joyce Siegel, who used to run the local housing authority's public-affairs office, told me that before the ordinance passed, ''every time there was a proposal to build public housing, a 50-unit development or something, my husband would say I was going to a lynching. People went crazy. They were so opposed to it because of their property values.'' But afterward, ''there was never a peep,'' she says. ''Never a public peep. No more public hearings, no more screaming, no more lynchings. It was the law, and everybody knew it was fair across the board.''
 Over time, Montgomery County's radical idea has become an accepted, even trendy, practice throughout the country. David Rusk, a former mayor of Albuquerque and a tireless promoter of inclusionary zoning, has counted 134 cities, towns and counties around the country that now have such ordinances. Several states, including California, Massachusetts and New Jersey, also have laws on the books, though they are enforced spottily. When Tetreault's policy institute and several other organizations sponsored a three-day conference on the subject last fall, it drew more than 200 attendees, representing at least 30 local and state governments as well as many private organizations. They piled into a bus for a daylong tour of model communities around the region, like Carrington in Fairfax County, Va., where a developer has built a pair of four-unit apartment complexes disguised as beige-trimmed McMansions.
 Such programs may face a hidden threat. In almost every jurisdiction where such ordinances have been proposed, building-industry groups have opposed them, often complaining that they amount to an unjust ''taking'' of private property. This argument has yet to be seriously tested in court, but in a study of the set-aside programs, Douglas R. Porter, an expert on urban growth, ominously concludes that ''the 'right' to decent and/or affordable housing is a moral assertion more than a legal issue.''
 Montgomery County's law faced one of its most serious tests in the late 80's, when a local developer, Anthony Natelli, bought a thousand acres of rolling farmland in Potomac and announced plans to build Avenel, a 900-home community set around a golf course. Natelli asked to construct a low-cost apartment building in downtown Bethesda instead of in Avenel. The county recommended against his request, and Natelli relented, building an enclave of 60 small houses that sold for about $90,000 each. Twenty of the homes, in keeping with the county's longstanding policy, were rented to people living below the poverty line; the rest were sold, by lottery, to families with incomes up to $35,000 a year. ''I felt strongly that Avenel should have a portion of the units,'' Tetreault says. ''So now you have Mr. Marriott living in Avenel, and you have some moderate-income people living in Avenel, and you have some public-housing residents.''
 The road to Avenel winds through the hills and old-growth woods of Potomac, past deer-crossing signs and stately stone manors. On a January morning when I drove through, a landscaping crew was tending the lawn outside a Doric-columned home just across the way from Pleasant Gate Lane, the cul-de-sac where the poorer folks live. The street is set in a natural depression and is shielded from the road by tall evergreens. The houses, Cape Cods with brass porch lamps and shutters of varying colors, are modest and set close together. There were covered gas grills in most of the tiny backyards. Mario Wawrzusin still had a Christmas wreath hanging on his door.
 Wawrzusin, 46, is a county social worker who paid his way through Catholic University. He is proud of his home and values the fact that his two sons attend one of the state's best public high schools. Most of his neighbors on Pleasant Gate Lane are similarly striving types, many of them immigrants. In the beginning, there was some tension between Pleasant Gate Lane and the larger community Wawrzusin refers to as ''across the street.'' Even before the houses were finished, some anonymous neighbors were complaining to The Washington Post. ''There are just concerns about the element of people moving in,'' one told the paper. Wawrzusin joined the homeowners' board as a representative of the Pleasant Gate Lane residents, and he said that their presence came to be accepted. ''I had one of the homeowner advisory board guys go up to my neighborhood,'' Wawrzusin recalled. ''He said to me: 'You know, Mario, you're the one who lives in a normal house. Our house is really odd.' That kind of was a nice thing.''
 Thomas Natelli is the 45-year-old son of Anthony Natelli, who died in 2004. Thomas is now the C.E.O. of the family's development firm and is himself an Avenel resident. ''Time is always the test of these things,'' he says. Despite the initial fears of Avenel homeowners, the presence of less-affluent people along Pleasant Gate Lane does not seem to have adversely affected resale prices, which squares with the findings of studies conducted by housing advocates. The average asking price for a house at Avenel is now $2 million, and one was recently on the market for three times that amount. Developers, happily or not, have come to accept the set-aside program as part of doing business. ''It is part of the fabric of the development process in the county,'' Natelli says.
 There are housing advocates who are skeptical of programs like Montgomery County's. They say that because developers don't sell to anyone poorer than they have to, the main beneficiaries are families that just make the qualifying threshold of 65 percent of the region's median income, or about $55,000 for a family of four. The truly needy are much poorer than that, and critics say that private-sector solutions don't help them much. And the poor are increasingly plentiful in the suburbs: when Montgomery County recently opened its waiting list for the federal housing-voucher program, 10,000 families signed up in five days. ''It's one program that has a lot of very good aspects, but it doesn't solve everything,'' says Elizabeth Davison, director of the county's Department of Housing and Community Affairs. 
 Advocates of the set-aside program, however, say that it fills a vital need, because by assisting people like Wawrzusin -- in need of some help but not desperately poor -- it frees up scant public-housing resources for those who need them most. But, as so often in public-policy debates, a program that works splendidly for a few also raises basic questions about fairness for all. The lucky families who won the Avenel lottery are no longer poor. They have grown older, established themselves, earned promotions. More to the point, they own valuable assets: their homes. Until recently, Montgomery County's law was written so that price controls on the affordable units expired after 10 years, at which point residents were free to sell their homes at market rates and split the proceeds with the county. At Avenel, asking prices for the houses on Pleasant Gate Lane now run well over $500,000.
 Wawrzusin and his wife have watched several of their neighbors sell their houses for big profits, and somewhat abashedly, he admits that they sometimes talk about cashing in themselves. He has thought about retiring to upstate New York. ''My kids are in a good school, so I'm not going anywhere,'' Wawrzusin said. ''Once they're out of school, I'll most certainly think about going somewhere. We'll see.''
 ''You'd be amazed at what they did on Eighth Street here,'' Tetreault said as we drove past the grounds of the Washington Navy Yard in the city's Southeast section. He showed me a vacant lot that was once a housing project (slated to come back as a mixed-income residential and office development), pointed out the probable location of the new Washington Nationals baseball stadium and hung a left. We drove up a street of refurbished brick storefronts, passing a bike shop, a Blockbuster and the home of the Shakespeare Theater Company. A few elderly black men sat on one street corner, shooting the breeze, but most of the faces on the street were white. 
 Tetreault came to D.C. in 1995, at a time when the city was mired in bankruptcy. He was looking for a new challenge to burnish his legacy. His tenure in Montgomery County had ended badly. Clashes with new political appointees to the housing authority's board culminated in his firing. Tetreault's detractors had complained that he was imperious and wouldn't take orders; when, several years after his departure, HUD placed the county's federal housing-voucher program on probation for various administrative lapses, some blamed him for neglecting details. (Tetreault says the problems arose after he left.) D.C.'s housing officials, however, desperately needed ideas. They hired Tetreault as a kind of thinker in residence. The job required a reversal: instead of finding a place for the poor in one of the country's richest counties, Tetreault would be coaxing the middle class into onetime ghettos. Either way, he figured, it was integration. 
 Then something unexpected happened: Washington's housing market turned around. Between 2000 and 2005, housing prices rose 119 percent, and names that once struck fear into middle-class hearts -- U Street, Columbia Heights, Eastern Market -- have become the stuff of cocktail-party chatter. While that made it easier to revive blighted neighborhoods, there are now fewer places for the poor to live. All of which has caused elected officials to start thinking seriously about how to create affordable housing. 
 It was long thought that urban real-estate markets couldn't grow fast enough to produce an appreciable number of affordable units through set-aside programs, but a decade of rising towers and skyrocketing prices has made many city governments think again. Boston and San Francisco, which have had set-aside programs for more than a decade, have recently beefed them up. San Diego and Denver enacted new ordinances in the last few years, and last summer New York passed a limited zoning change along the Brooklyn waterfront, where developers are eager to erect residential buildings on derelict industrial sites. Other cities, including Chicago, Los Angeles and Atlanta, are currently debating similar plans.
 ''It's almost a desperation response,'' says Bruce Katz, a former Clinton-administration official and the director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution. ''The affordability issue in housing is worsening in the United States in many otherwise prosperous metros, because we're seeing widening gaps between wages and prices.'' On average, nationwide, it takes a $15-an-hour job to rent a decent two-bedroom apartment; the Center for Housing Policy estimates that about five million working families are in serious need, a 67 percent increase since 1997. Rising prices have forced poor and working-class people to crowd into already distressed neighborhoods or to migrate to decaying inner-ring suburbs.
 This is particularly true in Washington, where it now takes a household income of more than $85,000 to buy the average house. For the poor, most federal housing assistance comes in the form of HUD vouchers, but the program's budget keeps getting squeezed, and the district now has a waiting list that's 47,500 names long. Half of those who do receive vouchers still can't find housing; some landlords, eager to capitalize on gentrification, are now refusing to accept them. 
 In response, about three years ago, a group of housing advocates began pushing the idea of a Montgomery County-style set-aside program in the district. After many delays, the local zoning board issued a draft ordinance last month. A vote is scheduled for later this spring. Developers, real-estate agents and leaders of the construction industry have fought the proposal. They argue that an idea that works in the suburbs won't necessarily translate to the city because the economics of building high-rises make adding an extra floor or two prohibitively expensive. And because Washington has an inviolable restriction on height -- nothing can be more than 20 feet taller than the width of the street it faces -- density bonuses may not provide much incentive. 
 There may be a more serious problem, though, when it comes to the set-aside programs. In 2003, an independent report found that the district's affordable-housing shortage stood at 24,000 units, six times as large as it was in 1990. In the advocates' best estimates, changing the zoning ordinance will create fewer than 1,000 apartments a year. Theseprojections, mind you, are based on the number of buildings that were in development between 2000 and 2003, in the midst of a once-in-a-generation growth spurt. So what goes up when the market declines? 
 Not much. ''You have to have a booming real-estate market to make it work,'' Douglas Porter, the housing expert, says. When the economy slows, and people are presumably more in need, the set-aside programs stop working. In fact, one place now facing the problem of slowing growth is Montgomery County. Its developable land is dwindling, even as it is losing many of the houses built under its zoning ordinance because the 10-year waiting periods for reselling them are expiring. Of the 11,000 units of affordable housing created under the set-aside program, only about 3,000 remained under price controls in 2003. Local officials say the number of new units created has slowed to a trickle.
 When presented with such numbers, advocates of these programs tend to adopt a fallback position: they justify them not on the grounds of how much housing they'll provide but rather on the kind of society they may conjure. Forcing developers to include a few affordable apartments in their buildings may not solve the present crisis, but it makes a symbolic statement that there's still a place for the poor -- or at least the working class -- in America's changing cities. The truth is, though the new-generation housing policies are creations of necessity, the logic of them is as much moral as economic. The mixed-income communities that are coming into being, whether created by a zoning ordinance or built the old-fashioned way, are not just places to live. They're political statements in bricks and mortar, speaking out in favor of hard work, family stability and homeownership. Ronald Reagan would be proud.
 Yet such cherished values go only so far. In the end, poor people still need a place to sleep. Nearly every expert agrees that hitching housing policy to the private market is an unpredictable and imperfect solution. At some point, government has to spend. As we drove through the streets of Southeast Washington, I asked Tetreault if he thought ambitious low-income developments like Henson Ridge -- which was, after all, partly financed by HUD -- could ever be produced without the help of the federal government. He told me that the city's own housing trust fund, established in 2002 and financed by real-estate-transfer taxes, had lately swelled to $40 million. ''But it's really only because of the really hot real-estate market we have in the city,'' he said. ''You can't count on that. ''
 We passed a construction site along Pennsylvania Avenue, where massive cranes were at work on Thornton Row, a new luxury-condominium complex. Tetreault said its developer had expressed interest in buying a nearby public-housing project and knocking it down. ''That's why I have stayed and continue to work in the District of Columbia, because I see a lot of gentrification taking place,'' he said. ''It's going to come to Southeast, and what I want to do is make sure those families are housed before the gentrification gets down here. That sounds a little bit idealistic, but anyway.. . .'' His voice trailed off.
 Then he snapped back to the concrete world. ''Look at this,'' he said as we drove along a row of classic brick town houses with peaked roofs, bay windows and dormers. ''This is where 45 units of public housing used to be. If I didn't stop you, you wouldn't know.'' A few years before, he said, the city tore down a housing project, ''a concrete bunker,'' that stood on this block. ''So what did we get?'' Tetreault continued. ''We got 38 units where 45 were, so we lost 7 units. But, I mean, those 38 fit into that neighborhood.'' And he was right: it looked like a lovely block to live on, at least for the lucky fraction of public-housing residents who were able to get in. For those left out, Tetreault said, there are housing vouchers. But there are no more guarantees.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Carrington complex in Fairfax County, Va., says McMansion from the front, modest apartment building from the back.
 Affordable Mail: The pair of four-unit town houses at Carrington means eight households. (Photographs by Nikolas Koenig for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RELIGION (78%); SUBURBS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITIES (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%) Housing; Zoning; Renting and Leasing; Suburbs; Housing

PERSON: Andrew Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Montgomery County (Md)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



98 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; The Next Neighborhood; Pg. 108

LENGTH: 3760 words

HEADLINE: Psst Have You Heard About Bushwick?

BYLINE: By Robert Sullivan. 
Robert Sullivan is the author of ''Rats: Observations on the History and Habitat of the City's Most Unwanted Inhabitants'' and ''How Not to Get Rich: Why Being Bad Off Isn't So Bad.''

 BODY:
On a rainy winter afternoon, just a few minutes after running over a stray hubcap, just after having to pull his beat-up Toyota sedan off a beat-up section of the beat-up Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and having to run the little white car back and forth until at last the hubcap broke free, Tom Le, choreographer-turned-real-estate-agent, re-enters the mad rush of the highway and a mile or so later exits as planned, ending up on a detour, Park Avenue. ''I'm running a little late,'' he says, semicalmly, into his cellphone.
This Park Avenue, by the way, is no Park Avenue. This Park Avenue runs through the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, passing soot-covered stores, forgotten (for the moment, anyway) tenements, forlorn housing projects, factories that may or may not be empty, auto-repair shops and Hasidic women pushing strollers. This is the Park Avenue that -- as the sky now begins to pour, as the broken-up streets flood with oil-slicked water -- lands Tom Le, a Corcoran Group Realtor, at the intersection of Central and Evergreen, in a vista of plumbing-supply stores and fenced-in yards that is neither central nor green. 
 Then he parks, locks, dashes into an old storefront, so that he is suddenly the tiniest bit overdressed, a tinge too businesslike for the all-of-the-sudden hip environs. Brushing off his navy blue blazer and straightening his rain-soaked red tie, he orders a carrot-ginger soup, and a high-energy smile breaks across his face like a banner unfurling. With an accent that is part Californian, part Vietnamese, part top-selling real-estate agent, he asks rhetorically, ''Isn't this great?''
 By this he means Bushwick, the next new neighborhood or, more precisely, a neighborhood that is now in the sights of New York City real-estate agents and developers as the next new neighborhood. This is Bushwick as seen from the banquette at Life Cafe Nine 83, a cool place with mostly comfort food (meatloaf, fried chicken) and a few vegan options. There is also a new late-night menu, now that people in the neighborhood have started staying in the neighborhood on Saturday nights.
 Before the late-night menu, they went to the Lower East Side, for instance, where the first Life Cafe opened, back when that was the next neighborhood, in the 80's. Or they went to Williamsburg (the next neighborhood of the mid-90's), which, of course, they still do, Williamsburg only being a couple of stops away on the L train. The point is that an early stage of next-neighborhood development happens when the people who have most recently moved in begin to recreate there the place that they either wanted to be in originally or that rent increases moved them out of. It's sometimes tough to distinguish, especially now when the next-neighborhood cycles seem to be picking up speed, when people are beginning to be kicked out of neighborhoods their demographic equals haven't even heard about yet. 
 Though people are now hearing about Bushwick. ''The neighborhood's definitely, as they call it, up and coming,'' says Roody Hyacinthe, an agent with Fillmore Real Estate who sells in Brooklyn. ''I remember two or three years ago, when houses were coming on the market, we were giving them away.'' They're not giving them away anymore.
 ''You will see,'' says Le.
 Naturally for Tom Le, as for real-estate agents and real-estate buyers and renters everywhere, Bushwick's hotness is, first of all, about location. And in New York, location starts out as having to do with subway lines -- in this case the L train. The L train is connected to Manhattan, the island from which even next neighborhoods still ultimately derive their nextness, but in the case of Bushwick, the L train is the train that connects it to past next neighborhoods -- i.e., the Lower East Side and Williamsburg. (Until very, very recently, parts of Bushwick were referred to in real-estate listings as ''East Williamsburg,'' sometimes when it is East Williamsburg, sometimes when it isn't really because it's really Bushwick.) 
 Bushwick is roughly the shape of Vermont. Williamsburg is its neighbor to the north. On its west is Bed-Stuy, a neighborhood that, given the rising prices in Clinton Hill, the adjacent neighborhood heading farther west, toward Manhattan, is also something of a next neighborhood. (See also the Port Morris and Mott Haven neighborhoods in the Bronx.) On Bushwick's eastern border is Ridgewood, in Queens -- Ridgewood, in turn, being bordered by vast plots of parklike green that, at the moment, are zoned only for the dead.
 After location in the real-estate hotness calculus comes price, and in Bushwick the price is right -- i.e., low, or pretty low, as far as New York goes. Rents, which are rising, are around $1,400 for 1,200 square feet, at the moment -- about half what they are in Dumbo, which was a next neighborhood six or seven years ago, and perhaps at a third of what they are on the Lower East Side. Likewise, a half-million dollars won't get your phone call returned by real-estate agents in Manhattan, where the average apartment now sells for more than a million. But in Bushwick, half a million dollars can still get you a small single-family home (or could have before this article appeared). As Le says, continuing his lunch-table neighborhood tour, ''This hasn't yet been discovered.'' And by this he still means Bushwick.
 As with exploration in the Renaissance, discovered in New York real estate is a problematic concept. The old building directly across the street from Life Cafe is owned by the Baierlein family, whose ancestors have been there since around the time Mayor McClellan was elected mayor in 1903, since the first subways opened, since the Williamsburg Bridge was built and since O. Henry wrote his New York stories. The Baierleins are a remnant of the German population that came to the little village of Bushwick in the mid-1800's, the immigrant group that built the breweries of Brooklyn. In the 1920's, after the Germans discovered Bushwick, it was discovered by Italians. After World War II, when the Italians moved to the suburbs, Bushwick was discovered by Puerto Ricans. During the city's fiscal crisis, the last German breweries closed, and then riots during the blackout of 1977 nearly destroyed the neighborhood completely; by then, the Baierleins had boarded up their apartments to protect them from the fires that were raging through what was becoming a neighborhood of abandoned lots. Bushwick was discovered yet again in the 1980's by new New Yorkers from the Dominican Republic, as well as Guyana, Ecuador, Jamaica, India and China, new immigrants who moved to Bushwick not for cool restaurants but to survive in what was a civic wasteland. Most recently, in the 10 years before the opening of the Life Cafe in 2002, Bushwick was discovered by people moving to New York from Mexico. Bushwick is a Dutch word sometimes translated as ''refuge.''
 Le's discovery of Bushwick started when his own friends -- dancers and artists -- moved into lofts in the area in the 90's, lofts with no heat or water or plumbing; they used charcoal barbecues to keep warm. It was then that Le was making the transition from dance to real estate, the business of his family in California. He started with Fillmore Real Estate and became a ''top producer,'' to use the industry term. ''I told them to open an office in Williamsburg,'' he goes on. ''So when we did, people started coming into the office looking for places. They'd say my budget, for example, is $500,000. Sadly, with half a million they can't afford Williamsburg or East Williamsburg.'' And there, by East Williamsburg, he means East Williamsburg. That's when he mentions the discovery: Bushwick. Real estate is so often the business of readjusting dreams.
 Take the couple that showed up not long ago at his office. ''We were looking for Williamsburg,'' Le says, speaking real-estate-ese, a first-person plural. ''We had $700,000 to spend. One is a sculptor; the other one is also an artist, does installation. And they said, 'We'd love something we could have our studio in,' and I said: 'Well, 700 is a lot of money. We can get you a two-family. But for a studio, if you want bigger space, you may have to go farther out.' And they said: 'Fine. What do you think you have?' At that time, I had a four-family and a store, plus a warehouse in the back. This is just about a year ago. In the back is a huge warehouse with a 20-foot ceiling. They went there, and their mouths -- they just went like: 'Oh, my God! This is great!' And they got it for $650,000! It's off of Central.''
 The final factor in next-neighborhood hotness has to do with the presence of what might be broadly categorized as artists. In forest succession, leafy hardwoods like alder precede the towering softwoods like pine, and in real estate in New York, it is the artists who arrive first in a neighborhood that is about to change, especially in industrial sites, especially in large old spaces abandoned and left for dead. ''This is the story of real estate,'' Le says, ''that the artists are always pioneering.'' It is the story of SoHo, West Chelsea, Williamsburg. In this case, the first artists arrived in Bushwick in the 90's, when Bushwick's factory areas were still burning.
 ''When I moved in 1991, there was a crack-for-sex trade on my landing,'' says John Jasperse. Now Jasperse is a nationally recognized choreographer who until recently kept his studio for his dance company in Bushwick; then, he was a not yet nationally recognized young choreographer who, with three other artists, persuaded a landlord to let them renovate an abandoned loft building. ''Basically the reason we were there was because nobody wanted to be there,'' he says.
 ''It was a war zone,'' says Rob Herschenfeld, a furniture designer, who in 1996 was feeling pushed out of a rented space in Williamsburg. He bought a loft building on Boerum Street, a place that real-estate agents called East Williamsburg a few months ago (and may even be East Williamsburg) but is now called Bushwick. He did not seek out cafes at the time, not that there were any. ''We were too busy emptying out the crack addicts,'' he says. 
 Torben Giehler, a painter, showed up at the end of the 90's, renting a space in Herschenfeld's building; Herschenfeld's mother and building manager, Phyllis, approved a lease when few other people would. ''I couldn't get any credit, and Phyllis, she just liked my work and gave me the place,'' he says. He had a view of feral dogs, prostitutes and a guy who shot up heroin while driving and, as a result, ran into a couple of cars.
 Giehler's friend Jeffrey Reed, a sculptor and photographer, was there a year or two later in 2,000 square feet of raw space on the side of a construction yard, which he got for $1,200 a month. He found the streets nerve-racking. ''If you saw someone, you would start walking the other way,'' he says. ''You just assumed there wasn't any reason that anyone would be there.'' When Reed visited Giehler's space at the end of the day, they would look out the window at the view of burning cars. Once, as a long stream of gasoline made its way down the street, they suddenly realized that Reed's car was about to catch fire, but they managed to run down and move it in time.
 After artists came students, also as per the next-neighborhood cycle -- students like Cynthia Rojas, who moved in 2001, arriving from California, with her husband, Brian Lease, a classically trained vibraphone player who plays in a band called Fisherman's Xylophonic Burlesque Orchestra. For recreation, they went to the Laundromat on Flushing Avenue. ''That was it,'' she says. ''It was like camping.''
 The development of cool places kicked off in 2002, after Kathy Kirkpatrick, who founded the original Life Cafe in the 80's, moved to Bushwick, taking the first apartment she saw for rent. ''Then I looked out my window,'' she says, ''and I kept seeing hipsters. And then I thought, This looks just like the people who were living in the East Village.'' In August 2002, she opened up a restaurant, small, with just a steam table, as well as newspapers and essentials, like onions and toilet paper. ''I didn't realize the desperate desire of the community here to have a place -- the musicians and artists and the writers who needed to get out and hang,'' she says.
 A few months later, Kevin Lindamood, who had come to Bushwick a few years earlier from western Virginia, renovated an industrial building and opened a nonprofit arts-oriented space called OfficeOps. There's a movie screening room and a big kitchen for parties, as well as a new thrift shop. Sometimes Lindamood rents out the roof for weddings and other events. Sometimes those events are even attended by Williamsburgers.
 At the end of 2002, Herschenfeld built a small grocery store, Brooklyn's Natural, right near the Morgan Avenue L stop exit on Bogart Street, and one of the people working with him opened a bar around the corner, called Kings County. (Today, a rock-climbing wall decorates the spire of Herschenfeld's remodeled warehouse.)
 Since Life Cafe and Brooklyn's Natural opened, all kinds of artists and performers have come to make Bushwick home. In 2003, Jonah Bokaer, a dancer with Merce Cunningham, started Chez Bushwick, a salon for artists and performers in Herschenfeld's loft building on Boerum. ''It's a very catalytic place,'' Bokaer says. 
 For his part, L.D. Beghtol says a kind of artistic critical mass may have been reached that year. Beghtol had been living in the Baierlein family's apartments since 2000, moving there after five years in downtown Manhattan. A Village Voice art director, he is also a member of several bands and band collectives, like L.D. & the New Criticism, and sang on the Magnetic Fields' three-CD song cycle, ''69 Love Songs.'' One night in 2002, Beghtol was in Life Cafe, having a drink, when a D.J. played the song ''Lions'' by Tones on Tail, what might be called a next-next-neighborhood band. ''I thought, I can't believe I'm hearing this in my neighborhood bar,'' Beghtol said. The D.J. turned out to be the girlfriend of Jim Bentley, who had just moved to Bushwick from Chicago (seeing a likeness to the Ukranian Village in Chicago, where all the musicians hang out). Bentley runs the Fort, a neighborhood recording studio, and now labels the projects he produces with Beghtol and others with the stamp ''Made in Bushwick.'' ''There's a lot going on here that hasn't hit the airwaves, but it will,'' Beghtol says.
 Next-neighborhood development has now reached a pivotal juncture in Bushwick. The area still won't be mistaken for the Upper West Side or even Williamsburg. There is no giant luxury supermarket; there are no dry cleaners in the warehouse district, and not many anyplace else. Crime is still bad, or really bad (the rates of violent crime are still among the highest in the city) -- last year, the local precinct reported 15 murders, 40 rapes, 467 robberies and 399 felonious assaults. And while there may not be as many cars burning in the warehouse district as there used to be, the streets still feel desolate.
 But Bushwick is now definitely in the next stage. In May 2004, the neighborhood got its first video store-cafe, the Archive. Northeast Kingdom, the latest artist-affiliated restaurant, opened in October 2005, started by two Vermont natives currently living in Williamsburg proper. In the past year, luxury condos started showing up for $400,000. And there is even a festival -- a festival that uses an acronym, acronyms seeming to be the linchpin of the real-estate business. Late last summer, Ruth Garon, who coordinates arts events, arrived in Bushwick for the very first time, after moving from Tel Aviv to Manhattan. ''I was having a crisis with New York,'' she says. ''And it was the first time I felt a sort of community.'' Four months later, she was inspired to organize the Bushwick Art Project, or BAP, a neighborhood happening of video V.J.'s and D.J.'s and film and dance and live music. Each time Garon held a meeting in her Cook Street loft, she noticed that more and more artists came. She also noticed that local residents began to resist an art festival. ''Some people were suspicious, and they said the people from Manhattan will come and everything will be expensive,'' she recalls. ''But after a while, they saw that we were working from a pure place.''
 Perhaps those most affected by a neighborhood's nextness are the people who are already living there, the people who have been living there for years and are not necessarily looking for a place to install a video-dance piece but are trying to live, maybe even raise children. In this case, these are the people living in what a real-estate agent might at this moment be calling Deep Bushwick, that place with tired but well-swept row houses along Knickerbocker Avenue or in and around Wyckoff Avenue, another old commercial strip. If you follow Tom Le as he tours around Bushwick in his car, he will stop you on a street of two-family row houses and get out and point around and say how great they are, as investment opportunities. ''One of the most wonderful things about Bushwick is that it is a wonderful established family neighborhood,'' he says. ''You can drive up and down the streets in Bushwick and you see families out there.''
 This neighborhood of families survives on some of the lowest incomes in the city; Bushwick's median household income is about $22,000. One-fifth of the neighborhood is on public assistance. Bushwick also has foreclosure rates four times higher than the city average. Meanwhile, almost 40 percent of the neighborhood pay more than 60 percent of their incomes on housing, according to a report by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. A neighborhood survey found that 69 percent live with cockroaches, 47 percent with rats or mice, 30 percent with mold; the rate of hospital visits for asthma is four times the city average. Sometimes -- for people who are not on public assistance and live in a city where the highest-earning families have nine times the income of the lowest -- the rising rents are pushing tenants to buy homes they can't afford.
 Angel Vera has lived in Bushwick for 14 years. Originally from Ecuador, he is an organizer with a community group called Make the Road by Walking, on Grove Street, near the intersection of Myrtle and Broadway -- an area that was nearly destroyed during the rioting and looting of the citywide blackout in 1977. Last year, Make the Road organized the workers at discount-sneaker and apparel stores to get them the minimum wage and benefits. Still, the neighborhood feels on the verge: a little Latin American music store is closed, and the local credit union almost got priced out of an affordable office. Construction workers carry new Sheetrock into recently emptied apartments. ''There are a lot of landlords who are evicting whole buildings lately,'' Vera says. ''People move here because somewhere else is more expensive. That's the system. This automatically puts low-income people in danger.''
 But it's not just the low-income people. Maybe it's because the next-neighborhood cycle turns so quickly now or maybe it was always the case, but in the Bushwick that is about to happen, artists are already being kicked out, before more than even a handful of new home buyers get to live alongside them. ''It begs the question, Is New York just going to consume itself?'' says John Jasperse, who was kicked out of his loft space last year when his landlord began to convert his studio space into condos. ''Because the identity of it as a place of cultural expression seems less and less possible. I've really seen the ecology of the place change. And, yes, it's safer and it's cleaner, and, yeah, there are some individual artists who are really fighting the fight. But they're also getting slammed, and you can't expect that the fight is going to constantly repeat itself. It's going to take some kind of responsible developer or some action by the government, because we can't just be making money, money, money. If it's just left to market economics, then everywhere is just going to be brokers on Wall Street.''
 Back at lunch, Tom Le works to keep things positive. ''There's that horrible word, gentrification, but it's not all bad,'' he says. And he talks about his own plan to assuage the harshness of the market, which is mostly a plan for assuaging the hardships on artists. He dreams of helping artists invest in real estate, of opening an artists' studio in Bushwick himself, with an upstate affiliate perhaps. He speaks of the trends in terms of unstoppable natural forces. ''The machine keeps going,'' he says, ''and it's not the developers, it's not the Realtors. It's the demand that keeps the machine going, and you have to invest so that you are ready when the next transformation occurs. We can ride the wave or get kicked out.''
 But mostly Le talks about how things are really happening in the neighborhood, pricewise. On the weekend, he will run an ad: ''Vacant 6-family in Bushwick, brownstone 26 x 70, 1 block from train and shopping in the next hot neighborhood, ideal development or condo conversion. $849K.''
 ''Three or six people can come in there, renovate it and have a wonderful community there,'' he says. ''It's on Bushwick, right off Broadway, which is great.''
 Even in the past few weeks, housing prices in the neighborhood have increased. Buildings are even flipping. Le sold a building on Chauncey Street, off beat-up Bushwick Avenue, for $500,000, which the owner bought for just over $300,000 a year or so ago. And then there are the condo conversions -- a 16-unit condo conversion off Central Avenue, a few subway stops from Williamsburg and just a few minutes from Manhattan, with private parking and outdoor space at $400 a square foot -- a real deal, even if prospective buyers might be a little nervous when they first see it, at least until they see the video store and the place to buy organic yogurt.
 After he finished his soup, Le set off to see a client. But he e-mailed later to check in, because since he left dance, real estate is, as he says, ''my life seven days a week.''
 ''As you can see, Bushwick is very dynamic,'' he wrote. ''Should you need any more assistance or you are ever in need to chat about exciting new neighborhoods or to discuss new places to hang out, please don't hesitate to give me a shout.''


(Illustration by Leif Parsons)

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1 John Jasperse
2 Make the Road by Walking
3 Life Cafe
4 OfficeOps
5 Brooklyn's Natural
6 The Fort
7 Kings County
8 Tom Le
9 Chez Bushwick
10 The Morgan Avenue L stop at Bogart Street
11 Local talent
 12 Ruth Garon. (Photographs by Jessica Dimmock)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SEDANS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); TRENDS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); PLUMBING SUPPLY STORES (68%); MEAT FREE DIETS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); RELIGION (53%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (53%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Social Conditions and Trends

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; Bushwick (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



99 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS: VOWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Priya Sachdev and Vikram Chatwal 

BYLINE: By LOLA OGUNNAIKE; Hari Kumar contributed reporting from New Delhi for this article.

 BODY:
IT was far from a simple wedding. In fact, the ceremonies of Vikram Chatwal, a jet-setting hotelier and actor, and Priya Sachdev, a model and actress and former investment banker, lasted 10 days and was spread across three cities in India. It was a multimillion-dollar celebration, during which 600 guests from 26 countries were ferried around on chartered jets. 
 ''A lot of my friends had never been there so I really wanted to show them the country,'' Mr. Chatwal, 34, said. ''So we started in Bombay, which is called the gateway to India, and then we moved to Udaipur and then on to Delhi.'' 
It was only fitting that Mr. Chatwal, a son of Sant Singh Chatwal who founded the Bombay Palace restaurants and the Hampshire Hotels and Resorts chain, would have a fabulous blowout, one that was attended by boldfaced American names like Bill Clinton, the model Patricia Velasquez and a coterie of Indian dignitaries and the spiritual guru Deepak Chopra.
 Mr. Chatwal, who has been referred to in The New York Observer and other publications as the ''turban cowboy'' (Sikh tradition requires that hair be covered), has been a permanent fixture on the New York nightlife scene, attending the city's hottest events and dating catwalkers like Gisele Bundchen. (Mr. Chatwal has a letter ''G'' tattooed on one arm, which he said he did, in part, for her.)
 He admits he was a playboy. ''I was just enjoying life and friends and, well, being a bit of a hedonist,'' he said. 
 But that all changed three years ago when Mr. Chatwal met Ms. Sachdev, a graduate of the London School of Economics, at a dinner in India organized by Queenie Dhody, a socialite there. Ms. Dhody's husband, Raja Dhody, spotted her at a party and was convinced that Ms. Sachdev, who hails from a prominent family with holdings that include an automobile dealership and an apparel export company, and Mr. Chatwal would make a perfect couple. 
 ''She has the perfect mix of modern and traditional values,'' Ms. Dhody said of Ms. Sachdev. ''She's not from a hick town. She's well-educated.'' 
 It wasn't love at first sight, said Mr. Chatwal, who starred in a film called ''One Dollar Curry,'' ''but there was an instant chemical reaction that night. I was taken by her voice, which is very soft, and I love her laugh. When she laughs it just makes me laugh.''
 That evening the two exchanged numbers, and Mr. Chatwal invited Ms. Sachdev, who is the eldest of four and dabbles in painting and sculpture, out for dinner the following evening at Olives, a popular nouveau continental restaurant in Mumbai. She said yes. ''There was definitely a spark at that dinner,'' she said, giggling. 
 He returned to the United States, to oversee the development of his Midtown hotels, Dream and Time, and she remained in India, modeling in the Indian editions of Cosmopolitan and Elle magazines and appearing in her first Bollywood film, ''Neal 'n' Nikki.'' Despite their hectic schedules, the two stayed in constant contact. Text messages led to extensive e-mail exchanges, which led to even more extensive phone conversations. ''We spoke everyday,'' Mr. Chatwal said, ''sometimes for two or three hours.'' Ms. Sachdev said, ''I started falling for him over the phone, which was nice because I feel like I really got to know him.'' 
 The couple soon began accumulating frequent flier miles. ''We would meet in London,'' Ms. Sachdev said. ''It was so exciting.''
 Even though the two had been dating for only a few months, once their parents discovered the burgeoning relationship, the pressure began to mount, Mr. Chatwal said.
 ''My father is quite conservative and religious, and he's been wanting me to get married since I was 15,'' he said of his parents' desire to see him settled in an arranged marriage. 
 ''It was a big deal for them,'' Ms. Sachdev said, referring to Mr. Chatwal's parents' reaction to their relationship, ''because up until that point Vikram hadn't really dated any Indian girls.'' 
 Despite their families' eagerness, the couple continued to move at their own pace. Then, in December 2004, Mr. Chatwal, who was in India for a film festival, asked Ms. Sachdev to marry him. ''He proposed to me at a temple, so I couldn't go crazy,'' she said. ''I couldn't scream or jump and hug him because I had to be composed. There were priests around.''
 The couple's multicity celebration finally took them to New Delhi, where on Feb. 18, Mr. Chatwal climbed on a white horse and led a half-mile procession to the Taj Palace Hotel. There he was greeted by the bride's family in a traditional welcoming ceremony. 
 The next day in New Delhi, they were married in a Sikh ceremony before a group of guests, that included India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. 
 The Sunday wedding date was chosen by several of the astrologists and gurus with whom Mr. Chatwal had consulted. ''I believe in numbers and signs,'' he said, something he shares with Ms. Sachdev. She, however, wasn't too keen on Mr. Chatwal's passion for tattoos. He has 10. 
 Would he tattoo her initials on his body? ''I don't want him to,'' Ms. Sachdev said. ''I'm very superstitious, and I think it's bad luck. You don't have to show your love by tattooing it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the Vows column last Sunday, about the marriage of Priya Sachdev and Vikram Chatwal in New Delhi, misstated the nature of the ceremony. It was a Sikh ceremony, not Hindu.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DELHI, INDIA, FEB. 18: -- The couple, top, after their Hindu ceremony. Above, a turmeric paste is applied in a prewedding ritual. (Photographs by Amit Bhargava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (77%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); RESORTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); PAINTING (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) Weddings and Engagements

PERSON: DEEPAK CHOPRA (57%); GISELE BUNDCHEN (50%) Priya Sachdev; Vikram Chatwal; Lola Ogunnaike

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) New Delhi (India)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



100 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: An Entrepreneur Practicing What She Teaches

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN Malla Haridat was a high school senior in Yonkers in the early 1990's, her mother offered to buy her a car. Ms. Haridat appreciated the offer, she recalled recently, but suggested another use for the money: to buy a half-dozen soda and snack vending machines. 
 Ms. Haridat then persuaded owners of small companies to let her place her machines at their sites as amenities for their workers. Through the rest of high school and into her sophomore year at Columbia, she said, she traveled to the companies in borrowed cars every few days to restock the machines with merchandise that she had bought wholesale, and to collect the coins and dollar bills. She said that she did not remember how much she made from this sideline business, but that it was ''good money.'' 
For Ms. Haridat, 31, who graduated from Columbia with a political science degree in 1997, and who had no close relatives who ran businesses, the vending venture was her first experience with entrepreneurship. She started more businesses while in college, including desktop publishing and selling goods at street fairs. During and after college, she worked for other employers, teaching young people the basics of starting and running a business. 
 Then, five years ago, Ms. Haridat established New Designs for Life, a one-woman enterprise that provides workshops and classes in setting up and operating a business, covering topics like writing a business plan, marketing a product and handling a budget. 
 She also offers sessions for people who are interested not in starting their own business but in being hired and promoted by other employers. In those sessions, too, Ms. Haridat focuses on ''thinking like an entrepreneur,'' saying that this can help employees market their skills to get good jobs and get ahead in them.
 One impetus for starting New Designs for Life, Ms. Haridat said, came during an entrepreneurship course she was teaching in 2001 while working for a youth development organization. A high school student challenged her.
 ''He said, 'Why should I listen to you?' '' she recalled. '' 'You're telling me to start my own business, to take these risks, and you're collecting a paycheck every two weeks.' '' She responded that she had in fact started and run businesses, but the question made her think. She decided to resume practicing what she was teaching -- and not just as a sideline.
 Ms. Haridat's workshops and classes have been part of programs sponsored by universities, including Columbia University through its Center for Career Education; by groups of alumni from various colleges; and by nonprofit organizations like A Better Chance, which refers academically talented middle and high school students from minority groups for possible placement in highly rated schools, and the Grace Institute in Manhattan, which provides employment and business training to low-income women.
 She described an exercise in her class at Grace. She has a student demonstrate before her classmates how she would sell a pen to one of them. ''Then I tell her to put a tie on -- I bring ties to the class -- and tell her to sell it from the perspective of a man, to think how a man would do this.'' Often, Ms. Haridat said, the women are more aggressive and ask for higher prices in the second pitch, illustrating why it is important to get people ''to think outside the box.''
 Ms. Haridat's continuing challenge in making New Designs for Life a success could be a case study for her students. She said that in 2002, the company's first full year, its revenue was less than $10,000, which steadily increased to about $60,000 last year and could reach $100,000 this year. She keeps expenses down by working from an office at her home in the Bronx and at clients' offices.
 Ms. Haridat got a $10,000 boost last year when she was among the winners in New York City's annual Small Business Awards. She is using some of the money to expand her Web site, newdesignsforlife.com. The contest honors small businesses owned by women as well as small businesses owned by men that are judged to have benefited women. Eligibility rules and applications for this year's contest are available at nyc.gov/women or through the city's 311 information number.
 By the way, Ms. Haridat finally did get a car of her own. She bought one in 1999.


GRAPHIC: Photo: NOTHING VENTURED, NOTHING GAINED -- Malla Haridat, standing, with staff members of a client group for which she has taught business skills to bright minority students. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VENDING MACHINES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (53%); DESKTOP PUBLISHING (52%) Small Business

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Malla Haridat

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



101 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Clean Air 

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Environmental regulators tend to see their world through the prism of science. But these days, the science dominating their world view is not biology or chemistry, but economics. 
 Since environmental regulation costs money, imposing or tightening regulation has become increasingly difficult.
Take, for example, the Environmental Protection Agency's proposed standards in December for industrial and vehicular soot. 
 Largely ignoring its panel of scientific advisers, the E.P.A. proposed new standards about 10 weeks ago that were not as strong as many environmental groups had wanted. These groups have accused the administration of ignoring the latest science and caving in to industry groups, which want to keep the proposed standards as close to current levels as possible to avoid spending money on new technology to control pollution.
 For their part, agency officials said those changes were intended to improve air quality in urban centers but would ignore agricultural and mining areas, because studies had not proved that soot from farms and mines affected human health. 
 Six weeks after making the proposals, the agency announced that some of the most polluted counties could have up to 15 years to make the grade, a long time by regulatory standards. FELICITY BARRINGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MINES & MINING (66%) Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Felicity Barringer; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



102 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: 50 Is Just a Short Stop From 40

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

 BODY:
The Mets have in Julio Franco a first baseman and pinch hitter who will turn 48 this summer. At 43, Roger Clemens might just be the best pitcher in baseball. Last year, Sean Landeta, the Philadelphia Eagles punter, had the best season of his career at 43, if the measure is yards per punt. Is the day coming when a 50-year-old can compete at the highest professional level in one of the major sports?
 ''I think that's entirely possible,'' said Dr. Carl Foster, the president of the American College of Sports Medicine. ''It's just a matter of time. The forces are already acting together to make it happen. It will just take an individual, someone wanting to do it, and doing what it takes to make it happen.'' 
A 50-year-old still playing professional sports was once unthinkable, but with the playing fields crowded with 40-year-olds, age limits in sports obviously aren't what they used to be. 
 Foster, also a professor in the Department of Exercise and Sport Science at the University of Wisconsin at La Crosse, says there are a number of reasons older athletes seem to be prospering at the professional level. They include improved training techniques and nutrition and advances that have been made in treating injuries. Doctors and scientists have figured out how to keep the typical athlete going longer, and they are getting better at it all the time.
 ''Athletes are now able to have surgeries that allow them to keep participating and get through injuries of attrition and wear and tear that, before, they couldn't get through,'' said Dr. Stephen Nicholas, the director of the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma. 
 Money is a factor, Foster says. Salaries are so exorbitant in professional sports these days that there will always be aging athletes who will do whatever it takes in training and conditioning to keep the paychecks coming in.
 ''The economic incentives are such that it's hard to say no,'' he said. ''Think about Roger Clemens, who got $18 million to pitch last year. For anyone else, to make $100,000 a year, which is a decent salary, they'd make $4 million for a 40-year career. And his job isn't exactly an onerous one.''
 As long as his arm remains in good shape, a baseball pitcher can get by without much speed and agility, skills that start to fade with age. That may not be the case for players in other sports, like basketball. In modern times, the oldest player to appear in an N.B.A. game was Robert Parish, who retired in 1997 at 43. 
 ''The hardest sport on an older player may be basketball,'' said Carmen Chen, a physical therapist based in Manhattan who specializes in sports injuries. ''There is a lot of jumping and twisting and quick, subtle movements involved. When you get older, the body doesn't react as fast as it used to.''
 Franco, already the oldest position player in the history of baseball, has said he wants to play when he is 50. Considering that his batting average was a solid .275 last season, he could do it. The key will be remaining injury-free, which gets harder with age.
 ''But we are learning all the time,'' Chen said. ''Many years ago, we worked with the Islanders, who were having a rash of groin injuries. We figured out how to prevent them and are starting to have the same sort of success in other areas. A 50-year-old player? It's possible, just as long as they know how to take care of themselves.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about professional athletes competing to age 50 misspelled the name of a physical therapist and rendered her title incompletely. She is Carmen Cheng, not Chen, and she is the supervisor of physical therapy at the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos49 YEARS OLD: Martina NavratilovaOldest player in professional tennis and oldest ever Grand Slam champion.47 YEARS OLD: Julio FrancoNew York Mets Oldest player in Major League Baseball.44 YEARS OLD: Chris CheliosDetroit Red Wings Oldest player in the National Hockey League and captain of the U.S. hockey team at the Turin Olympics.43 YEARS OLD: Doug FlutieNew England Patriots The National Football League's oldest player on an opening-day roster last season.39 YEARS OLD: Dikembe MutomboHouston Rockets Oldest player in the National Basketball Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS INJURIES (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS MEDICINE (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%) Athletics and Sports; Age, Chronological

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (84%); AMERICAN COLLEGE OF SPORTS MEDICINE (83%); DETROIT RED WINGS (59%); EDMONTON OILERS (59%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (59%); DALLAS STARS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%) American College of Sports Medicine

PERSON: Bill Finley; Carl (Dr) Foster

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); TURIN, ITALY (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



103 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: What Does It Mean to Be Educated?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks quotes Peter Beinart of The New Republic as saying that Harvard students often graduate ''without the kind of core knowledge that you'd expect from a good high school student,'' and that required courses can be ''a hodgepodge of arbitrary, esoteric classes.'' 
 But Harvard students are in most cases outstanding high school students, so they arrive with at least the core knowledge expected of a good high school student.
As an undergraduate at Harvard, I took some wonderful core classes on a hodgepodge of subjects: the history of China, the Civil War, medicine and society in America, modern Jewish literature, medieval literature and culture, economics, justice (a philosophy course, where, yes, we read the ancient Greeks) and chamber music.
 These courses were not arbitrary. They piqued my interest, and helped me develop a variety of critical thinking and writing skills. These types of classes are what a liberal arts education is about.

Sarah Resnick
Berkeley, Calif., March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); CORE CURRICULUM (88%); LITERATURE (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CLASSICS (73%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (52%) Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

PERSON: Sarah Resnick; Peter Beinart; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



104 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Commander Meets With Iraqi Leaders on Impasse Over Premier

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, March 4 

 BODY:
The top American military commander in the Middle East met in Baghdad on Saturday with senior Iraqi politicians, and appeared to press American demands for a quick resolution of the dispute over the post of prime minister in the new government.
 Gen. John P. Abizaid, head of the United States Central Command, conferred with President Jalal Talabani and Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari, key figures in the impasse.
Since the results of the December election were formally ratified last month, American officials in Baghdad and Washington have cautioned against delay in forming the new government, saying a political vacuum would embolden insurgents seeking to disrupt the American-sponsored drive to install a democratically chosen government.
 General Abizaid avoided commenting directly on the dispute, which has centered on Mr. Jaafari's nomination by a Shiite coalition to continue in the post of prime minister, the job he has held since a transitional government took office last April. 
 But after meeting with Mr. Talabani, a leader in the loose alliance of Kurdish, Sunni Arab and secular groups that oppose Mr. Jaafari, the general told reporters that success in defeating the insurgents rested on Iraqis uniting behind an inclusive government.
 ''The situation in Iraq is in the hands of the Iraqi people,'' he said. ''A government of national unity must be formed to bring the country together.''
 Responding to the calls for faster political progress, Mr. Talabani told reporters he would summon the new Parliament into session for the first time before March 12, meeting a constitutional deadline that was deferred after a surge of sectarian violence last month. 
 The Parliament will eventually have to approve the new government, including the choice of president and prime minister, but its opening session is likely to be taken up with less contentious matters, including the choice of a parliamentary speaker.
 Another priority for General Abizaid appeared to have been the need for strong action to curb political militias, a demand that gained fresh urgency amid sectarian violence that followed the bombing last month of a Shiite shrine in Samarra, north of Baghdad, and Shiite reprisal attacks on at least 30 Sunni mosques.
 American commanders say that many Shiite reprisals were carried out by the Mahdi Army, a militia loyal to Moktada al-Sadr, a volatile Shiite cleric, and that in some places, including Baghdad, units of the American-trained Iraqi Army stood aside, clearing the way for the militia fighters to carry out the attacks.
 Mr. Talabani's security adviser, Wafiq al-Samarraie, said after the meeting with General Abizaid that Mr. Talabani had agreed on the need for militia groups to lay down their arms. For Kurdish leaders like Mr. Talabani, who control much of northern Iraq through militia groups known as the pesh merga, the step would be a major concession.
 But Mr. Samarraie said Mr. Talabani's position was unequivocal. ''It is a clear and open call for the brothers who carry weapons,'' he said.
 At a separate news conference, Bayan Jabr, the interior minister, who has been accused by Sunnis of allowing Shiite death squads to operate within police ranks, said he had sent a letter to all militia groups asking them to disband, as required by the new Iraqi Constitution.
 Mr. Jabr said that he had allocated $10 million to a fund to help militia members find new jobs, including positions in the new army and police forces.
 General Abizaid's visit coincided with signs that the disputing Iraqi groups might be working for a resolution to the political standoff. Although the Shiite bloc won 130 of the 275 parliamentary seats, the Constitution effectively requires a two-thirds majority to choose the prime minister, giving the Kurdish, Sunni and secular parties, with about 140 seats among them, a de facto veto.
 A delegation from Mr. Jaafari's Dawa party met on Saturday in Najaf with Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the country's most powerful Shiite religious leader. The Dawa officials emerged with what they presented as an endorsement of Mr. Jaafari. But Mr. Sistani, who opposes a direct clerical role in government, made no statement.
 The possibility of compromise over Mr. Jaafari's nomination appeared to grow with the announcement by President Talabani that he had spoken by telephone with Mr. Sadr, the Shiite cleric whose parliamentary bloc backed Mr. Jaafari as the Shiite alliance's choice for prime minister.
 Mr. Talabani said the two men had agreed that the main Kurdish parties should send a delegation to discuss the issue with Mr. Sadr. 
 The direct contact between Mr. Talabani and Mr. Sadr was a surprise, considering the ambiguous and often incendiary political role played by Mr. Sadr, who has twice led armed uprisings against American troops and made plain his contempt for politicians like Mr. Talabani who have worked closely with the Americans.
 ''We appreciated his gesture,'' Mr. Talabani said. ''We have been hoping for a long time to consolidate our relations with Mr. Sadr.''
 Shiite officials have suggested in recent days that the groups opposing Mr. Jaafari might have taken their position more in the hope of negotiating for a stronger voice in a Jaafari-led government than with a realistic expectation of unseating him.
 Mr. Talabani hinted at this possible tactic on Saturday when he told reporters that the Sunni Arab and Kurdish groups opposing Mr. Jaafari ''want to be real partners in the government, not ministers without a voice.''
 ''We want a real share of power,'' he said, ''and a role in drawing up domestic, foreign and security policies.''
 Mr. Talabani spoke in a conciliatory tone of Mr. Jaafari, who has been heavily criticized for irresolute leadership since becoming prime minister, both by rival Iraqi politicians and, privately, by senior American officials. After the eruption of sectarian violence last month, in which hundreds of Iraqis died, Mr. Jaafari was accused of being slow in ordering the curfews that eventually curbed the violence.
 ''The objection is not to Mr. Jaafari personally,'' Mr. Talabani said. ''We respect him. He has been our friend for 25 years. The issue here is the need for a national unity government that will truly unify all the parties.''
 The political maneuverings occurred on a day of relatively little violence. At least 13 people were killed in insurgent bombing and mortar attacks, according to the Interior Ministry, including seven people who died when a mortar destroyed a minibus across the road from a market in the Diyala Bridge neighborhood of southern Baghdad, and two Shiite worshipers who were killed by gunmen as they left a mosque in the northern city of Kirkuk.
 [Early Sunday, The Associated Press reported, Interior Ministry commandos stormed a Sunni mosque in western Baghdad, killing three people -- including the mosque's imam and his son -- in a 25-minute gun battle, the police said. The cause of the clash was not known, nor was the name of the Sunni cleric who was killed.
 [American forces blocked off the area after the exchange of fire, which also wounded seven people, said Lt. Maitham Abdul Rezzaq of the police.]

Qaeda Deputy Calls for Attacks
 DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, March 4 (Reuters) -- Al Qaeda's deputy leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri, called on Muslims to attack the West, in an audiotape posted on the Internet on Saturday, urging strikes similar to those in recent years in New York, London and Madrid.
 In a video of his remarks televised by Al Jazeera, he also urged the Islamist militant group Hamas not to recognize peace deals signed by the Palestinian Authority with Israel.
 He also called on Muslims to boycott countries where satirical cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad had been published, including Denmark, Norway, France and Germany, and said that Muslims should prevent the West from ''stealing Muslims' oil.''
 Muslims have to ''inflict losses on the crusader West, especially to its economic infrastructure with strikes that would make it bleed for years,'' Mr. Zawahiri said. ''We have to prevent the crusader West from stealing the Muslims' oil, which is being drained in the biggest robbery in history.'' 
 It was not clear if the tape was made before the failed Qaeda attack last month on a Saudi oil facility.
 Commenting on Mr. Zawahiri's remarks, a Hamas official, Osama Hamdan, said the group had no intention of recognizing the deals with Israel.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Iraqi man, injured in a bombing that killed a girl, cried in pain yesterday as he was treated. At least 13 people died yesterday in attacks. (Photo by Mohammed Adnan/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); TERRORISM (75%); BOMBINGS (73%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Kurds; Islam; Politics and Government; Terrorism

PERSON: JALAL TALABANI (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) John F Burns; John P (Gen) Abizaid; Jalal (Pres) Talabani; Ibrahim Al- (Prime Min) Jaafari

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



105 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Virgin Islands Are at Center Of Dispute On Tax Break

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The United States Virgin Islands and several wealthy financiers who own homes there are working to persuade Congress to drop a new requirement that at least half the year be spent in the islands in order to get a tax break intended to spur their economic development.
 The economic development program allows an effective federal income tax rate of just 3.5 percent for bona fide residents of the Virgin Islands. It has drawn wealthy Americans from the mainland and kindled an economic boom. 
 But the program, whose benefits have been available for decades, has also allowed some homeowners who spend little time in the islands to avoid federal taxes estimated at $400 million. At least one person, who lived in the islands less than one month a year and nonetheless claimed the program's benefits for income he generated selling insurance in Massachusetts, has pleaded guilty to tax fraud.
 The new requirement, adopted by the Internal Revenue Service under legislation enacted by Congress in 2004, is intended to crack down on the practice. The legislation followed articles that exposed how little time some of the beneficiaries spent in the islands and how little of their income was derived there. 
 The program has long required individuals who benefit from the tax break, as well as companies that do so, to commit $100,000 of capital, employ 10 local residents, buy goods and services from local suppliers and promise to make charitable donations. But until Jan. 31, when the new restriction took effect, there was no explicit residency requirement; the I.R.S. instead used a ''facts and circumstances'' test to assess eligibility. As a result of the change, individuals claiming the benefit must now prove that they have spent 183 days in the Virgin Islands during the year.
 In response, the Virgin Islands Tax Working Group, which represents people who benefit from the break, paid $200,000 last year for lobbyists, according to records compiled by Political Money Line, a nonpartisan campaign finance tracking service. At least one senator, Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, has been saluted in the islands at a fund-raiser on his behalf attended by several beneficiaries of the program. 
 The government of the Virgin Islands is just as eager as the beneficiaries to have the new restriction eased. Donna M. Christensen, the islands' delegate to Congress, acknowledged problems with the program in written testimony submitted at a hearing held Wednesday by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which oversees the Interior Department and thus territorial affairs. But she asked committee members to lobby for a lightening of the residency requirement.
 Ms. Christensen, describing the rule as onerous, wants Congress to reduce the requirement to 122 days over three years, or an average of a little more than a month annually.
 ''This is the No. 1 issue for us in terms of our economic prosperity going forward,'' she said. 
 The rule's opponents, whose efforts were first reported in The New York Sun, have asked Senator Michael D. Crapo, an Idaho Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, to propose an amendment in tax legislation now being negotiated. In a letter to Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who heads the energy committee, Mr. Crapo said the specific tax rules governing beneficiaries of the program had been changed without legislative hearings and without consulting the Virgin Islands government.
 ''As a result, we now see that the changes may have gone too far,'' Mr. Crapo wrote. ''While the bad actors have been successfully removed from the program, these changes are also disrupting legitimate businesses and causing fiscal hardship.''
 Chris Matthews, a spokesman for Senator Smith, who sits on both the energy committee and the Finance Committee, confirmed that the senator attended a fund-raiser for him in the Virgin Islands last year. Mr. Matthews said Mr. Smith had subsequently chatted with some of his colleagues about his concerns that the tighter regulations were hurting law-abiding businesses.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a dispute over a reduced rate of income taxation for Americans who own homes in the United States Virgin Islands misstated a proposal for easing the residency requirement for homeowners, which is now 183 days a year. The proposal would reduce the requirement to an average of 122 days a year over three years, not a total of 122 days over three years.
An article on Sunday about a dispute over a reduced rate of income taxation for Americans who own homes in the United States Virgin Islands misstated a proposal for easing the residency requirement for homeowners, which is now 183 days a year. The proposal would reduce the requirement to an average of 122 days a year over three years, not a total of 122 days over three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); TRENDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); CHARITIES (70%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%) Taxation; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Residence Requirements; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Economic Conditions and Trends; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%) Virgin Islands Tax Working Group

PERSON: GORDON SMITH (58%); DONNA M CHRISTENSEN (58%) Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Virgin Islands (US)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



106 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Commanders Recast Old Militias of Colombia as Syndicates for Drugs and Extortion

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: PIVIJAY, Colombia 

 BODY:
As some 23,000 paramilitary fighters have disarmed here over the last two years, their top commanders have declared their intentions to play a role in politics. 
 But signs are emerging that the role is a dark one, as commanders use bribery and intimidation to control local lawmakers and even blocs of representatives in the Congress while they reshape their militias into criminal networks that traffic in cocaine, extort businesses and loot local governments.
Warnings of these activities have come from sources as varied as Colombian politicians, the United Nations, Western diplomats and human rights groups. Colombia's Supreme Court has begun investigating ties between paramilitaries and Congress, and some parties have begun expelling representatives with links to the groups. 
 The demobilization of the far-right antiguerrilla paramilitaries -- a disarmament far larger than those that ended Central America's wars in the 1990's -- is part of a deal the government had hoped would bring peace to areas long tormented by war and drug trafficking. But there is little oversight of the process, and no mechanism to guarantee that the militias are completely dismantled. 
 ''Usually the goal of a peace process is to get armed combatants to lay down arms and enter politics,'' said Cynthia Arnson, director of the Latin America program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington. ''It's another thing to do it through threats and extortion and bribery and the other ways that they've used to influence politics.''
 Here along the Caribbean coast, the power of the paramilitaries and the methodical tactics they used to take political control were evident in 2002, in the last congressional elections. The victors won in abnormal landslides of up to 95 percent of the vote. Mayors and councilmen were also swept in, particularly in this state, Magdalena, where candidates for local offices ran unopposed in 14 of 30 towns. 
 Dieb Maloof, 41, who was re-elected to his Senate seat with 84 percent of the vote in this cattle town, denied any manipulation. ''People voted for me because we did the political work,'' he said in an interview.
 But the Western diplomats and Colombian lawmakers, warning that the paramilitaries are preparing to strengthen their stranglehold, say Mr. Maloof, a handful of other members of Congress and some mayors met secretly in December with Rodrigo Tovar, a paramilitary warlord, to lay the groundwork for an electoral sweep on March 12. ''In those meetings, they discussed what they were going to do, who was going to be a candidate, what strategies they would use, even whom they would threaten,'' said Cesar Gaviria, a former president who leads the opposition Liberal Party.
 And El Tiempo, the largest paper, has reported meetings between paramilitaries and members of Congress in two other states. The members have denied the accusations.
 In January, Mr. Maloof was expelled from his party, as were four other members of Congress. The five belonged to two parties closely tied to President Alvaro Uribe.
 In February, two other representatives who openly expressed sympathy for paramilitary commanders were removed from a third party. 
 President Uribe, who remains popular in Colombia for battling the rebels, has hailed the expulsions, saying the government will not ''allow illegal funding, the bribing or intimidation of leaders or voters, or the participation of violent groups in the political campaigns.'' 
 And Vice President Francisco Santos, while admitting problems, said the demobilization was working. ''Success comes at the end,'' he said, ''but I think it is on the right path.''
 The expelled members of Congress, however, have simply shifted their membership to other conservative movements and are expected to easily win office. By pulling the levers of power behind the scenes, said Gustavo Duncan, a security analyst finishing a book about paramilitary influence in Colombian institutions, the commanders are out to achieve ambitious goals, like repealing an extradition treaty with the United States that threatens them. While the Bush administration has supported Mr. Uribe, its ambassador has warned of the manipulations of politics, and Congress has offered only token sums for the demobilization. 
 ''Some people believe that this process risks legitimizing and even institutionalizing the corrupt and illegal enterprises and the role they are playing in the economic and political life of the country,'' Tim Rieser, foreign policy aide to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and ranking member of the subcommittee on foreign operations, said after visiting Colombia in December. 
 Perhaps no Colombian state has suffered through the violence and political manipulation of the paramilitaries as much as Magdalena. The paramilitaries consolidated power by embarking on a terror campaign in the late 1990's, massacring villagers and assassinating leftist politicians and union leaders. 
 Then their supporters began to sweep into office virtually unopposed, according to an exhaustive study of voting trends by Claudia Lopez, a political analyst working for Semana magazine's Web site. 
 Some public officials here, like Pivijay's mayor, Carlos Alfonso Severini, acknowledge that paramilitaries have a strong military influence in the region. But not so in politics, he contended in an interview in his office. ''They don't choose the candidates,'' he said. ''We, the political leaders in the towns, do it.''
 But in whispers, townspeople and independent politicians talk of the top-to-bottom control of Mr. Tovar, the scion of a politically connected, land-owning family who is among the most feared paramilitaries. 
 Congressional hopefuls like Aroldo Guardiola, 50, a law professor who openly defies the paramilitaries, say Mr. Tovar's hold is so strong that he simply cannot venture into much of Magdalena to campaign. And no one expects that grip to loosen as Mr. Tovar's paramilitary fighters disarm in the coming days. 
 ''These days, we can say that democracy in Magdalena has been hijacked,'' Mr. Guardiola said. ''There are municipalities we visit, but we cannot get out into the countryside. It's a danger because what is at stake is not just your career, but your life.'' 
 In his elegant home in Barranquilla, Senator Maloof adamantly denied recent news media reports accusing him of being at a reunion where the plot to murder a prosecutor was discussed. He blamed rivals for planting stories.
 ''When you're in a country that has had 50 years of conflict, no one -- I mean no one -- can cast the first stone,'' Mr. Maloof said, saying he planned to keep running for office.
 ''If God permits it, and people want it, and we don't have to withstand more slander, then we think we will get an extraordinary vote,'' he said. ''We're so optimistic.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Dieb Maloof, campaigning for re-election on Thursday at his headquarters in Barranquilla, won in 2002 with 84 percent of the vote. (Photo by Scott Dalton for The New York Times)Map of Colombia highlighting Pivijay: Pivijay, in the Colombian state of Magdalena, where paramilitary forces have a strong influence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); COCAINE (90%); EXTORTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); ETHICS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (53%) Elections; Bribery ; Legislatures and Parliaments; Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Ethics; Extortion and Blackmail

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (54%)

PERSON: Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%) Colombia

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



107 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: When the City Is Your Boss, Your Salary Is an Open Book

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
New York City's public payroll has more people than the combined populations of Albany, Hollywood and Liechtenstein. At $29 billion, it is larger than the gross domestic product of Guatemala.
 Among the names on the payroll are 50 Bushes, 28 Clintons, 44 Nixons, 12 Gandhis and two Churchills. A Brando works at the housing authority, a Trump at transit and a Kissinger at design and construction.
And who knew there was a Municipal Water Finance Authority, let alone that half of the 19 people who work there are paid more than $90,000 a year? 
 Or that each borough has a public administrator (in addition to a borough president) who collects a $94,000 salary and has a staff? 
 These and other random insights emerge from a close reading of the civil list, a 6,685-page census of 267,000 public employees that is quietly filed away each year in the city's Records Department.
 It contains the names, salaries and agencies for most employees of the city, as well as some at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a state agency that is not part of the city budget.
 An anachronism by modern standards of electronic recordkeeping, the list has been published by the city annually since the enactment of the civil service law in 1883, when it originally included employees' home addresses. Since the 1960's, the list has been filed on microfiche, and two years ago the Records Department began putting scanned images of it online.
 Except for a handful of genealogists and connoisseurs of the civil service system, few people seem to know, or have reason to know, the civil list exists. 
 It enjoyed a rare moment in the sun last month, when an online blog posted a link to it to show the salaries of City Council staff members who had been fired by Speaker Christine C. Quinn.
 The discovery that such information was not private shocked some readers of the blog, Backroom Deal Breaker, and one posted a message calling it sickening. An anonymous city worker replied, ''It's the price we pay for being employed by the taxpayers.''
 Indeed, basic information about most employees at all levels of government, including their salaries, is generally available to reporters or members of the public, who often must endure a time-consuming process of extracting it from public information officers. Rarely is such data deposited all at once, as a matter of routine, for anyone to look at it.
 The civil list is so big -- it dwarfs that of New York's largest private employer, Citigroup, which has about 27,000 employees in the city -- and has such a lengthy pedigree that it can fairly be said to reflect the evolution of the city itself.
 ''There is a racial and ethnic mosaic within the civil service that reflects the politics of the city at various points in time,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, executive director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center.
 ''It's amazing that specializations that were established 100 years ago survive today -- the Irish cops, the Italians in the parks department, the Jewish names in social services,'' he said. ''That reflects, to some degree, the mayors who were in office at the time and what groups formed their electoral base.'' 
 Scanning the Police and Fire Department rosters from 2005, for example, finds echoes of the Tammany era, when those agencies were well-known entry points for Irish immigrants. There are 52 McCarthys and 54 O'Connors at the Police Department, far more than at any other agency; the Fire Department has the second greatest number, with 28 and 30, respectively.
 Earlier versions of the list, going back 30 to 40 years, have few Hispanic surnames compared with the current list. 
 And perhaps because of the relative newness of Hispanics in filling the ranks of the civil service system, the average salary now listed for a Rodriguez is $44,000, compared with $53,000 for a Rizzo.
 Although formalized under the state civil service law, civil lists cataloguing government employees have been around since colonial times, and were a concept imported from England, where such lists were used to keep track of payments to civilian government employees and pensioners.
 A history of New York published in the 1840's cites a civil list from 1693, which noted that ''600 pound sterling'' was set aside annually for Benjamin Fletcher, New York's ''governour in chiefe,'' while Godfredus Dellius earned 60 pounds sterling for ''teaching and converting the Indians.''
 The 1883 civil service law created rules for the hiring, firing and promotion of public employees, and was intended to clean up what was widely perceived as a corrupt, patronage-fueled system in which fealty to political bosses and family connections trumped merit. A key to the law's success was its requirement of transparency, Mr. Mollenkopf said.
 ''The fact that what people are making is public knowledge means that everybody knows where everybody else stands, so there are no secret deals,'' he said. ''It makes salary-setting less arbitrary, and if you learn that you're earning less than the standard for your peers, you can argue for more.''
 Over time, as the city payroll grew, publication of the list took on a life of its own. When the city proposed suspending it in 1943 to save $20,000 in printing costs, labor unions representing the printing trade sued, arguing that not publishing it ''would mean unemployment, distress and financial loss.''
 These days, the list is available on the records department Web site at http://www.nyc.gov/html/records/html/govpub/labor1.shtml
 The continued value of the civil list is not entirely clear, because it has failed to keep up with changes in the structure of city government. 
 Historical quirks in the legislative formation of various agencies, for example, means that the list contains records for the 47,000 employees of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, but has no records for the city's 77,000 teachers or employees of its economic development corporation.Even the rationale for publishing it is lost on some city officials. The Department of Citywide Administrative Services, whose City Record journal produces the list, is obligated by law to continue publishing it each year, said Mark Daly, a department spokesman.
 But over at the Department of Records, which maintains the city archives and has copies of the civil list going back to 1883, Deputy Commissioner Kenneth R. Cobb admitted being in the dark about why it keeps showing up at his office every April.
 ''To be honest, I don't know,'' he said. ''The City Record just keeps publishing it, and we continue to make it available.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a list that details the salaries of all 267,000 New York City employees misstated the title of Kenneth R. Cobb, an official in the Department of Records. He is the assistant commissioner, not the deputy commissioner.
An article on Sunday about a list that details the salaries of all 267,000 New York City employees misstated the title of Kenneth R. Cobb, an official in the Department of Records. He is the assistant commissioner, not the deputy commissioner.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Big Earners''The civil list discloses the earnings of public employees in New York City. Here were the largest salaries on the April 2005 list.Joel I. Klein -- Schools chancellor, Department of Education: 250,000Lawrence G. Reuter -- President, M.T.A. New York City Transit: 225,000Marc V. Shaw* -- First deputy mayor: 204,866Robert C. North Jr. -- Chief actuary, Office of the Actuary: 195,000Deborah Gallegos -- Chief investment officer, Office of the Comptroller: 195,000Thomas J. Savage -- President, M.T.A. Bus: 188,490Michael A. Lombardi -- Senior vice president, Department of Subways, N.Y.C. Transit: 186,400Antonio Perez -- President, Borough of Manhattan Community College: 178,760Regina S. Peruggi -- President, Kingsborough Community College: 178,745*No longer in this position(Source by New York City Department of Records)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); POLITICS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); ETHNICITY (68%) Wages and Salaries; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: Mike Mcintire

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); LIECHTENSTEIN (92%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



108 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Dollars Without Borders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HIRSH. 
Michael Hirsh, a senior editor in Newsweek's Washington bureau, is the author of ''At War With Ourselves: Why America Is Squandering Its Chance to Build a Better World.''

 BODY:
GLOBAL CAPITALISM
 Its Fall and Rise in the 
 Twentieth Century.
 By Jeffry A. Frieden.
 556 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $29.95.

THE GLOBAL CLASS WAR
 How America's Bipartisan Elite Lost
 Our Future -- and What It Will Take 
 to Win It Back.
 By Jeff Faux.
 292 pp. John Wiley & Sons. $27.95.
GLOBAL capitalism is an ailing system. The main question is whether the illness is curable or terminal. What has become especially worrisome in recent years is the increasingly unequal relationship between labor and capital. These two old rivals have long been at odds, of course, often violently. But there have also been extended periods of peace. 
 As Jeffry Frieden writes in his magisterial history, ''Global Capitalism,'' during the high-growth decades after World War II labor and capital existed in an uneasy but prosperous equilibrium. And during the earlier golden age of globalization before World War I, he reports, labor and capital ''worked beautifully'' together on a worldwide scale. As free trade supplanted mercantilism in the mid- to late 19th century, barriers to trade and immigration fell at roughly the same time. ''Unproductive Polish or Portuguese peasants who could not compete with Canadian and Argentine grain farmers,'' Frieden says, ''became productive urban workers in Warsaw and Lisbon or emigrated to become productive factory workers in Toronto or farmworkers on the pampas.'' Streams of investment followed.
 In the last quarter-century or so, however, capital has left labor behind to choke in the dust of those pampas. Or so Jeff Faux argues in ''The Global Class War,'' a much darker book that characterizes the present era as a struggle between a ''global governing class'' and everybody else. Faux is clearly correct that the balance of power between labor and capital has shifted dramatically. Today, investment capital moves at blinding speed, while labor still must go by boat, train and plane -- and that's if it's lucky. With much tougher immigration restrictions than existed a century ago, labor is more often confined to its home markets, waiting anxiously to see if globe-hopping capital deigns to come its way. 
 The growing power of capital explains many of the economic stories of our day: why Wall Street has the whip hand over corporate performance; why the gap between executive and worker pay has widened to record levels; why even incompetent executives enjoy golden parachutes while high-performing employees can be laid off without apology. It also explains why the American labor movement is a pitiful shadow of its former self, the victim of a ''China price'' set half a world away by a seemingly limitless supply of cheap labor. Most disturbing of all, Faux argues, this imbalance is largely America's own doing. And if we don't change, he says, it could well be our undoing. 
 How did things go wrong? Well, they didn't entirely, as Faux himself concedes. The post-cold-war period has also been one of significant global growth. The problems arose in the 1980's when neoliberals in Washington, inspired by the ideas of Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman, began promoting free markets over Keynesian ''statist'' thinking. In the new era of globalization, the prevailing ideology became, once again, the laissez-faire absolutism of the gold-standard era. 
 Yet crucially, Faux argues, this thinking was applied only abroad. ''Friedman and Hayek failed to overturn Keynes on the question of how to run a national economy,'' he writes. Not only did Democrats and Republicans alike continue to practice Keynesianism at home, they exceeded its prescriptions. Even Ronald Reagan, the enemy of big government, ran record deficits in order to support Franklin Roosevelt's welfare state, and George W. Bush has followed suit. Overseas, meanwhile, the free marketeers wrote the rules of the World Trade Organization. The result was an ominous combination: an American economy made less competitive by mounting deficits at home, but cast into a brutal, Social Darwinist environment abroad.
 Faux's descriptions are often sound, but his criticisms are frequently shrill and overdrawn. The founder of the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research group in Washington, he unfortunately tends to see everything -- even the Iraq war -- through the bleak prism of a global class war. He exaggerates the impact of globalization on the domestic economy, ascribing many of American labor's ills to the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement, although most economists agree that Nafta has had mixed results. Faux also never quite succeeds in identifying who the baleful ''governing class'' is. And his neoprotectionist solutions, like a North American alliance of ''non-elite majorities,'' often seem fairly quixotic: the interests of labor in countries as different as the United States and Mexico, with their vastly divergent living standards, clash far more than do the interests of cross-border investors.
 It is left to Frieden, a Harvard political economist who specializes in international finance, to put the current economic situation in perspective. Is global capitalism fated to fail this time as it did previously? Not necessarily, Frieden says. Globalization will collapse only if it stops delivering growth, and so far that hasn't happened. Indeed, one reason Faux's global class war hasn't emerged would seem to be that most major economies continue to thrive (the American unemployment rate has hovered around 5 percent for years). 
 Frieden's 500-plus-page book can be ponderous to read, but it is one of the most comprehensive histories of modern capitalism yet written. He provides a clear, detailed account of the rise and fall of the gold-standard era, especially its peak years from 1896 to 1914, and of the post-World War II Bretton Woods agreements, which gave national economies some control over short-term capital flows. Bretton Woods showed that ''modern industrial societies could be committed simultaneously to generous social policies, market capitalism and global economic integration.''
 Frieden also argues that for all the strains created by today's global capitalism, it is still the least worst system out there. After painstakingly detailing little-known episodes like the effort of Hjalmar Schacht, the Nazi Reichsbank president, to impose economic nationalism in the 1930's, as well as the ups and downs of import substitution schemes in many developing countries during the 20th century, he concludes that ''the great alternatives to economic integration failed.'' But Frieden warns that the success of globalization is hardly inevitable. In earlier periods of globalization, he demonstrates, the stabilizing leadership of the dominant global power of the day -- the British Empire during the gold-standard era, the United States after World War II -- was critical.
 One legitimate question today is whether the United States is abdicating this leadership role. Frieden doesn't address the issue directly, but Faux emphatically does. Egged on by feckless Washington policy makers, he says, Americans are living in a dream world of rampant consumerism subsidized by foreigners' willingness to invest in an overvalued dollar. Faux argues that the United States cannot go on being the world's dominant power when its unprotected, relatively less-educated labor force can no longer produce export surpluses in any sector, even high-tech. Instead, in a power shift brokered by a class of multinational investors loyal only to themselves, we are handing off our wealth, and our superpowerhood, to China and other nations. At some point the vast financial and trade imbalances between America and Asia will reach a crisis, Faux warns, with the dollar collapsing, prices spiking and American living standards falling. Ultimately Americans will ask: ''Why should we pay to defend people who are richer than we are?'' And then there goes the American-led world order.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Women in Myanmar sewing sportswear for a Taiwanese company. (Photograph by Paula Bronstein/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (84%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); FARM LABOR (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (66%); SEVERANCE PAY (63%); LITERATURE (63%); GRAIN FARMING (51%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (58%)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (58%); JWA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Michael Hirsh; Jeffry A Frieden; Jeff Faux

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) ONTARIO, CANADA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); MYANMAR (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



109 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 5355 words

HEADLINE: Speculator: Apres Le Deluge, Moi

BYLINE: By Gary Rivlin. 
Gary Rivlin is a reporter for The Times and the author of ''The Plot to Get Bill Gates.''

 BODY:
The flooding that overwhelmed vast stretches of New Orleans last summer and rendered homeless a large portion of its population has taught Patrick Quinn some things. For example, there's the nifty alternative use he found for his otherwise worthless cellphone when the city's telecommunications system collapsed. Quinn is a New Orleans native, a hotel impresario of modest local renown for whom Hurricane Katrina has been not just a disaster but also a once-in-a-lifetime chance to realize his dream of becoming the Donald Trump of the Gulf Coast. In those first weeks after what some simply refer to as the Big K, Quinn frequently found himself prowling around dark and deserted properties throughout the city's flood zones. That's how he learned that a mobile phone, especially the bulky, all-in-one cellphone he carries, gives off a surprisingly bright beam of light. 
Quinn was no mere sightseer. When water covered most of New Orleans and nearly everyone else in town might reasonably have been wishing that they owned real estate anywhere else in the country, Quinn was bidding on properties of all shapes and sizes, both residential and commercial. It was an exercise in improvisation. Three feet of fetid water had flooded his own home, a three-story stone edifice built in the style of a Venetian palazzo, forcing Quinn to buy a new house in Baton Rouge, 80 miles away, and move his family there. The New Orleans headquarters for his hotel chain, Decatur Hotels, was dry, but it lacked electricity for weeks after Katrina hit, so Quinn paid $500,000 for a bus that could serve as a rolling office as he wheeled and dealed his way around the Gulf Coast.
 On a sultry Sunday morning less than two weeks after Katrina, I boarded the bus with Quinn and an entourage of eight that included a driver everyone called Butterbean and one of the full-time assistants Quinn always had by his side in those days -- so, he explained, ''every time I think of a big idea, I have someone to write it down.'' Soon we were heading out of Baton Rouge, southeast toward New Orleans on an eerily empty Interstate. It was Quinn's maiden journey in this vehicle, a sleek black behemoth befitting a rock star. The forward section of the coach, which sleeps nine, was outfitted with a black leather couch, a kitchen table that seated four and a well-stocked wet bar. At the back of the bus, past matching rows of bunk beds, was a surprisingly roomy master bedroom with a mirrored ceiling. A satellite dish enabled Quinn to watch hundreds of channels on either of the bus's two large plasma TV's and, more crucially, stay in constant e-mail contact.
 Quinn was already on the phone when I arrived, just past 9 a.m., and he would still be working his cellphone 12 hours later. Another week would pass before he gave in to his wife's wishes and took a day off. (Or most of a day. Later he would confess to me that he woke up even earlier that morning to get in a few hours of work before spending the rest of a Sunday with his family.)
 ''We're giving people 48 hours'' to accept offers to buy, Quinn told me then. This despite the chaos everywhere and the uncertainty surrounding New Orleans's future. ''I'm telling people, 'Yes or no, we're moving on.' '' That approach, he said, ''doesn't leave me much time for rest right now.''
 F. Patrick Quinn III is hardly the only one to see economic opportunity in the disaster of Katrina. The waters had yet to recede from large stretches of New Orleans before Interstate 10, which ribbons through the city, was dotted with pickups from across the South bearing the decals of disaster-recovery firms. Signs promoting gutting and demolition firms and the services of self-proclaimed mold-remediation experts sprouted like spring gardens at well-traveled intersections around town. Roofers, construction firms, big-box stores like Home Depot: the list of those for whom Katrina was a boon is long. From almost the moment the city started allowing residents back home, the trinket shops dotting the French Quarter were thick with hurricane-related T-shirts, like the one that proclaims, ''Katrina and Rita: Girls Gone Wild.''
 The disaster would prove a boon for real-estate brokers too, though it was not an immediate one. Today, major brokers around town shake their heads in giddy disbelief over all the calls they have received from out-of-towners interested in buying up property in and around New Orleans. Don Randon, for instance, says he has received dozens of those inquiries, including one from a New York-based real-estate investment firm, which he declined to name, willing to spend $25 million on multifamily apartment complexes. He has also received calls about condominium development. Condos are increasingly popular in the city right now, perhaps because they allow people to live high above sea level in structures unlikely to blow over in a storm. ''I'm overwhelmed by outsiders who want to come into this market,'' Larry G. Schedler, a local real-estate agent whose specialty is large apartment buildings, told me. Schedler figures he receives an average of five calls per day from potential investors, ''most of whom have never been in this market.''
 Mike McKinney owns Coleman Homes, a Dallas-based building company specializing in single-family homes. He is among those scouring New Orleans and Baton Rouge for potential sites for a residential subdivision. Brownsfield Partners, a Denver-based real-estate firm that specializes in fixing up and reselling environmentally distressed properties, sees big opportunities in the Gulf Coast region, according to Douglas Elenowitz, a Brownsfield partner. Another firm, Waveland Ventures in Milwaukee and Denver, is looking to take advantage of federal tax breaks established shortly after Katrina struck. But the going isn't easy, a Waveland principal, Chet Schwartz, told me, because ''it seems a lot of people are looking to invest in the Gulf Coast area.''
 Yet it was readily apparent, sitting in the cool, luxuriant embrace of Quinn's rock-star bus so soon after the storm, that whenever someone in the real-estate industry woke up to the opportunities lying in Katrina's wake, he would find that Patrick Quinn had already been there, checkbook in hand. Throughout the time we were together, Quinn was almost constantly on one of the two cellphones he carried. If he was talking on one, a member of his entourage answered the other. Quinn spoke in a clipped fashion, in a mumbly voice and accent that was equal parts mud and honey. Somehow he always sounded conspiratorial, even when he was making a simple request to meet someone at a certain time and place. On occasion he badgered underlings responsible for cleaning up his New Orleans hotels (''Tell him if he can't make it happen by 5 tonight, he should find another job''), but mostly this man whose roots in New Orleans date back three generations used his buttery charms to sweet-talk and wheedle favorable deals.
 Of average size and soft features, Quinn, 51, is a former altar boy whose baby face can at times make him look downright cherubic. That's not to say he's incapable of the occasional fib. Perennially late, he habitually tells people he's running ''5 or 10 minutes late'' even if he's still eating lunch in a restaurant at least 30 minutes away. And occasionally he has been accused of more than a harmless white lie. In 2004, he sold one of his hotels for $3.1 million to a group from Mississippi -- and then was sued by the buyers, who accused him of masking a festering mold problem with wallpaper and paint. (A judge dismissed the suit because it was filed in the wrong jurisdiction. The matter was dropped when Quinn bought the hotel back.)
 He's a man of boundless energy but also surprisingly few movements; he often darts his eyes or gives a quick glance rather than fully turning his head and, like a ventriloquist, barely moves his lips when throwing off dry, often self-deprecating bons mots. He tends to lean forward when he walks, his shoulders hunched, as if he might get where he's going that much quicker, and he often fails to finish sentences -- another time-management tool, perhaps. 
 ''It was that really innocent look he has that really got my attention,'' his wife, Julie, told me. She's a first-term state senator and the mother of their two young children (he has four children from a previous marriage). Only in time, she said with a laugh, ''did I realize it was a really good cover for all he had going on underneath the surface.'' When the couple married, in 1996, Quinn and his partner, Edwin (Mickey) Palmer III, owned only a few hotels. By Aug. 29, the day Katrina landed, they owned 15.
 Quinn's lightninglike transition from hotelier to would-be real-estate baron, while swift, has not been entirely smooth. His first get-rich-quick scheme was to drastically expand the number of beds he could offer to the multitude of blue-collar laborers that would soon be descending on New Orleans, first for the cleanup and then the rebuilding. Almost immediately after the storm, Quinn spent about $1 million on 5,000 bunk beds. The plan was to buy or lease empty buildings around New Orleans and convert them into makeshift barracks. He bought the footlockers to sit beside each bunk and living-room furniture to create common areas. That's when he learned a hard lesson about supply and demand in the midst of a crisis: the portable shower truck that cost maybe $25,000 before Katrina went for more than twice as much after. Quinn said: ''I had a guy tell me, 'You want it, $55,000. If not, I'll sell it to the next guy -- in five minutes.''
 That project, like others, turned out to be a disappointment. It wasn't a money loser, but neither was it the gusher he imagined it would be. Other schemes ended up flat-out busts, like his plan to set himself up as a broker booking rooms, even those operated by his rivals in the hotel business. But those rivals, it turned out, had limited interest. ''I noticed that everyone else was kinda frozen in place, so I figured we'd get in the booking business,'' Quinn said with a shrug. 
 He could afford to be nonchalant because as one idea fell by the wayside, another took its place. By the time he stepped on his bus for the first time, he had bid on about 20 properties, and those deals accounted for only a fraction of his efforts. Condos, nursing homes, halfway houses, more hotels -- there seemed no shortage of ways to make money when so much of the city's housing stock had been destroyed, or at least so severely damaged that it would be months before most people, even those with the means, could move back home.
 Within weeks of the storm, Quinn was already exploring the possible creation of a new subdevelopment with ''thousands of homes'' somewhere in the greater New Orleans area. The fastest way to do that would be to import prefabricated homes -- so it wasn't long before he was thinking that maybe he should open a factory somewhere in Louisiana to stamp them out.
 ''I'm going to really make it big,'' Quinn told me. Then he let out a nervous, high-pitched giggle and added, ''Unless I fall completely flat on my face.''
 Quinn was on the phone in his new Baton Rouge home when I arrived a few days after the maiden journey on the bus. The house was a spacious brick mansion with an expanse of lawn large enough to field a five-on-five football game, and Quinn was pacing back and forth in the kitchen, suffering a bad case of bed head and trying to cajole a prospective seller into lowering his price. Meanwhile, two of his adult sons sat sipping coffee at the kitchen counter, giggling at their father. ''I keep meaning to take a shower,'' he said after he hung up, ''but'' -- he thrust his chin at the cellphone that was being handed to him by his oldest son, Frank Quinn, who was 27 and ostensibly the head of sales for his hotel chain, but now was a key cog in what might be called Quinn Enterprises. 
 Quinn proved resourceful in those chaotic, often frightening early days when even getting in and out of New Orleans required ingenuity. Hundreds of guests were still trapped inside Quinn's hotels when flood waters started to cover the city on that Monday afternoon. Some were tourists who couldn't catch a flight out of the city, others were locals who had sought the security of a stone or concrete structure downtown. ''People would just show up at our door,'' Quinn said. ''We let them in because we figured they had a better chance staying with us than in a two-story wood-framed house.'' On Tuesday, he consolidated the remaining 700 guests at the Astor Crown Plaza, the largest hotel in his chain, under the care of Peter Ambros, its general manager. On several occasions police officers and National Guardsmen stopped by the Astor, Ambros said, and recommended that the hotel's guests be sent to the Convention Center or the Superdome, but Ambros ignored them with Quinn's blessings.
 That meant that caring for and feeding the guests largely fell on Quinn, his family and anyone else whose help he could wrangle. (''It's dangerous to be a member of my family or a friend right now,'' he cracked.) Securing the fuel needed to keep the generators at the Astor running proved challenging. Tuesday night, Quinn finally found a friend who could provide him with not only several barrels of diesel but also the flatbed truck and driver required to cart the 55-gallon drums into the city. By Wednesday morning, Quinn's son Frank, through a friend in the oil industry, had found a tanker truck filled with fuel, and they were able to top off the tanks of businesses in and around the French Quarter, including the aquarium, which has credited the Quinns with saving the lives of some of its fish. Quinn himself made any number of trips to the Astor, cramming into a Lexus sedan as much bottled water, peanut butter and other supplies as it could hold. He maxed out one credit card, then another and then a third. It wouldn't be until Saturday, six days after the flooding, that buses picked up the last of his guests. 
 The French Quarter and central business district escaped relatively unscathed, which was heartening news for New Orleans and its tourism industry and also for Quinn. Most of his properties took on some water through broken windows and roof damage, but with two exceptions, his hotels were not flooded. Still, despite a lack of structural damage, he already had hundreds of out-of-towners on the payroll to repair and clean them up. He was able to house his construction crews and the security personnel he felt obliged to hire, but other businesses didn't have that luxury. It was while driving back and forth to New Orleans during those early days after the storm that he first imagined himself as a post-reconstruction land baron.
 In the Baton Rouge living and dining rooms, now turned into an office, Frank Quinn expressed amazement that 17 days after the storm, most hotel owners, even the large chains, had yet to take even the first steps necessary to clean up their properties. But the same amazement could be held for Quinn and his family. People were still coming home and discovering dead relatives, the streets were piled with mounds of garbage and Frank Quinn spent the bulk of each day talking to everyone who might need to house employees in New Orleans, from local law firms eager to reopen to insurance companies to Wal-Mart, which, it turns out, dispatched employees to scope out the damage to area stores. ''There's tons of opportunity here,'' the younger Quinn said enthusiastically.
 Patrick Quinn acknowledged that there's a fine line between an entrepreneur and a vulture. Borrowing a term coined during Reconstruction, he allowed that there was a question of whether he was a hero or a ''scalawag'' -- a son of the South exploiting a chaotic and defeated region. Was he working to revitalize his city, or was he taking advantage of its vulnerability? Still, he steadfastly tried not to sound defensive. ''I'm giving a place to stay to rescue workers,'' he said. ''For doctors. For people who are going to rebuild this city. It's just like if I was a cook and I was cooking food for these people.'' I teased him about casting himself in such humble terms when he stood to make millions, and he crumbled. Of course the prospect of making mounds of money is spurring him on, he said, but then his voice grew plaintive. ''What's my alternative?'' he asked. ''What else should I be doing with my time?''
 He had a point. Much of the city's property records had been lost or damaged by the flood waters, and brokers had scattered to the corners of the country along with most everyone else in the city. There was talk of the waters staying for months and the possibility of malaria and airborne diseases. Hope was a precious commodity in New Orleans right after the hurricane, when many wondered if the city had any future at all, and Quinn's every action screamed optimism and a belief in the long-term viability of New Orleans. ''While a whole lot of other people were sitting there moping,'' Don Randon, the real-estate broker, said, ''Pat was on the move and doing something to help rebuild the city.''
 The mayor declared housing the city's top priority. Business leaders were voicing the same lament: a lack of housing meant the city was suffering from an acute labor shortage, and without the requisite number of employees, how could they ever rebuild? One blue-blood New Orleanian described Quinn to me as ''aggressive to the point he is rubbing a lot of people the wrong way,'' but at least he was a man of action in a city whose few leaders were plagued by indecisiveness.
 ''He's one of the guys I wish we had more of right now,'' said Larry Schedler, the real-estate broker, who has met Quinn but doesn't really know him. ''He's a doer.''
 When I met Quinn again in mid-December, 15 weeks after the storm, he had moved back into his downtown office. (Though to put some easy cash in his pocket, he chose not to occupy the first floor and instead rented it out to a city agency that had been washed out by the flood.) He was once again set up in Old Metairie, the pricey suburb just west of the city that had been his pre-Katrina home. His family was living there part time, and as best Quinn could tell, they were the only ones on the block that had tried to move back.
 ''I did it as a kind of statement,'' Quinn said. ''To say to people: 'Hey, this can be done. It's hard, but it can be done.' '' The family lived on the second and third floors while a construction crew worked to repair flood damage on the ground floor. They set up a microwave, toaster and coffee maker in a walk-in closet, transforming it into a makeshift kitchen.
 On that December evening, New Orleans felt more like a small town than a major American city. You couldn't spend an hour or two in any public place without running into at least a few people you knew. At one point, Quinn spotted a prominent local banker. ''Got any money you can loan me?'' Quinn said with a grin. When the man said he had maybe $25 million for commercial loans, Quinn immediately responded, ''I'll take it.'' The banker laughed, but it wasn't clear whether either man was joking. ''Will you be around tomorrow?'' Quinn asked.
 By that point, Quinn and his partner, Mickey Palmer, had closed, or were soon to close, on the purchase of six hotels. They paid $3 million to buy back the hotel that ensnared them in litigation, a 102-room Quality Inn in Midtown, a dowdy property that before the storm had ranked No. 138 out of 148 on a popularity index published by the Trip Advisor Web site. It had suffered considerable damage and would require about an additional $1 million in repairs. The 200-room Highrise Inn, in the badly damaged New Orleans East community, cost another $6 million, repairs included. It didn't matter that each had been on the market before Katrina and, Quinn suspected, were losing money. Quinn was convinced he could successfully transform them into temporary dormitories for reconstruction workers. ''I guess I'll have to come up with another use for these properties in a year or two,'' he said with a shrug, ''but I'll worry about that when the time comes.'' He was aggressively acquiring other properties around town, but his plans for them would have to wait for his imagination to catch up with his checkbook.
 ''I'm not sure what I'll do with it,'' Quinn admitted when asked about a commercial warehouse that he had just bought for a million dollars. ''It was for sale, and it looked like a good buy.'' (Quinn has declined to say how much money he has borrowed since Katrina, or how much of his existing holdings are leveraged, except to confirm that he has already spent tens of millions of dollars. ''Some of it was money I had lying around,'' he says.)
 He was hardly done, however. At a time when it was still not clear whether the federal government would commit to rebuilding the area's levee system, Quinn was deep in negotiations on two much larger deals. One involved a 250-room hotel that he described as a ''real quality asset,'' the other a historic office building in the center of town he was thinking of converting to a condominium tower or a hotel.
 All of this activity could strike the casual observer as manic, but Quinn saw himself as adding some jet fuel to what he considered a proven and successful business model. Over the years he had built himself into a player in the tourism industry primarily by buying up office, warehouse and apartment buildings well past their prime and converting them into hotels. Post-Katrina, Quinn said, the plan was ''to meld our background and experience in acquisitions and development and construction with the opportunities that were available and based on what the city was going to need over the next several years.''
 Not that he was above plucking other post-Katrina low-hanging fruit when he spotted it. ''Pat,'' said Hayden Wren, a broker who owns a small share in one of Quinn's hotels, ''has always been the type of investor that if he sees an opportunity, he's going to make a very aggressive play to take advantage of that opportunity.'' When the mayor and City Council started feuding about the placement of FEMA temporary housing trailers around town, Quinn contacted people he knew at the agency: he just happened to have an empty parking lot he could spare -- if the price was right. ''I've been told FEMA pays $400 a month per trailer,'' he said. ''If I can fit 100 trailers there, that's $40,000 per month.''
 The growing tension between local residents and big insurance companies proved another rich -- and to him obvious -- vein to mine. By November, Quinn had hung banners around town advertising a business he called American Claims Consulting (''We Work for You, Not Your Ins. Co.''). The business was just a phone number, really: a woman answering the phone directed callers to one of a stable of independent insurance adjusters who had agreed to give Quinn as much as one-fifth of any business he steered their way. The idea and its execution seemed quintessential Quinn. To drape oversize white banners on buildings he owned might be slightly tacky, but he was providing people if not a practical service, then access to one.
 None of his plans capture the dreamer in Quinn quite so powerfully as his goal of becoming a major player in the home-building business. Before Katrina, he was a hotel operator with a single residential property among his holdings: a 20-unit condominium building in the city's warehouse district that he bought and finished rehabbing shortly before the storm. During his fall buying spree, he purchased a 48-unit apartment building for between $3.5 million and $4 million, with renovations. But his ultimate ambition has been to back a subdivision in the manner of the biggest real-estate developers. The city still has yet to determine which neighborhoods will or will not be permitted to rebuild, but that hasn't slowed Quinn down. He has been scouting locations in New Orleans proper and St. Bernard Parish, the areas hardest hit by the storm. So far, however, he hasn't found a suitably large tract of land. ''Finding the property is the hard part,'' Quinn said. ''Everything after that is easy.''
 He faces the opposite problem in his attempt to be the prefab king of Louisiana: he has identified a perfect location along the Mississippi River for a factory that will manufacture modular houses, but has found no one to take charge of the effort. He is convinced his wife's father is perfect for the role, but his father-in-law, who lives in Florida, has so far not been willing to drop everything and move to Louisiana to build and run a modular-home factory. ''Something about having his own life,'' Quinn says with a laugh.
 But not having his factory hasn't stopped Quinn from acting as if he does. He has purchased two drowned-out homes in Lakeview, a ravaged section of New Orleans, at a cost of between $100,000 and $150,000 each, with the intention of ripping them down and displaying a pair of model homes there. And even if he doesn't manufacture the modular homes himself, he could buy the component parts from those already in the prefab business and make money that way. ''We can buy a bunch of lots and say, 'O.K., we'll build this house or that one for you on this lot,' '' Quinn said, sketching out a vision of Quinn Enterprises adding a home-building division. ''Or if you own a lot, and your house has to be destroyed, we'll build a new house on your lot for you.''
 The last time I went property hunting with Quinn was in January on a day full of distractions. The fire marshal had cited him for unlawfully housing a portion of his hotel cleanup crew in a crumbling four-story office building he used for storage before Katrina. Meanwhile, protesters were marching outside one of his hotels, claiming that he had evicted a group of evacuees so he could make room for those willing to pay a premium for a room during Mardi Gras season. Quinn told me his people had evicted a few troublemakers and drug users who had been abusing his property and had replaced them with other displaced locals. Still, when two television reporters showed up to report on the controversy, Quinn refused to comment.
 The main event that day was a trip out to a suburb west of the city so that Quinn could check out a three-story, 82-unit condo complex. Though there had been no flooding, a large section of the roof caved in during the storm and mold had spread through at least a few of the units. The building, though, stood on a busy street in a stable community in a high-and-dry part of the metro area. Sight unseen, Quinn had earlier offered the owners, who lived in Houston, $2.5 million. Now one of the owners had come to town for further talks.
 Quinn didn't think the owners would accept his bid of $2.5 million. It was a tactic, a way of sending the message that he was a man in a hurry. Before making the bid, Quinn had done a quick back-of-the-envelope calculation: it costs at least $30,000 per unit to build a condo, so he simply multiplied that by 82 units. Even if they had agreed to the initial offer, he was confident it would have been a good deal. That price, even for a wind-damaged building, would be less than constructing a new one.
 Quinn still had his bus, but these days his preferred mode of transportation was more conventional, a black Lexus with cream-colored leather seats. His entourage had shrunk considerably, but that's because everyone was busy working on his many projects. He now traveled with a driver and a single assistant, an ambitious young lawyer who was convinced that working with Quinn gave him a good shot at becoming a millionaire. This turned out not to be a day for learning at the feet of the master, though. The assistant stayed by the car, working the phone, while Quinn met with the hotel owner, who had arrived dressed in jeans and running shoes.
 The man from Houston told Quinn that he was in no hurry to sell. Quinn frowned. ''What if I made it worth your while?'' he asked. Quinn asked Houston for a profit-and-loss statement from 2004, which the owner didn't have, so Quinn asked for ballpark figures, which the owner said he couldn't do. No dice. Though he was wearing shiny tasseled loafers, Quinn climbed up on the roof. He asked to see the rooms afflicted by black mold. He asked the owner how much it would cost to repair the place, but the man said he hadn't yet gotten an estimate. Safely back in the car, Quinn voiced his frustration. ''I could probably make a deal with him,'' he said, shaking his head. ''But it would take forever.''
 It was a frustrating, wasted day -- and hardly his first since the storm. ''In this business,'' he said, ''you spend too much time on things that never come to fruition.'' But when I asked Quinn what motivates him to keep working at his current pace, it was as if he were hearing the question for the first time. He seemed at a loss for words. ''We have all the money we need right now,'' he mused, referring to his family. ''If I make another $5 million or $10 million or whatever, we're not going to live any differently.''
 Perhaps the payoff he seeks is in a softer currency: status. Quinn is a well-known figure among the New Orleans rich and powerful, and he's enough of an insider that the maitre d' at Galatoire's, that hoary standard-bearer of the local restaurant scene, knows him by sight. But he's not the kind of leader whom the mayor would name to a major commission or board. In part that may be because of the fact that among the New Orleans gentry, it's O.K. to have made money only so long as people don't see you sweat doing it. And in part that's because unlike another self-made man in town, Joe Canizaro, the reigning prince of the real-estate scene, Quinn is not quite so rich or so successful that people have no choice but to embrace him as one of the first citizens of New Orleans. Like Quinn, Canizaro lives in Old Metairie, which is not where you typically find the city's old-money aristocrats. They tend to live Uptown in grand old homes along St. Charles Avenue or on Audubon Park. Old Metairie is where the nouveau riche often buy so they can knock down understated homes and replace them with multimillion-dollar castles that shout success. 
 It's too early to say whether Quinn will make it to the exalted level occupied by Canizaro, who played a critical role on the commission chosen to put together a plan to rebuild the city. Canizaro made his reputation putting up some of the city's signature high rises, so it's probably no surprise that in recent weeks Quinn's acquisitive vision has been directed upward. He is negotiating a deal on an Art Deco gem called the National American Bank Building, a downtown high rise that he estimates will cost him $50 million once he is through converting it into a condo or hotel (or both). Now he is focused on a potential purchase that, if he pulls it off, would propel him into the top ranks of Crescent City developers: the World Trade Center, a once-successful office tower at the foot of Canal Street.
 The building is not particularly handsome, and over the years it has fallen on hard times. Yet its location, on the edge of the Mississippi River, in the heart of downtown, makes it impossible to ignore. ''It may be the most desirable property in all of New Orleans right now,'' said Arthur Sterbcow, the president of Latter & Blum, a New Orleans-based real-estate firm that bills itself as the largest on the Gulf Coast.
 Though Quinn is still a long way from acquiring this building, which has drawn the interests of others, he recently became a member of the exclusive private club that occupies its loftiest floor. It's the sort of aerie that can nourish a man's imagination, a place where a native son can look out over his hometown -- even one in the midst of a mortal crisis -- and dream. ''This,'' Quinn said between bites of carved beef in the hushed atmosphere of the club's dining room, ''will be my final frontier.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 5 about Patrick Quinn, a real-estate developer in New Orleans, referred imprecisely to his sale and repurchase of a Quality Inn there. His partner in some real-estate dealings, Edwin (Mickey) Palmer III, was not involved in the sale or repurchase of the hotel, now called the Rowntowner, or in the litigation surrounding it.
An article on March 5 about Patrick Quinn, a real-estate developer in New Orleans, referred imprecisely to his sale and repurchase of a Quality Inn there. His partner in some real-estate dealings, Edwin (Mickey) Palmer III, was not involved in the sale or repurchase of the hotel, now called the Rowntowner, or in the litigation surrounding it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick Quinn at the Highrise Inn, one of his post-Katrina acquisitions. (Photograph by Jeff Mermelstein)
National American Bank: Quinn is in negotiations to buy the building, in downtown New Orleans. He plans on converting it into either a hotel, condominiums or a combination of the two for a total estimated cost of $50 million.
Lakeview Lot: Quinn bought two houses in the devastated Lakeview section, at a cost of $100,000 to $150,000 each, in order to tear them down. He plans to put models of prefabricated homes on the lots.
The World Trade Center, Canal Street: One of New Orleans's most-sought-after properties
Quinn has made an undisclosed bid on it, which he envisions as another ''Quinn Enterprises'' hotel-condo project.
St. Helene Hotel: Quinn signed a 20-year lease for this hotel in the French Quarter. Damage to the building was not extensive, and he plans only to renovate it.
Mandeville Apartments: Purchased for between $3.5 million and $4 million. Quinn plans a condo conversion.
3940 Tulane Avenue: Quinn took a lease on this damaged banquet facility. He has recently started to use it as a makeshift storage space for other Quinn renovations in the vicinity, like the hotel at 3900 Tulane Avenue, visible in the background.
 Warehouse on Blessey Street: Quinn bought this building for a little more than $1 million. He's not sure what he'll do with it, but for the price, it looked like a good buy. (Photographs by Todd Hido for The New York Times.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); HURRICANES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); WEATHER (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); HOTEL CHAINS (71%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (62%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Real Estate

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%) Patrick Quinn; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



110 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood's Crowd Control Problem

BYLINE: By Manohla Dargis

 BODY:
TONIGHT, an expected 41 million Americans will tune into the 78th annual Academy Awards to watch a spectacle largely honoring films they have not seen and may never get around to watching. Much has been made, in particular, about the smallness of most of the nominees for best picture, which usually refers to their modest budgets and absence of stars, but also rightly suggests an economy of ambition and scale. With the exception of Steven Spielberg's ''Munich,'' a political thriller about the 1972 Olympics massacre and its aftermath, these are intimate stories in which most of the action involves characters talking and occasionally shouting at one another. They were also released by an independent or studio specialty division (Little Hollywood, not Big). 
 There are all sorts of reasons why ''Munich,'' along with ''Brokeback Mountain,'' ''Capote,'' ''Crash'' and ''Good Night, and Good Luck'' were nominated for best picture (they're pretty good, for one) and a couple of reasons why we should care. Among the most obvious and discomfiting, however, is that Big Hollywood increasingly finds it difficult to make the kinds of high-profile movies that the industry likes to honor with its most important awards. The received wisdom about the awards, especially outside Los Angeles, is that they are nothing but an orgy of self-love, which of course they are. But they are also a useful barometer of mainstream American film culture, and they tell us something about how the movie industry sees itself and sees us, its increasingly fickle consumers.
 You don't have to have followed all the reports of a box-office slump last year to know that Hollywood is in trouble. You just have to walk into the lobby of a multiplex and look at the posters to know that America's big screens are awash in the fast and the furious, the cheap and the stupid. To judge by how executives at major studios often talk about their business, in their discussions about closing windows, new platforms and emergent technologies, the movies themselves barely count. What counts is when you can watch a film on your cellphone, not if there is something worth losing your eyesight over. In the age of the incredible shrinking movie, content equals quantity, not quality.
 No matter the guff about the old studio moguls pounding their fists on their desks and demanding excellence, and despite the sob stories about trampled vision, the American film industry has always been a business first. The genius of the system, to borrow Andre Bazin's phrase, was that this heavily standardized, technologically dependent industry still fostered creative freedom and produced individual works of art. American movies both gave us an image of who we wanted to be and were instrumental in the creation of who we became. 
 But what are our movies saying about us now? ''Munich'' is one of Mr. Spielberg's crowning achievements, yet despite its accolades it has been characterized as a disappointment. There is a sense that the director hasn't been able to connect with those who months earlier thrilled to his dystopian fantasy, ''War of the Worlds.'' Audiences may be staying away from ''Munich'' because it lacks pop kicks and familiar marquee names. I fear, though, that after being fed a steady diet of schlock and awe, trained to expect less from films that demand little of them in turn, moviegoers no longer expect greatness from Hollywood and may not much care when, on that rare occasion, it shows up at the neighborhood multiplex. 
 Mr. Spielberg and his friend George Lucas are often blamed by cinephiles for helping to bring about the end of the revered period of 1970's American cinema, for ushering in the modern blockbuster age with ''Jaws'' and ''Star Wars.'' Among the easy riders and rock-and-rollers of his generation, Mr. Spielberg has long seemed the most adept at riding out industry shifts, maintaining both his critical and commercial supremacy. Yet the audience's indifference to ''Munich'' (indifference that most certainly has nothing to do with the political hysteria that greeted the film) suggests that in his capacity as a reigning auteur of the modern blockbuster, Mr. Spielberg has helped create an audience more interested in his talents as a rollercoaster operator than as an artist.
 IN both its ambition and scale, ''Munich'' is a big film; it's a thriller that transcends genre, an action movie with ideas, with a large international cast and locations from around the world. By contrast, ''Brokeback Mountain,'' for all its majestic mountain views and turning calendar pages, and despite the groaning weight of its sociopolitical burden, is a romance about two people trapped in their very tiny worlds. ''Capote'' and ''Good Night, and Good Luck,'' both morality tales of a kind, make a virtue out of their humble budgets and narrow focus without transcending either, while ''Crash'' is the smallest of the bunch: a fantasy about a handful of Los Angeles residents who keep knocking into one another, kind of like the industry crowd that lunches at Orso. 
 All five nominees have their attractions; what they don't have is the mass audience. Although they obviously aspire to that audience and the dollars that come with it, each nominee is embedded in a specific milieu and turns on internal struggles of specific types: Israeli vigilantes, homosexual lovers, television producers, writer-sophisticates and race-crazed Angelenos. With the exception of ''Munich,'' these are the kinds of modestly scaled, moderately complex stories that have come to define notionally independent cinema. They are also films that will scale down nicely when you watch them on your television set. Which is precisely what the industry, which relies heavily on DVD sales and rentals, is counting on. 
 These days big studio movies do not, as a rule, excite the intellect or stir the soul: that's what specialty titles like ''Brokeback Mountain'' are for. In the last few decades, the American movie industry has become increasingly split between high-concept spectacles engineered to attract as many viewers as possible (think flypaper) and niche products pitched to specific audiences. In this climate, films released through a studio specialty unit, like ''Capote'' and ''Good Night, and Good Luck,'' are just one niche among many, like horror or teen flicks. Their principal value doesn't come from ticket sales, but from the prestige and awards they confer on a parent company. In Hollywood, as a friend recently quipped, ''Quality is now a genre.'' 
 The corporate independent, meaning brands like Fox Searchlight Pictures and Focus Features, may be as oxymoronic a term as high concept, but as this year's Oscars prove it's an oxymoron that has reaped important dividends for Hollywood. The absorption of independent companies into the system and the creation of specialty divisions furnished the industry with a much-needed infusion of new talent, from influential filmmakers like Steven Soderbergh to ubiquitous executives like Harvey Weinstein. Without corporate independents like Warner Independent Pictures, a specialty arm of Warner Brothers Entertainment, George Clooney might be home tonight instead of smiling for the camera on behalf of ''Good Night, and Good Luck,'' for which he has been nominated for best director, and ''Syriana,'' for which he received a nomination for best supporting actor. As the star of films like ''Ocean's 12,'' Mr. Clooney makes money for Warner Brothers Entertainment; as a corporate independent player, he gives it class. 
 Mr. Clooney's dual capacity reflects Hollywood's tradition of giving us the same thing while making it seem somehow different. At the same time, he is part of a system that now reserves most of its smartest, most high-minded and ostensibly serious properties for its specialty divisions, the implication being that most moviegoers are not interested in smart, high-minded, serious films. Maybe they aren't. Or maybe they no longer have faith in the movies: witness Hollywood's recent inability to sell low-end garbage like ''Stealth'' or high-end kitsch like ''Memoirs of a Geisha.'' Even the chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, Michael Lynton, whose company released both titles, admits moviegoers aren't as stupid as the studios seem to think: ''Audiences have gotten smart to the marketing, they can smell the good ones from the bad ones at a distance.''
 The crisis now facing Hollywood isn't unique to the movies; the atomization of the culture makes it hard to know what people want, particularly when they belong to a multi-everything society like ours. Still, something will be lost if Hollywood continues to downsize its ambitions and fails to make movies that connect with the mass audience, to make movies that speak to us as a unified whole rather than as a mass of self-interested egos, that give us a sense of collective identity and social cohesion. A nation of iPod-people, each staring at his or her individually downloaded film on the delivery system of his or her choice, seems a poor substitute for the oceanic feeling that comes with watching a film with a crowd, finding communion in the dark.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite being nominated for best picture, Steven Spielberg's ''Munich,'' with Lynn Cohen as Golda Meir, has been called disappointing because it failed to reach the same audiences that flocked to his ''War of the Worlds.'' (Photo by Karen Ballard/Universal Studios)
 (Photo by Andrew Cooper/Paramount Pictures)(pg. 21)Drawing (Drawing by Jason Ford)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OLYMPICS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (73%) Manohla Dargis

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



111 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: We Are (Aren't) Safer With India in the Nuclear Club

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
HAS President Bush just made the world a safer or a more dangerous place?
 That question lingered after he reached a deal with India last week recognizing that India is never giving up its nuclear weapons, and declaring that a country America once treated as a nuclear pariah could now be trusted.
 In doing so, Mr. Bush took a step in his efforts to rewrite the world's longstanding rules that for more than 30 years have forbidden providing nuclear technology to countries that do not sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
 ''I'm trying to think differently,'' Mr. Bush said in New Delhi, referring to the administration's argument that a new system is needed. But in treating India as a special case -- a ''strategic relationship'' -- he has so far declined to define general rules for everyone. 
 In essence, Mr. Bush is making a huge gamble -- critics say a dangerous one -- that the United States can control proliferation by single-handedly rewarding nuclear states it considers ''responsible,'' and punishing those it declares irresponsible. For those keeping a scorecard, India is in the first camp, Iran is in the second, and no one in the administration wants to talk, at least on the record, about Israel or Pakistan -- two allies that have embraced the bomb, but not the treaty.
 So will other countries with nuclear ambitions react by becoming more responsible, as the administration hopes, or more envious and more determined than ever to expand their own arsenals? And will India use its new access to American-branded nuclear fuel to free up its domestic supplies of uranium to make bomb fuel for new weapons? And how will the deal affect the tense relationship between India and Pakistan, or for that matter China?
 Perhaps the strongest and most discussed critique of the deal goes like this: Mr. Bush's timing could not be worse. In the eyes of his critics, he is creating a double standard by legitimizing an Indian weapons program that only eight years ago led Washington to impose huge sanctions, while demanding, in the same week, that Iran and North Korea give up any capacity to make their own nuclear fuel. 
 Mr. Bush, notes Ashton B. Carter, a nuclear expert at Harvard, declared nearly two years ago that there should be no new nuclear states, a concept that ''was violated irrevocably'' when Mr. Bush and the Indians reached agreement on the broad outline of this deal last summer. Now, he says, the deal at least puts the United States in the position of dealing directly with India's plans to maintain or expand its arsenal. 
 But the new deal may have solved one problem at the expense of creating new ones. Mr. Bush's team says it designed the India deal as a way to build a ''strategic partnership'' with the world's largest democracy, after decades of estrangement. India has proved itself a responsible power, Mr. Bush said. It also does not hurt that the country is one of the fastest-growing emerging markets, a favorite destination for technology companies, and a potential friend if trouble breaks out in tense relationships with China and Pakistan.
 The part of the deal the administration likes to talk about allows India to buy American fuel for its civilian reactors for the first time, in exchange for opening them to international inspection. But India only designated 14 of its sites as ''civilian'' plants that it permanently guarantees can be inspected (up from four a few months ago), meaning that the additional eight can be used to make bomb fuel. 
 That part of the deal drives its critics up the cooling tower. 
 The administration never expected India's nuclear establishment to give up its ability to make bomb-grade fuel. So the administration's negotiator ''caved on that one early on,'' in the words of Robert J. Einhorn, a nonproliferation expert who served under President Clinton and in the early days of Mr. Bush's tenure. 
 Critics have noted that since the United States would now sell India fuel for its newly declared civilian reactors -- assuming Congress goes along -- the Indians can devote their domestic uranium supply to weapons. ''It substantially expands the supply of uranium the Indians have for military purposes,'' said Mr. Einhorn.
 Mr. Bush argues that the Indians were going to build more weapons anyway. 
 And he said on Thursday in New Delhi that a way had be found to help India build safe civilian nuclear plants. Otherwise, it and China, the other country with a billion-plus population and a rising appetite for energy supplies, would end up struggling with each other and the West over resources to keep their economies growing. 
 Mr. Bush puts that as a pocketbook issue: ''Increasing demand for oil from America, from India and China, relative to a supply that's not keeping up with demand, causes our fuel prices to go up,'' he said. ''And so, to the extent that we can reduce demand for fossil fuels, it will help the American consumer.'' 
 ''It's a start,'' said Xenia Dormandy, a Southeast Asia expert who was in on the early days of the deal as an official at the National Security Council, before leaving for Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. ''It acknowledges that over the years, India has played according to the rules, never proliferated, and it makes more sense to bring a rising power into the system rather than treat them like we've treated them for 30 years.''
 Ms. Dormandy applauds the deal for another reason: the politics of Pakistan, the nuclear power next door, is driven by jealousy over anything that India gets. The government there, she argued, may be driven to clean up its nuclear act in hopes of one day getting a similar deal. 
 Maybe so, but it could be a long wait: Robert Blackwill, the former American ambassador to India and an early architect of the agreement, said that because of the huge nuclear black market that Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani nuclear engineer, operated from Islamabad for two decades, ''there's not the slightest possibility that this deal is going to be made available to Pakistan.'' But if there is a plan to keep Pakistan from boosting its own relatively small arsenal to keep up with India -- or China from doing the same -- no one in the adminstration has yet explained it.
 That is why some experts believe the deal could make the world more dangerous: Even if India is a responsble player, the deal could touch off a regional race to produce more bomb fuel. In that case, more of that fuel would be floating around -- perhaps to tempt terrorists. If, on the other hand, India shows restraint and Mr. Bush's gamble pays off, other nations that defiantly built their own weapons may gradually be drawn back into a new club whose membership rules are still being written.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Control Center -- Under a deal signed last week, the United States could sell India fuel for nuclear power plants. (Photo by M. Lakshman/Associated Press)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Treaties

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) David Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



112 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: READING FILE

 BODY:
Imagining Assassination
 At www.foreignpolicy.com, Daniel Byma of Georgetown University looks at '' The World's Marked Men,'' and asks: what if they were assassinated?

President Hamid Karzai (Afghanistan)
 Why? Karzai is a marked man, both as a U.S. ally and for trying to disarm militias and expand the rule of law. 
Worst case: Civil war. The assassination and jockeying for power could set the stage for renewed ethnic and tribal conflict. Reconstruction would cease.

President Vladimir Putin (Russia)
 
 Why? Putin's brutal policies in Chechnya make him a hated man in the breakaway province and throughout much of the Muslim world. 
 Worst case: The assassination becomes a pretext for an even greater suspension of democratic rights and a more brutal crackdown on Chechnya, fueling conflict for years to come. 

President Hugo Chavez (Venezuela)
 Why? Chavez's long list of enemies includes the Bush administration, many Latin American leaders, and televangelist Pat Robertson. They loathe Chavez for embracing such groups as Colombia's FARC rebels and his gratuitous anti-Americanism. 
 Worst case: The assassination empowers the radical wing of the Chavez movement. Venezuela's considerable oil production sputters to a halt, either from chaos or a deliberate shutdown from Chavismo members convinced the United States is behind the assassination (or who declare United States involvement out of political expediency).

President Pervez Musharraf (Pakistan)
 Why? Musharraf's crackdown on Al Qaeda in Pakistan, though half-hearted at times, enrages jihadists. They have tried to kill Musharraf several times, with at least one attempt coming close to success. 
 Worst case: A power struggle develops within the army, and a nuclear-armed Pakistan collapses into sectarian and ethnic strife while the large jihadist contingent operates unfettered. The instability leads to another India-Pakistan war.

King Abdullah (Saudi Arabia)
 Why? Since 2003, Abdullah has led a crackdown on jihadists and maintained close ties to the United States. He is also modernizing the kingdom, a dangerous step in the deeply conservative country. 
 Worst case: Sultan [Prince Sultan bin Abdel Aziz al-Saud] takes power but is largely incompetent. While he fiddles, Nayef [Prince Nayef bin Abdel Aziz] exercises de facto control, crushing any reform movement and distancing the country from the United States.

Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani (Iraq)
 Why? Sistani holds Iraq's Shia community together, despite numerous internal divisions and repeated provocations from Sunni jihadists. Several of his aides have been assassinated, and he remains a target for those who oppose his pragmatic stance or hope to ignite civil war. 
 Worst case: Full-scale civil war, both between Sunnis and Shiites, and within the Shia community. Conspiracy theories that the United States killed Sistani become received wisdom, and even reasonable voices blame the United States for allowing it to happen.

India's Drug Deal
 ''A Nation of Guinea Pigs,'' an article in Wired by Jennifer Kahn, describes how India has become a world center of drug trials.
 The consulting firm McKinsey calculates that the market in India for outsourced trials will hit $1.5 billion by 2010. 
 Like high-tech call centers and software farms, which were meant to transform India's computer industry by creating skilled workers and a stockpile of modern equipment, drug trial outsourcing is seen as the fast route to economic and scientific growth. With this in mind, the government is working to advertise India's most pharmacologically appealing qualities, notably its doctors (English-speaking and educated abroad) and its vast number of ailing patients -- 32 million diabetics alone. 
 Last year, the government took a more controversial step, amending a long-standing law that limited the kind of trials that foreign pharmaceutical companies could conduct. In January, the government threw out that constraint. India, the brilliant hub of outsourced labor, was positioning itself in a newly lucrative role: guinea pig to the world

How Blonds Evolve
 Roger Dobson and Abul Taher report in The London Times (www.timesonline.co.uk) on a study suggesting blonds began having more fun in the Ice Age.
 According to the study, North European women evolved blond hair and blue eyes at the end of the Ice Age to make them stand out from their rivals at a time of fierce competition for scarce males. 
 The study argues that blond hair originated in the region because of food shortages 10,000 to 11,000 years ago. Until then, humans had the dark brown hair and dark eyes that still dominate in the rest of the world. Almost the only sustenance in Northern Europe came from roaming herds of mammoths, reindeer, bison and horses. Finding them required long, arduous hunting trips in which numerous males died, leading to a high ratio of surviving women to men. 
 Lighter hair colors, which started as rare mutations, became popular for breeding, and numbers increased dramatically, according to the research, published under the aegis of the University of St. Andrews. However, the future of the blond is uncertain. 
 A study by the World Health Organization found that natural blonds are likely to be extinct within 200 years because there are too few people carrying the blond gene. According to the W.H.O. study, the last natural blond is likely to be born in Finland during 2202.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An excerpt in the Reading File column last Sunday from an article published last month in The Times of London about the evolution of blond hair included a reference to a study, attributed to the World Health Organization, that predicted that blond hair would become extinct in 200 years. In 2002, after the first news reports about the study, W.H.O. said it had never done research on the subject and that it had no knowledge of how the reports originated.
 A Reading File excerpt from an article at www.foreignpolicy.com that imagined the assassinations of international political figures misspelled the surname of the author. He is Daniel Byman, not Byma.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); AL-QAEDA (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (55%); AL-QAEDA (54%) Foreign Policy (Magazine); Wired (Magazine); Times of London

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (88%); HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (77%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (72%) Daniel Byma; Jennifer Kahn; Roger Dobson; Abdul Taher

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



113 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Isolationism, but It's Not Attractive

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
This was going to be a column on the growing isolationism of the American people. I was going to argue that in the post-Iraq era, the quickest way for an unprincipled cynic to get to the White House is by running as a smiling Democratic-Buchananite.
 Attack the Dubai ports deal to burnish your security credentials. Call for less foreign adventurism and more spending at home to win the Democratic base. Go hard against illegal immigration to win the working class. Rail against China and free trade deals to build support in the Midwest. Bash France just for the fun of it. Bingo! You're cruising to Inauguration Day. 
 Unfortunately, before I had finished that column, I looked at the facts. The bulk of the evidence suggests there is no rising tide of isolationism in this country, even with the bloodshed in Iraq. 
 A polling analyst, Ruy Teixeira, has taken the closest look at the data over at his Web site, Donkey Rising. Teixeira argues that instead of seeing a turn to isolationism, what we are seeing in poll after poll is public opinion returning to normal post-World War II levels, after the unusual 9/11 blip. 
 Much of the isolationist talk started when a Pew survey found that 42 percent of Americans believe that the U.S. should mind its own business internationally, a 12-point rise over three years. But Teixeira points out that the 42 percent number puts Americans back where they were throughout the Clinton years, when Americans supported more foreign interventions than ever before.
 Meanwhile, the rest of the evidence shows high engagement in foreign affairs. Public support for multilateral action remains phenomenally strong. Support for foreign aid is higher than it's been. International issues like global terrorism remain among Americans' top concerns.
 Attitudes toward economic globalization are, if anything, more positive than they have been historically. In 1953, 54 percent of Americans favored free trade. In 2000, 64 percent of Americans said free trade was good for the U.S. In 2004, 64 percent said globalization was good for the U.S. and 65 percent agreed international trade was good for ''your standard of living.'' 
 In the late 1940's, Americans were asked if the U.S. should be active abroad or stay out of world affairs. Back then, during the heyday of American internationalism, 69 percent said the U.S. should be active abroad. Today, the share of people who say that is the same: 69 percent.
 On the Republican side, there has been no surge of Pat Buchanan-style paleoconservatism. On the contrary, the influence of Reagan and Bush, and the growing evangelical interest in foreign affairs, have virtually eliminated isolationism from the Republican Party, its traditional home. Meanwhile, the likely Democratic presidential nominee is Hillary Clinton, who has been barely distinguishable from John McCain on foreign policy matters (aside from her ports pandering). 
 In short, Iraq, in this sphere as in so many, is not Vietnam. The Vietnam War caused America to swing from extroversion to introversion. The Iraq war has a different dynamic. 
 That's because in the late 1960's, the Vietnamese were not going around the world carrying out suicide attacks. Vietnamese were not rioting over cartoons. The Vietnamese did not fly planes into skyscrapers. The current conflict has an element of existential menace Vietnam did not have. 
 Thus the chief effect of Iraq is not to move the U.S. toward isolationism; it has been to shift American opinion from one form of internationalism to another.
 George Bush's brand was based on the premise that Arabs aren't very different from anybody else, and can be brought into the family of democratic nations. This brand is, sadly, fading.
 The rising internationalism is based, by contrast, on Arab exceptionalism. This is the belief that while most of the world is chugging toward a globally integrated future, the Arab world remains caught in its own medieval whirlpool of horror. The Arab countries cannot become quickly democratic; their people aren't ready for pluralistic modernity; they just have to be walled off so they don't hurt us again.
 People won't express such quasi-racial views directly to pollsters, but the attitude shows up in the mammoth reaction to the Dubai ports deal, in the spike of people who want the U.S. to eliminate its dependence on Middle East oil, in the reaction to the cartoon riots. A similar attitudinal shift is evident in Europe -- in spades.
 As I tried to argue in a column about the ports deal, this reaction is a crude overgeneralization, but it's there. As the election season progresses, voters are going to pull candidates in a gritty, bloody-minded direction. No more uplifting talk about freedom. Soon the contest will be over who can be toughest on the crescent menace.
 America isn't growing more isolationist. Americans are going to be happy to integrate with the world, just not with the Arab world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (56%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; Isolationism (US); Public Opinion

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (57%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



114 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Gives India Applause, Pakistan a Pat on the Back

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, March 4 

 BODY:
President Bush leaves this region having declared India and Pakistan strategic partners. But his declarations spoke just as loudly of the shifting balance of power in the region, and the world. 
 It was India that appeared to come out the biggest winner this week. Pakistan walked away with little more than a mild pat on the back after Mr. Bush's visit on Saturday. While buttressing America's alliances in the region, Mr. Bush also took home a formidable political challenge to sell his nuclear deal with India to a skeptical Congress.
India could hardly be more pleased. ''IND-US CIVILIZATION,'' screamed a front-page headline in The Times of India on Saturday, in joyous praise for what President Bush had bestowed on the nation.
 Those gifts included a nuclear deal celebrated by Indian officials, elevation as a global leader, and nary a recriminatory word on the troubles in the disputed province of Kashmir. Indian backers of a United States-India partnership were elated. 
 ''I think we have managed to get a rather good deal,'' a senior Indian official said, unwilling to disclose his name because the full details of the nuclear agreement had yet to be shared with the Indian Parliament. ''This is from our point of view, a hard bargain.''
 In Pakistan, the difference was discerned. ''One thing is very clear: The U.S. is keeping India and Pakistan at two different levels,'' said Hasan Askari Rizvi, an independent political analyst in Lahore. ''The kind of multifaceted interaction that exists between India and the United States is not to be seen with reference to Pakistan. For Pakistan, it's a limited and cautious support.''
 Some members of the United States Congress and analysts have already taken the Bush administration to task for making too many concessions to India, the bete noire of outsourcing in some American circles and a stubborn opponent of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Mr. Bush's test is to persuade Americans that India is worth the bargain.
 The balance of costs and benefits has everything to do with India's new place in the world and its rise in the American imagination. 
 It is the world's largest democracy, seen in some quarters as a potential check on China. It has the world's second-largest population of Muslims. Its engineers and call center workers are embedded in the largest American corporations. Its immigrants in the United States have grown swiftly in number, wealth and influence. 
 Perhaps most important, India's economy has galloped forward for the last several years: It is poised to post more than 8 percent growth this year and double-digit growth in the years ahead. Its potential market is vast. Mr. Bush exhorted India to open that market further, and in his joint statement with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh he listed ''economic prosperity and trade'' as the first among several agreements made between the countries. ''Economics has featured prominently on this trip,'' the deputy United States trade representative, Karan Bhatia, said Friday. 
 But it is the nuclear deal, which commits the United States to supporting India's civilian nuclear program, that will stand as the measure of what was achieved this week. 
 Pakistan said it expected Mr. Bush at least to press India harder for a solution to their territorial dispute over Kashmir in exchange for the nuclear favor granted to India. 
 But despite Pakistani demands for equal nuclear status with India, the White House maintained that the scandal surrounding the Pakistani nuclear scientist A. Q. Khan and his illegal nuclear peddling made no such deal possible anytime soon. 
 There was only a passing public reference to Kashmir -- and that too only to urge the leaders of both India and Pakistan to work it out between themselves.
 What Pakistan got instead was affirmation of its standing as a vital ally in the war on terrorism and what many here will interpret as modest blessing of President Pervez Musharraf's brand of democracy, despite Mr. Bush's nudge to conduct transparent elections next year. 
 Likewise, Indian officials point out that strategic ties with Washington can help India achieve its aspirations on the world stage -- chief among them, ending the country's nuclear isolation in the world and yielding the legitimacy it has long sought as a nuclear weapons state. 
 Mushahid Hussain, a member of the Pakistani Parliament and close to General Musharraf, said at least the new strategic partnership between Pakistan and the United States should yield a ''a peace dividend'' for South Asia. 
 To please two lovers is by nature an impossible task, and in this instance, Mr. Bush did not leave South Asia without leaving a trail of ambivalence -- and even outright anger -- in both countries. 
 And while both India and Pakistan may be grateful in receiving what support Washington has to offer, it was not clear that either nation could embrace all that Mr. Bush expected of his new friends. In India, for starters, Mr. Bush's message of crusading for democracy worldwide raised eyebrows. ''As a global power, India has an historic duty to support democracy around the world,'' is what he told the invitation-only audience here at Purana Qila, a fort, on Friday. He used the word ''democracy'' 16 times in his speech. 
 Ashok K. Mehta, a retired general who writes about India's foreign policy, pointed out that India was not in the habit of spreading democracy, not even in its own neighborhood. ''We would like countries to uphold democratic values but we will not thrust that down their throats,'' is how Mr. Mehta put it, on his way out of the Bush address.
 Indeed, Mr. Bush's list of rogue states -- he mentioned Myanmar, Cuba and Syria in his final speech in New Delhi -- are all among India's friends. Then there was the explicit reference to Iran, as a country ruled by a clerical minority. India has a longstanding and vital relationship with Iran. ''In a world where the Bush administration is perceived in a not very positive light, India is going to have a challenge in structuring its other relationships,'' said Sundeep Waslekar of the Strategic Foresight Group. ''This challenge will be most demonstrated in how we manage our relationship with Iran.'' 
 But India is already marching ahead with deepening its engagement with the military junta that rules natural gas-rich Myanmar, formerly Burma. It has bid, with China, on an oilfield in Syria. Fidel Castro -- and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela -- are regarded here as friends, even if they are not held in the same esteem in the United States. Sachin Pilot, a member of Parliament, put it neatly, ''We agree to disagree.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Air Force One, with President Bush, left New Delhi on Friday for Islamabad. India seemed to have finished ahead of Pakistan after Mr. Bush's trip. (Photo by Gurinder Osan/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); TERRORISM (59%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%) Somini Sengupta; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) KASHMIR (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (78%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%) India; Pakistan; Kashmir and Jammu (India); India

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



115 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE:  And Next I Want to Thank My Hairstylist and Makeup Artist

BYLINE: By IRENE LACHER

 BODY:
SOMETIME around noon today, the hairstylist Ben Skervin will arrive at Keira Knightley's hotel suite and prepare her to be scrutinized, tress by misted tress, by the billion people around the world expected to watch the Oscars tonight.
 Ms. Knightley, a best actress nominee for ''Pride and Prejudice,'' has never been to this event, so Mr. Skervin is particularly keen on creating just the right balance of tried, true and new for the 20-year-old actress.
''Whenever I do her hair, I think it's important to keep her young looking,'' said Mr. Skervin, the London and New York hair stylist who has worked with Ms. Knightley about 15 times and most notably designed the insouciant ponytail she wore at the Toronto Film Festival in September. ''A lot of these young actresses go the wrong way and become too glamorous too soon. So the hair might be pushed a little. But when you see it, you say, 'I look like an enhanced version of myself,' instead of looking in the mirror and saying, 'Who's that drag queen?' ''
 Not a good look on a day when anything the camera captures will be immortalized in photos beamed around the world and stored forever after in cyberspace. 
 While fashion designers approach the Oscars as a global runway from which their names might be uttered into dozens of live microphones, for those in the beauty industry the evening offers subtler, though equally powerful opportunities to make a mark. 
 Beauty companies flood stylists with products in the hope that one might end up on the cheek of an actress and subsequently be described in the pages of a celebrity magazine.
 As for the makeup artists and hairstylists themselves, preparing an actress for the red carpet at the Oscars is the golden ring, promising much higher fees and cementing relationships with celebrities that can earn them lucrative beauty contracts. 
 This morning, by the time Oscar nominees and presenters around Los Angeles are finishing up their complexion-enhancing breakfasts, an elite group of these beauty professionals, who have come from as far away as London and Milan, will be fanning out among hotel suites and homes to tweeze and smudge and braid for fees of $3,500 to $7,500 for 20 minutes to an hour or so of hands-on work. Some might help the actors pick out their dress; others will simply polish their looks and leave. 
 And why does it cost so much to powder a shiny nose and accentuate a pair of eyes? 
 The answer is simple: Because.
 ''The Oscars is basically a commercial for an actress,'' said Kelly Cutrone, owner of People's Revolution, a fashion public relations and branding company in New York. Charlize Theron may have been utterly convincing as the Ugly Girl of 2003's ''Monster,'' but the day the Oscar put its imprimatur on her performance, her red carpet look sent a different message: ''Don't forget I'm a 5-foot-11 knockout.'' 
 ''Hair and makeup can either make or ruin a girl,'' Ms. Cutrone said.
 Whether or not that is true, actresses seem to think it is, which is why most insist that they be powdered and primped by only the highest-paid professionals. Not that they pay for it. In the distorted economics of Hollywood, an actress who earns $10 million or more per picture is generally the last to pay for her own makeup. 
 Professional makeup artists and hairdressers are often written into film contracts, so studios include the fees in their budgets for promotion, which would include Oscar appearances for eligible actresses. 
 But for those actresses walking the red carpet without a nominated film and studio behind them, negotiations get stickier. Their publicists may try to recruit a studio that's handling a new film or one that's releasing a DVD. If that doesn't work, and the beauty pro wants to cultivate the relationship, he or she might do it free as long as expenses are covered. 
 And the best result of procuring these elite professional services? Looking like a flawless version of yourself. Unlike fashion designers, who often intend to make statements with their Oscar fashions, makeup artists and hairstylists say they shy away from being provocative. 
 Scott Andrew, a New York makeup artist who has worked with Hilary Swank about 20 times since her 1999 career-making performance in ''Boys Don't Cry,'' captured the attention of beauty editors at last year's Academy Awards by using the minimal effects. 
 Although beauty editors did take note, Mr. Andrew said that he doesn't get nearly as much attention as fashion designers do and that he thinks that's a good thing. ''It's not as distinctive,'' he said. ''Sometimes hair gets a little more attention than makeup, unless it's a really strong, singular look like an odd shade of lipstick. The makeup shouldn't be the first thing you notice.'' 
 If it is, and distracts from who the actress is, it is often considered a failure. 
 ''The Oscars is not the time to do new things,'' Ms. Cutrone said. ''It's like going to the prom or getting married. You should follow the same rules as you do for bridal. Like putting things in your hair? If Harry Winston is paying you to do it, it makes sense. But wearing a tiara or pearls or having things hanging off your head is not a good idea.''
 In the eyes of those who apply makeup and arrange ponytails for a living, a botched job can derail an actress's career. Ms. Cutrone singled out Mena Suvari's look at the 2000 Oscars, which she called ''a styling nightmare.'' ''She shows up in an Escada beaded dress looking like Nancy Reagan with an updo,'' she said. '' 'Hi. I'm not seducing your husband.' It should have been Marc Jacobs: young, cute, hip. You look at what happened to her, and it was not great.'' 
 On the other hand, the right accent can sell a lot of lipstick. 
 Pati Dubroff, who is Dior Beauty's official celebrity makeup artist, painted Anne Hathaway's lips with Dior Rouge in holiday red for this year's Golden Globes, and within days makeup counters reported that women were bringing in pictures of her and requesting the shade, Ms. Dubroff said. 
 The response was similar after last year's Oscars, when Ms. Dubroff used a new product called Dior Show Powder on Gwyneth Paltrow. 
 ''We never advertised that,'' said Dianne Vavra, Dior Beauty's vice president for public relations. ''It was featured in the celebrity weeklies and the product sold out. It's direct, whereas with fashion, it's difficult to say, Charlize wore a Dior dress on the red carpet. How does it affect sales? It's much easier with beauty. You can pinpoint the sales to the actual product coverage.''
 That Ms. Dubroff played a role in each instance was no accident. Two years ago she was recruited to work for Dior Beauty exclusively, largely because of her success working with actors on magazine covers. For tonight's awards she is doing the makeup for Sandra Bullock as she did for both the Screen Actors Guild awards and the Golden Globes. Of course Oscar beauty is about more than just buzz. It's a specific skill in which the best makeup artists create a look that maximizes a woman's allure but still holds up under lights, cameras and a long evening of action. 
 ''It needs to have staying power and make a photo statement,'' Ms. Dubroff said, ''but not be so much that they feel that they have a mask between them and their life. It has to be refined enough that it won't be packed on but have the oomph to stay on. How that's done, I don't know. I cross my fingers.''
 But in the end, do Hollywood's aristocrats really need the help of their beauty counterparts to put their best face forward or is it just an extravagance?
 ''I think it's overrated,'' said Mr. Andrew, who's nonetheless grateful that he is so much in demand. ''It used to happen occasionally that someone would ask them about their hair and makeup and they'd get embarrassed because they did it themselves. I'd like to see more of that. A lot of actresses are very good at their makeup. I don't know why it's so important for them to be pampered. I guess it's just part of the machine.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STYLE HITS -- Ben Skervin, far left, won raves for Keira Knightley's ponytail, center. Left, Anne Hathaway's lipstick was a hit at the Golden Globes. Her makeup artist, Pati Dubroff, below, also works with Naomi Watts. (Photos by left, Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times
above, Evan Agostini/Getty Images)
(Photo by Mario Anzuoni/Reuters)
 A STYLE MISS? -- Mena Suvari's look at the Oscars in 2000 was criticized. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (86%); FILM (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); FASHION DESIGN (74%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%) Motion Pictures; Academy Awards (Oscars); Cosmetics and Toiletries; Hair

PERSON: KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (90%); ANNE HATHAWAY (57%) Irene Lacher

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (88%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



116 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: To Democrats Hungry for Senate, A Pennsylvania Seat Looks Ripe 

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Pa. 

 BODY:
Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, the third-ranking Republican in the Senate leadership, sums up his race for re-election this year with a paradoxical pride: ''The other side of the aisle wants to beat me more than anything you can possibly imagine,'' he told the Greater Lehigh Valley Auto Dealers Association not long ago.
 Mr. Santorum is almost certainly right. No other race in the nation has so focused the Democratic Party's energy, resources or raw hunger to return to power on Capitol Hill. No other race so captures the Republican Party's vulnerabilities this year, with some public opinion polls consistently showing Mr. Santorum trailing his Democratic opponent, State Treasurer Bob Casey Jr.
Mr. Santorum, 47, has been a brash symbol of the conservative ascendancy since his election to the Senate in 1994, leading the charge on issues like the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act and the partial privatization of Social Security -- enraging liberals all the while. He says he relishes a come-from-behind fight against Mr. Casey, but acknowledges that ''it's not easy being me'' in the current political climate, with a president whose approval ratings are stuck in the 30's. 
 Mr. Casey, 45, is an experienced statewide candidate, the son of a popular former governor, and in some ways the symbol of a new pragmatism in the Democratic Party. National party leaders heavily recruited Mr. Casey to enter this race, despite his long opposition to abortion rights, because, quite simply, they thought he could win.
 In this demographically older, economically anxious state, Mr. Casey is casting Mr. Santorum as a ''rubber stamp'' for Bush administration policies, citing budget cuts on education and Medicare, tax breaks for the rich and substantial budget deficits. ''We're on the wrong road,'' he said. 
 This is a big race -- expected to cost more than $50 million and to attract strategists and advocacy groups from around the country. It is also expected to join the likes of marquee Senate campaigns like Jim Hunt vs. Jesse Helms in North Carolina in 1984, or, more recently, John Thune vs. Tom Daschle, then the Democratic leader, in South Dakota in 2004. 
 Mr. Santorum, in fact, tells his audiences that Democrats consider this ''the revenge of Tom Daschle race.'' 
 The Democrats need a net gain of six seats to recapture the Senate, and this is one of their best shots at a pickup.
 When the race is over, Pennsylvania, a quintessential swing state in national politics, could also help answer some important questions about the parties as they head into the 2008 presidential election: Can the Democratic Party hold an energized liberal base while reaching out to social conservatives? Can the Republican Party win a war of ideas -- on economics, health care, tax cuts -- among middle-class and working-class voters when the social and cultural issues are neutralized?
 The stage was set for this campaign after the 2004 election, when Democrats were still reeling from their losses in the House, the Senate and the White House. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the new chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, was busily recruiting candidates for 2006, and quickly settled on Mr. Casey, a former state auditor general who had just won election as the state treasurer with a record-setting statewide vote.
 Mr. Schumer said he ''got some real flak, particularly in the pro-choice community,'' when he began advancing the Casey candidacy. 
 (Even now, Kate Michelman, the former president of Naral Pro-Choice America, angered over Mr. Casey's support for the confirmation of Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., has indicated that she is pondering an independent candidacy for the seat.) 
 But Mr. Schumer, himself a stalwart supporter of abortion rights, argued, ''Democrats have learned that when you have a good candidate, good in so many ways, that because he or she doesn't agree with the general Democratic Party position on every issue doesn't mean they should be kept outside the tent.''
 There is a novelistic twist here: Mr. Casey's father, Gov. Robert P. Casey, was also an outspoken opponent of abortion and was very much kept outside the tent 14 years ago at the Democratic National Convention -- seated near the rafters, denied an opportunity to speak. 
 In his book, ''Fighting for Life,'' the former governor recalled saying to his wife, ''Let's remember this moment. One day, it's all going to come back around.''
 Mr. Casey died in 2000. His son, when asked if he felt any sense of family vindication, replied, ''I obviously wish he were here to see this race for a lot of reasons, and that's one.'' 
 G. Terry Madonna, director of the Keystone Poll and a political scientist at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., said that Mr. Casey was a threat to Mr. Santorum because he cut into Mr. Santorum's strength among traditional blue-collar voters in Western Pennsylvania and the more socially moderate voters of the Philadelphia suburbs. 
 ''Those suburban voters are more upset with Santorum than they are 'for' Casey,'' Mr. Madonna said. 
 He attributed the suburban disaffection, in large part, to Mr. Santorum's high profile on hot-button cultural issues, including abortion, gay marriage and the intervention of Republican Congressional leaders in the right-to-die case of Terri Schiavo. 
 Mr. Santorum also made headlines last year with his book, ''It Takes a Family,'' which includes a defense of stay-at-home mothers. And Democrats are working hard to tie Mr. Santorum to his party's ethical difficulties.
 For all of that, nobody is counting Mr. Santorum out. A strong campaigner, he is expected to draw heavy national Republican support, has raised more money than Mr. Casey and plans to mount a state-of-the-art political effort with at least 40,000 volunteers. 
 ''We have people making phone calls right now, every night,'' he told the auto dealers.
 Mr. Santorum and his campaign say the polls simply reflect an unhappy national mood. Once he gets the chance to make his case, he said, and remind voters of his leadership on such popular causes as the 1996 welfare overhaul and tax cuts, Mr. Casey's lead will disappear. 
 ''I get a chance to do that once every six years, and then I let The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Morning Call, and everybody else beat my brains in for five years,'' he said.
 He is also keeping a certain distance from the president, in contrast to his full-throated efforts last year on behalf of Mr. Bush's plan to create private investment accounts in Social Security. 
 Mr. Santorum raised questions early on about the deal allowing a Dubai company to take over terminal operations at six American ports, which the Bush administration had cleared.
 Eight months before Election Day, the race is already harsh, with accusations flying about issues like whether Mr. Santorum got a special deal on his home mortgage and whether Mr. Casey is spending enough time on the job in Harrisburg. 
 E-mail traffic from the national campaign committees is heavy, and political blogs are paying close attention.
 Mr. Santorum is scornful of his opponent, arguing that Mr. Casey is ''just hiding behind the name.'' 
 Once the race is fully engaged, he said, ''You have to get on TV, you have to put sentences together.''
 ''He'll have to tell people what he's for,'' he added, ''and at that time, I feel very good.'' 
 He said that Mr. Casey had a strong lead in 2002, in the Democratic primary governor's race against Edward G. Rendell, only to see it disappear inthe final stretch of the campaign. 
 Mr. Casey says Mr. Santorum is simply trying to change the subject. 
 ''You're hearing now the desperate charges of someone who voted with President Bush 98 percent of the time,'' he said, ''and no matter how far he runs, no matter what he says, he can't hide from that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Rick Santorum
Treasurer Bob Casey Jr.
Bob Casey Jr., the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate, greeted supporters yesterday before giving a speech in Philadelphia. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)
 Senator Rick Santorum, a Republican, says Democrats saw his Pennsylvania re-election bid as a chance to avenge Tom Daschle's defeat. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)(pg. 20)Chart/Map: ''''Battle for the Senate . . .''Democrats need a net gain of six seats to take control of the Senate, and the race between Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, and his Democratic opponent, Bob Casey Jr., is considered one of their best shots among this year's most competitive races.Map of the United States highlighting the 2006 SENATE RACES (Most competitive races are outlined)Currently:Democrat: 18 seatsRepublican: 15 seats. . . in a Swing StateVoters in Pennsylvania have rarely elected Democrats as senators, even as they have voted for Democrats for president. The last Democratic senator, Harris Wofford, was elected in 1991 to fill a vacancy created by Senator John Heinz's death. Mr. Wofford was defeated by Mr. Santorum in 1994.Graph tracks MARGIN OF VICTORY IN PENNSYLVANIA SENATE RACES since 1948.(Sources by Cook Political Report, America Votes)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); BUDGETS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ABORTION (68%); MEDICARE (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); TAX LAW (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (56%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) Elections; Election Issues; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (94%); BOB CASEY (92%); TOM DASCHLE (79%); JOHN THUNE (59%) Robin Toner; Rick (Sen) Santorum; Bob Jr (Treasurer) Casey

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Pennsylvania; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006



117 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Hazards of Boom-Time Borrowing

 BODY:
The last recession in the United States ended in November 2001. Since then, labor productivity and business profits have been strong, but wages have barely budged, the personal savings rate has gone negative, and a record share of household income is now spent to pay interest on accumulated debt. 
 Conventional wisdom holds that the housing boom has made up for those problems. But a recent report from the Federal Reserve indicates otherwise. According to the Fed, rapidly rising home values over the past few years have failed to appreciably increase Americans' net worth because much of the higher value was eaten up by borrowing against home equity.
 At the same time, overreliance on a hot housing market -- while stoking the economy in the near term -- appears to have made Americans more vulnerable to the worst potential effects of a housing slowdown. Those would include crushing debt and rising unemployment as a cooling real estate sector dampens consumer spending and job growth. 
 The Fed found that between 2001 and 2004, net worth rose by only 1.5 percent for the median family. That was the second worst three-year stretch since the Fed started keeping track in 1989. The worst period, from 1989 to 1992, occurred when the economy was descending into recession. In contrast, the Fed's current report encompasses the Bush-era economic recovery. 
 As Americans' debt rose, more family income went to paying interest, even as interest rates declined through mid-2004. Families in ''the bottom 80 percent of the income distribution'' were increasingly afflicted by outsized debt service payments and delinquencies of 60 days or more, the report said. 
 Since the report was completed, the Fed has doubled interest rates, to 4.5 percent, and more increases are expected. So debt service will not be getting any easier. There are also more signs that the housing market is downshifting. Government and industry numbers released last week show that home sales fell in January while the supply of unsold houses grew and the pace of price increases slowed -- events that generally presage a leveling off of prices or even a decline. 
 For the typical American family, financial well-being now hangs in an uneasy balance between frothy home values on one side and stagnating wages plus rising debt on the other. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (69%) United States Economy; Editorials; Income; Credit

COMPANY: AMERICAN FAMILY FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



118 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Academic, Heal Thyself

BYLINE: By Camille Paglia. 
Camille Paglia is the university professor of humanities and media studies at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia.

DATELINE: Philadelphia 

 BODY:
WHAT went wrong at Harvard?
 Tomorrow, Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences will meet for the first time since the resignation of the university's president, Lawrence H. Summers, two weeks ago. The dean of Arts and Sciences, William Kirby, resigned in late January, reportedly after clashing with Mr. Summers. When Mr. Summers leaves on July 1, there will be a serious leadership vacuum at Harvard, which has been torn by strife during his short five-year tenure.
Larry Summers, a former Treasury secretary, assumed the presidency with a high sense of mission. Determined to effect change, he took bold and confrontational positions. He endorsed proposals to expand the campus across the Charles River to Allston, attacked anti-Semitism and rampant grade inflation and laudably argued for the return of R.O.T.C. to Harvard.
 But whatever his good intentions, Mr. Summers often inspired more heat than light. His stellar early career as an economics professor did not prepare him for dealing with an ingrown humanities faculty that has been sunk in political correctness for decades. As president, he had a duty to research the tribal creeds and customs of those he wished to convert. Foolishly thinking plain speech and common sense would suffice, he flunked Academic Anthropology 101. 
 While many issues are rumored to have played a role in Mr. Summers's resignation (including charges of favoritism in a messy legal case involving foreign investments), the controversy that will inevitably symbolize his presidency was the manufactured outcry early last year over his glancing reference at a conference to possible innate differences between the sexes in aptitude for science and math. The feminist pressure groups rose en masse from their lavishly feathered nests and set up a furious cackle that led to a 218-to-185 vote of no confidence by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences last March. 
 Instead of welcoming this golden opportunity to introduce the forbidden subject of biology to academic gender studies (where a rigid dogma of social constructionism reigns), Mr. Summers collapsed like a rag doll. A few months later, after issuing one abject apology after another, he threw $50 million at a jerrybuilt program to expand the comfort zone of female scientists and others on campus. That one desperate act of profligate appeasement tells volumes about the climate of persecution and extortion around gender issues at too many American universities. 
 In a widely reported incident four years ago, Mr. Summers's private conversation with Cornel West, one of Harvard's short list of distinguished scholars who have the title of ''university professor'' (because they teach across department lines), resulted in Dr. West angrily decamping to Princeton. Whatever critique of affirmative action Mr. Summers intended was lost in what became a soap opera of hurt feelings and facile accusations of racism. 
 There was a larger issue of campus governance at stake. While it is certainly in Harvard's best interests to ensure that its university professors remain productive at a high scholarly level (the president reportedly slighted Dr. West's recording of a rap CD), it is unclear on what authority Mr. Summers was challenging Dr. West in the first place. The provost, not the president, is the chief academic officer of any university. But Harvard reinstituted a provost only in the early 1990's, and the weakness of that position is suggested by the provost's near invisibility through the public battles of the Summers regime.
 The ideological groupthink of Harvard's humanities faculty does patent disservice to the undergraduates in their charge, but it is the faculty alone that should properly determine curriculum and academic policy, a responsibility that descends from the birth of European universities in the Middle Ages. Over the past 40 years, there has been a radical expansion of administrative bureaucracies on American college campuses that has distorted the budget and turned education toward consumerism, a checkbook alliance with parents who are being bled dry by grotesquely exorbitant tuitions. 
 Mr. Summers's strategic blunders unfortunately took the spotlight off entrenched political correctness and changed the debate to academic power: who has it, and how should it be exercised? Nationwide, campus administrations faced with factionalized or obdurate faculties have in some cases taken matters into their own hands by creating programs or reducing and even eliminating departments. The trend is disturbingly away from faculty power.
 Hence more is at stake in the Harvard affair than merely one overpriced campus with an exaggerated reputation. Support for Larry Summers was strong among Harvard undergraduates and outside the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, which constitutes only one of Harvard's many colleges and professional schools. The Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz protested that Mr. Summers had been removed by ''a coup d'etat.'' But by his failure to provide a systematic rationale for his words and actions, Mr. Summers gave the impression of governing by whim and impulse. The leader of so huge and complex an institution cannot be a whirling dervish.
 IT now remains to be seen whether Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences is capable of self-critique. Will its members acknowledge their own insularity and excesses, or will they continue down the path of smug self-congratulation and vanity? Harvard's reputation for disinterested scholarship has been severely gored by the shadowy manipulations of the self-serving cabal who forced Mr. Summers's premature resignation. That so few of the ostensibly aggrieved faculty members deigned to speak on the record to The Crimson, the student newspaper, illustrates the cagey hypocrisy that permeates fashionable campus leftism, which worships diversity in all things except diversity of thought.
 If Harvard cannot correct itself in this crisis, it will signal that academe cannot be trusted to reform itself from within. There is a rising tide of off-campus discontent with the monolithic orthodoxies of humanities departments. David Horowitz, a 1960's radical turned conservative, has researched the lopsided party registration of humanities professors (who tend to be Democrats like me) and proposed an ''academic bill of rights'' to guarantee fairness and political balance in the classroom. The conservative radio host Sean Hannity regularly broadcasts students' justifiable complaints about biased teachers and urges students to take recording devices to class to gather evidence.
 These efforts to hold professors accountable are welcome and bracing, but the danger is that such tactics can be abused. Tenure owes its very existence to past intrusions by state legislatures in the curricular business of state universities. If politicians start to meddle in campus governance, academic freedom will be the victim. And when students become snitches, we are heading toward dictatorship by Mao's Red Guards or Hitler Youth.
 Over the last three decades of trendy poststructuralism and postmodernism, American humanities professors fell under the sway of a ruthless guild mentality. Corruption and cronyism became systemic, spread by the ostentatious conference circuit and the new humanities centers of the 1980's. Harvard did not begin that blight but became an extreme example of it. Amid the ruins of the Summers presidency, there is a tremendous opportunity for recovery and renewal of the humanities. Which way will Harvard go?


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stephen Doyle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); WOMEN (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); RACE & RACISM (66%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); RELIGION (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%) Colleges and Universities; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Women; Teachers and School Employees; Science and Technology; Mathematics; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (93%) Camille Paglia; Lawrence H (Dr) Summers

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



119 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Zuckerman, Bound To The News

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
MORTIMER B. ZUCKERMAN knows his way around a transaction. Sitting in his office on the 18th floor of 599 Lexington, he looks out on about four million square feet of real estate -- and owns four million more in the city beyond -- that attest to his acumen at buying and selling hard assets.
 But Mr. Zuckerman has ambitions that bricks and mortar cannot fulfill, so he also owns The Daily News, the paper with the biggest circulation within New York, as well as U.S. News and World Report, the struggling newsweekly. His willingness to finance good journalism has landed him on television, put him in the thick of policy debates and allowed him to bang the drum on behalf of the state of Israel. 
The media business, at least the way he wants to play it, is not a transaction game like real estate. To make The Daily News behave like a real, actual business, Mr. Zuckerman has changed editors, executives and strategies, with not much to show for it. If you want the influence that being a media baron allows, then you have to buy and hold, sucking up the pathetic margins all the while. 
 The lack of economic logic in the media business drives Mr. Zuckerman crazy. Mr. Zuckerman bought The Daily News out of bankruptcy in 1993 for $36 million, gradually stabilizing and modernizing a very distressed property to the point that it makes money (albeit less and less). 
 But out among the buildings that he owns in Manhattan, the tabloid that people talk about is The New York Post. And that drives Mr. Zuckerman even crazier. How is it that a paper with half the ads, a hemorrhaging balance sheet and what he thinks are questionable journalistic standards has more cachet?
 ''It is always difficult to have a noneconomic competitor,'' he sighed. ''I will grant you that it has not been easy.''
 ROGER that. While The Daily News lost 40,000 in daily circulation in the last two years, The New York Post gained 20,000. As of the last Audit Bureau of Circulations statement in September, The Daily News was still on top --barely -- with a total average paid circulation of 688,584 to The Post's 672,731. (And if The News hadn't successfully appealed after the bureau called into question 30,000 of its total, the paper's status as New York's hometown favorite would have toppled.) 
 If you talk circulation with Mr. Zuckerman, he will endlessly argue the nuances of the numbers, but he will not concede that he is losing ground, only that he is ''challenged'' by what he suggests are the competition's lower standards.
 ''The Daily News is not a pure tab. I have refused to take it downmarket and become a tab in the sense of a lot of sexual exploitation or exploitation of violence,'' he said. ''We are trying to be serious about being a centrist paper, both in terms of the editorial pages and the way we cover the news.''
 Seriousness, of course, is in the eye of the beholder. Last week, the slaying of Imette St. Guillen, the John Jay College graduate student, with its talk of a ''mummy vic,'' and ''city beauty slain by beast,'' brought out The News' inner tabloid. The paper, which has had three editors in three years, often veers between broadsheet sobriety and Fleet Street sensationalism; its current editor, Martin Dunn, is a veteran editor from Britain who worked for the News Corporation.
 The problem is that The Daily News competes against a paper that wakes up every day knowing exactly what it is. The New York Post's tangy to toxic mix of gossip and media news makes it a must-read among certain people -- the kind that Mr. Zuckerman hangs out with -- and it's hard to put a price tag on that. (Although Mr. Zuckerman certainly tries: he pointed to news accounts that placed losses at The New York Post at $70 million a year.) 
 ''There is a difference between being a bad time and being a difficult time,'' he said. ''This is a difficult time, but it is a wonderful time to put out a paper.''
 Magazines have not been much kinder. The Atlantic Monthly may have put Mr. Zuckerman on better guest lists, but it bled money and he finally sold it to David Bradley in 1999. U.S. News and World Report, which was once a category leader in ad pages, has withered and the staff has been cut to the bone. An attempt to restart Radar magazine wilted after just three issues, and 25 Hours, an effort to create a gossip and celebrity magazine at The Daily News, flopped as well. 
 There have been bright spots. He personally negotiated the sale of Fast Company to Thomas Middelhoff for more than $360 million just before the dot-com bust in 2000. Even The Daily News, which he bought for a song and a share of its liabilities, is worth far more now than when he purchased it. 
 With a net worth of $1.6 billion dollars (as estimated by Forbes), Mr. Zuckerman certainly has the wherewithal to keep up the fight. But then again, so does Rupert Murdoch, who is said to be worth $7.8 billion and has an entire media empire to help prop up The New York Post. If The Post were to take the tabloid crown from The Daily News, it would be almost more than Mr. Zuckerman could bear. 
 ''A head-to-head between tabloids is as New York as cheesecake. Fortunately we have two owners who are willing to sink their money into it,'' said John Morton, a longtime newspaper analyst. ''It would be a terrible thing if it went away, and as a newspaper lover, I hope they just keep doing it.''
 Mr. Zuckerman, who said that he expected his 8-year-old daughter Abigail to one day serve as the publisher of The Daily News, knew going in that publishing an embattled daily carried chronic costs. He just didn't bargain for coming up against someone with more vanity and money than he had.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PAID CIRCULATION (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%) Newspapers

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Daily News; New York Post

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) David Carr; Rupert Murdoch; Mortimer B Zuckerman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



120 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 473 words

 BODY:

HOT SEAT -- Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, is expected to take the stand as a prosecution witness in the trial of Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling in Houston. The question hovering over his testimony is whether prosecutors will be able to use him to prove a broader conspiracy at Enron or the defense will be able to convince the jury that the fraudulent buck stopped with Mr. Fastow. (Monday.) 


BOOK 'EM -- The literary trial of this century (so far) continues in London as two authors of the book, ''The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail'' claim that the writer Dan Brown appropriated much of their work for his phenomenal best seller, ''The Da Vinci Code.'' For media companies, the trial is not all British legal comedy: the outcome could bar Random House from continuing to sell the book in England and Columbia Pictures from releasing its movie adaptation, starring Tom Hanks, there as well.

ANIMATED -- Before its pending acquisition by Disney, the animation powerhouse Pixar will report its quarterly earnings. (Tuesday.) Pixar's chief rival in feature animation, DreamWorks Animation, also reports this week. (Thursday.) DreamWorks will release its next feature, ''Over the Hedge,'' later this year.

RING THEIR BELL -- Like a bartender who decides it's safe to take a drink, the New York Stock Exchange is finally getting in on the fun. More than 200 years after stocks were first traded in Lower Manhattan, the Big Board itself will become a publicly traded company under the symbol NYX. Judging by the success of other markets that have gone public, seat holders could see a windfall. (Wednesday.)

GUSHER -- With oil spigots turned to full since Hurricane Katrina, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) will meet to consider what to do next. With both prices and demand still high, OPEC is expected to maintain current production levels. (Wednesday.)

PAPER MONEY -- First-round bids are due for the newspaper giant Knight Ridder, the publisher of 32 papers including The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Miami Herald, The San Jose Mercury News and The Kansas City Star. Proving that there is still money in papers despite all the bad industry headlines, several private equity companies, including Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, have already expressed interest and Gannett is expected to make a bid as well. (Thursday.)

JOBS -- Economists will be closely watching the unemployment numbers for February after unexpectedly strong employment gains in the previous three months. As a result, the unemployment level was at 4.7 percent, its lowest level in more than four years. (Friday.)

ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- Factory orders for January (Monday); consumer credit for January (Tuesday); revised fourth-quarter productivity (Tuesday); trade deficit for January (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (92%); WITNESSES (91%); ANIMATED FILMS (91%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CARTELS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); TESTIMONY (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); LITERATURE (75%); PUBLISHING (75%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); FILM (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (65%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (62%); CONSUMER CREDIT (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (69%); KKR & CO LP (62%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (69%); KKR (NYSE) (62%); BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (55%); TOM HANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



121 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: A Soul Adrift in Texas, Looking for a Place to Nest

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Another voyaging soul set in motion by Horton Foote has reappeared on a New York stage. Just as Mrs. Carrie Watts, the dauntless heroine of ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' is preparing to board her last bus, along comes Mrs. Georgette Thomas, a younger but likewise indomitable woman, seeking to put down roots in a small but affecting staging of ''The Traveling Lady'' at Ensemble Studio Theater.
 This new production of a revised version of Mr. Foote's 1954 play began life way, way off Broadway, at Baylor University in Waco, Tex., as part of its first Foote festival in 2004. Although cast with professional actors, the Ensemble Studio version is produced in association with Baylor and directed by the head of the college's graduate theater program, Marion Castleberry, who is also the founder of the festival and of the Horton Foote Society. 
Like ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' which is of roughly the same vintage (it was first produced in New York in 1953), ''The Traveling Lady'' is a delicately drawn portrait of an anxious spirit in search of home. A spell of trouble comes to Harrison, Tex., the fictional locus of much of Mr. Foote's work, when Georgette (Margot White) and her young daughter, Margaret Rose (Quincy Confoy), descend on the welcoming front porch of Clara Breedlove (Rochelle Oliver), seeking a more permanent refuge.
 Georgette is looking to set up housekeeping in a new town, and is awaiting the imminent release of her husband, Henry (Jamie Bennett), from the nearby penitentiary. What she doesn't know is that Henry has already arrived in Harrison, his hometown. A binge drinker who had gone to jail for brawling, he had fallen off the wagon again, but is being kept on the straight and narrow by Mrs. Breedlove's neighbor, Mrs. Tillman (Alice McLane), the town's tireless reformer of lost souls. The action of the play depicts the squall whipped up when Henry and Margaret are reunited and the ne'er-do-well's worst instincts are aroused by his sense of guilt.
 Ms. White's performance as Georgette, a role originally created by the incomparable Kim Stanley, is likably simple and sincere, infused with a bright tenderness. Georgette's hidden desperation is revealed in the brittle, ingratiating smiles she beams at almost everyone she meets. The embarrassment of need and a natural sensitivity have sharpened her instincts for trouble, so those smiles tend to be accompanied by a look of pleading anxiousness in her blue eyes.
 Georgette is adrift, without the sustaining bonds of human society; her husband is absent and townsfolk look at her askance. The tension between the need for solitude and the need for companionship is a theme delicately woven throughout this finely detailed play. (The original version, which ran only briefly on Broadway, was criticized by some as being too diffuse.)
 It's announced in the play's first line -- ''Now you come on home, mama!'' -- sung from offstage by Sitter Mavis (Carol Goodheart) to her straying mother (a wonderfully sour Lynn Cohen), who has a positive mania for getting away from her beloved daughter. Throughout the play, directed with intelligence and care by Mr. Castleberry, characters are coming together or moving apart, being found or getting lost, looking for company or, for reasons they cannot define, seeking to lose it.
 Slim Murray, Clara's brother, who takes an instant shine to Georgette, is haunted by the mystery of his late wife's indifference. She ran off shortly after they married and even on her deathbed couldn't abide his company, although they'd been the town sweethearts for years. Slim is played with fine economy and grace by Stan Denman, who is moonlighting here: his regular job is teaching in the Baylor theater department. Mr. Denman delivers Slim's monologue about his marriage with a sense of confusion and sorrow that is beautifully calibrated.
 Mr. Bennett is almost too boyish-looking to be convincing as a soul-sick drunkard. Perhaps that's why he resorts too easily to overwrought mannerism in the lacerating scene in which, dazed with booze and shame, Henry seeks forgiveness from his wife and tries to explain his affliction. He can only come up with a few pitiful words: ''I swear to my Maker I want to do right. But I'm weak. I'm just plain weak.''
 Mr. Foote is often categorized as a regional specialist, but the ailments of the spirit he diagnoses are universal ones, rooted less in the specific American territory his characters inhabit than in the unwieldy shape of the human soul. He is, however, a playwright with an almost peerless sense of place who writes movingly of men and women who can't quite find their own.

The Traveling Lady

By Horton Foote; directed by Marion Castleberry; sets by Maruti Evans; lighting by Jason Jeunnette; costumes by Maggie Lee-Burdorff; sound by Graham Johnson; stage manager, Angrette McCloskey; assistant director, Daniel Inouye; producer, Peter Marsh; associate producers, Robert Askins and Marco Jo Clate. Presented by the Ensemble Studio Theater, Curt Dempster, founder and artistic director, in association with Baylor University. At 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. Through March 19. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

WITH: Lynn Cohen (Mrs. Mavis), Stan Denman (Slim Murray), Frank Girardeau (Judge Robedaux), Margot White (Georgette Thomas), Quincy Confoy (Margaret Rose), Rochelle Oliver (Clara Breedlove), Carol Goodheart (Sitter Mavis), Alice McLane (Mrs. Tillman), Jamie Bennett (Henry Thomas) and Matthew Conlon (Sheriff).


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Lynn Cohen, Margot White and Quincy Confoy. (Photo by Carol Rosegg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (83%) Ensemble Studio Theater

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Horton Foote; Marion Castleberry; Lynn Cohen; Margot White; Quincy Confoy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



122 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Scant Drop Seen in Abortions if Parents Are Told

BYLINE: By ANDREW LEHREN and JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
For all the passions they generate, laws that require minors to notify their parents or get permission to have an abortion do not appear to have produced the sharp drop in teenage abortion rates that some advocates hoped for, an analysis by The New York Times shows. 
 The analysis, which looked at six states that introduced parental involvement laws in the last decade and is believed to be the first study to include data from years after 1999, found instead a scattering of divergent trends.
For instance, in Tennessee, the abortion rate went down when a federal court suspended a parental consent requirement, then rose when the law went back into effect. In Texas, the rate fell after a notification law went into effect, but not as fast as it did in the years before the law. In Virginia, the rate barely moved when the state introduced a notification law in 1998, but fell after the requirement was changed to parental consent in 2003.
 Since the United States Supreme Court recognized states' rights to restrict abortion in 1992, parental involvement legislation has been a cornerstone in the effort to reduce abortions. Such laws have been a focus of divisive election campaigns, long court battles and grass-roots activism, and are now in place in 34 states. Most Americans say they favor them. 
 ''It's one of the few areas that the U.S. Supreme Court has allowed states to legislate, so it's become a key for lowering the abortion rate,'' said Mary Spaulding Balch, director of state legislation for the National Right to Life Committee. Ms. Balch said she believed that consent laws were effective.
 Yet the Times analysis of the states that enacted laws from 1995 to 2004 -- most of which had low abortion rates to begin with -- found no evidence that the laws had a significant impact on the number of minors who got pregnant, or, once pregnant, the number who had abortions.
 A separate analysis considered whether the existence or absence of a law could be used to predict whether abortions went up or down. It could not. The six states studied are in the South and West: Arizona, Idaho, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. (A seventh state, Oklahoma, also passed a parental notification law in this period, but did not gather abortion data before 2000.)
 Supporters of the laws say they promote better decision-making and reduce teenage abortions; opponents say they chip away at abortion rights and endanger young lives by exposing them to potentially violent reaction from some parents. 
 But some workers and doctors at abortion clinics said that the laws had little connection with the real lives of most teenagers, and that they more often saw parents pressing their daughters to have abortions than trying to stop them. And many teenagers say they never considered hiding their pregnancies or abortion plans from their mothers. 
 ''I would have told my mother anyway,'' said a 16-year-old named Nicole, who waited recently at a clinic in Allentown, Pa., a state that requires minors to get the permission of just one parent. Nicole's mother and father are divorced, and it was her mother she went to for permission to have an abortion.
 ''She was the first person I called,'' Nicole said. ''She's like a best friend to me.'' 
 Abortion rates have been dropping nationwide since the mid-1980's, most precipitously for teenagers. But in three states -- Arizona, Idaho and Tennessee -- the percentage of pregnant minors who had abortions rose slightly after the consent laws went into effect. 
 When the Times study compared the first full year after a state began enforcing a parental law with the last full year before the law, it found that abortions among minors dropped an average of 9 percent. But in the same period, the rates for pregnant 18- and 19-year-olds, who were not affected by the law, dropped by 5 percent, suggesting that most of the drop among minors was associated with other factors that affected minors and adults alike.
 ''There are ongoing trends that are pushing both birth rates and abortion rates down significantly, and those larger trends are more important than the effect of these laws,'' said Ted Joyce, an economist at Baruch College in New York who has studied parental involvement laws. He found they had limited effects on small subgroups of minors but little impact over all. 
 Of the remaining decline in teenage abortion rates in the Times study, Dr. Joyce said that some of it might be attributed to minors going out of state for abortions. The health departments in these states do not track data on such abortions, but in three previous studies of states where such data were available, completed before 1991, two found that any drop in minors' abortions was matched by an increase in minors getting abortions out of state. 
 Previous research on the effects of parental notification laws has been slender and has produced contradictory conclusions. All were hampered by inconsistencies in the ways states gather and report data. 
 The Times analysis was limited by its focus on just six states, but it avoided the possible distortions of including states that gather data in inconsistent ways. 
 Phillip B. Levine, an economics professor at Wellesley College, examined nationwide survey results from 1985 to 1996, a time when many parental involvement laws were put in place, and found that the laws were associated with about one-eighth of the total drop in minors' abortions in those states. Much of the drop was associated with other factors, which might include the economy, availability of abortion, changes in mores and other trends. ''It's not surprising it's not popping out,'' Dr. Levine said of the small drop found in the Times analysis. ''There is nothing overwhelmingly staggering'' in the change associated with the laws. 
 Supporters of parental involvement laws say they allow parents to help their children make an important health care decision, as parents would on any other surgical procedure.
 For Cathi Harrod, interim president of the Center for Arizona Policy, who lobbied for 15 years for her state's parental consent law, getting minors to involve their parents in their medical decisions was reason enough for the laws, whatever the impact on overall abortion rates. Arizona's law went into effect in 2003.
 Ms. Harrod said she believed that there was a groundswell of women who have had regrets about their own abortions and that as they made their feelings known, ''we think the numbers will go down as minors learn more about their options.'' Either way, she said, her organization will push for stricter standards and more public accountability for judicial bypass through access to judges' records.
 But providers interviewed in 10 states with parental involvement laws all said that of the minors who came into their clinics, parents were more often the ones pushing for an abortion, even against the wishes of their daughters. 
 ''I see far more parents trying to pressure their daughters to have one,'' said Jane Bovard, owner of the Red River Women's Clinic in Fargo, N.D., a state where a minor needs consent from both parents. ''As a parent myself, I can understand. But I say to parents, 'You force her to have this abortion, and I can tell you that within the next six months she's going to be pregnant again.' ''
 Renee Chelian, director of Northland Family Planning Centers in the Detroit area, said she had had to call the police on parents who wanted their daughters to have abortions, ''because they threaten physical violence on the kids.'' 
 Ms. Chelian added that the laws might have unseen effects, including driving some teenagers to try to abort their pregnancies on their own.
 ''Kids talk among themselves,'' she said. ''When we tell them they need to go to court or tell their parents, that's when they tell us there's a Web site'' for chemicals or herbal remedies that claims to induce abortions. 
 Nearly all state parental involvement laws allow for minors to bypass their parents by going through a judge. Providers interviewed in 10 states all said that the process was generally not cumbersome, but that some girls would be afraid to go to court.
 For Nicole, the 16-year-old in the Allentown clinic, the hard part was telling her estranged father. 
 ''It was my choice to tell him,'' she said. ''It hurt him, but he understands and is there for me. So in a way it brought us closer together.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cathi Harrod said that getting parents involved in minors' medical decisions was reason enough for Arizona to pass an abortion consent law. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)
Jane Bovard, who runs an abortion clinic in North Dakota, said many parents were urging their daughters to have abortions. (Photo by Dan Koeck for The New York Times)(pg. A18)Chart: ''Effects of Notification and Consent Laws in Six States''When parental involvement laws take effect, they do not significantly change the long-term trends in what happens when teens become pregnant, based on data from the six states that introduced such laws since 1995 and that also track pregnancies and abortions. The rates here show the percent of abortions among pregnancies, excluding miscarriages and stillbirths.ARIZONA: Consent law enforcement begins in 2003.IDAHO : Consent law takes effect in 2000.SOUTH DAKOTA: Notification law enacted in 1997.TENNESSEE: Consent law in place in 1995, enjoined in 1996 and reinstated in 2000.TEXAS: Notification law begins in 2000.VIRGINIA: Notification law begins in 1998
 consent law in 2003.Graphs track percent of abortions for pregnancies for the states listed above since 1995.For all but Idaho, the numbers are for the residents of the state, and the abortions or births happen in the state. Idaho tracks only occurrences, so its numbers include a small number of those from out of state.When abortions are compared versus census estimates for appropriate age groups, the trends are similar.(Sources by State health departments)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PARENTING (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (73%); LITIGATION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%) Abortion; Law and Legislation; States (US); Abortion; Election Issues ; Suits and Litigation; Public Opinion; Abortion

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%)

PERSON: Andrew W Lehren; John Leland

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Arizona; Idaho; South Dakota; Tennessee; Texas; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



123 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Algeria to Free Jailed Islamists Under Amnesty

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: ALGIERS, March 5 

 BODY:
Algeria will complete the release this week, under an amnesty, of 2,629 Islamists jailed during civil strife that lasted more than a decade, the justice minister was quoted as saying Sunday. 
 The minister, Tayeb Belaiz, told the government-controlled newspaper El Moudjahid that 150 former rebels walked free from prisons across the country, in a first batch of releases on Saturday as part of a drive for national reconciliation.
 The amnesty, approved by the government on Feb. 21, also gave Islamic guerrillas fighting the authorities six months to surrender and receive a pardon, provided they were not responsible for massacres, rapes and the bombings of public places.
 Officials estimate about 1,000 guerrillas are still active in Algeria, most of them members of the radical Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat. The group is on the American list of foreign terrorist organizations and is believed to have links with Al Qaeda.
 Algeria plunged into brutal civil unrest early in 1992 after the military-backed authorities canceled a parliamentary election that Islamists were expected to win.
 The country continues to have sporadic riots to protest social problems, including an acute housing shortage and unemployment. 
 Hundreds of people went on a rampage on Sunday, looting and burning a state bank outside Algiers and clashing with security forces after a youth had died in police custody, residents said.
 Several protesters and riot police officers were injured in the clashes, which followed the death of the young man at a police station in the coastal town of Zeralda, about 20 miles west of Algiers, they said.
 The violence during the period of Algeria's civil strife claimed about 150,000 lives. It also caused $20 billion in economic losses, as a result of a sabotage campaign by Islamic rebels.
 Thousands of Islamic guerrillas have given themselves up since a partial amnesty in January 2000. The last prisoner releases were in 1999.
 The new amnesty offers compensation for victims of the conflict and families of disappeared people, as well as aid for families of rebels killed in the fighting. It also provides compensation for people who lost their jobs because they were believed to be linked to militants.
 Under the pardon, the military will be protected from prosecution for any human rights abuses.
 Human rights groups and families say many of the thousands of people who disappeared were abducted by the security forces. Government officials have said that many of those who disappeared actually joined the guerrillas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMNESTY (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RIOTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PARDONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); PRISONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (75%); RELIGION (75%); APPROVALS (73%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); GENOCIDE (60%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (52%) Amnesties and Pardons; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Freedom and Human Rights; Terrorism; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: SALAFIST GROUP FOR PREACHING & COMBAT (83%); AL-QAEDA (56%) Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat

PERSON: Tayeb (Min) Belaiz

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Algeria; Algeria

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



124 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: A Terror Case That Resonates Close to Home

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
In the back seat of a tan Toyota, Shahawar Matin Siraj fidgets nervously. He is trying to decide whether to help bomb a subway station in New York.
 Mr. Siraj, a 23-year-old Pakistani immigrant, says he does not want people to die. He needs time to think. He also wants to ask his mother's permission before he can move forward.
An older man in the front seat sighs. ''The other time you said different, now you say different,'' the man says in thickly accented English. 
 The moment, which was captured for the New York Police Department in August 2004 by a video camera placed in the car's dashboard, may be central to a criminal case against Mr. Siraj. 
 Days after the encounter was recorded, Mr. Siraj and another young man shown in the video, James Elshafay, were arrested and charged in federal court with conspiring to blow up the subway station at Herald Square. The older man in the car, identified by a defense lawyer as Osama Daoudi, told Mr. Siraj and Mr. Elshafay that he belonged to an Islamic ''brotherhood.'' In fact, he had been working as a paid police informer.
 Little evidence from the case, which is set for trial in April, has emerged publicly in the 18 months since the arrests. But the video of the defendants, along with recent court testimony and interviews with lawyers and relatives of Mr. Siraj, offers glimpses into the story that is likely to unfold in court.
 The arrests on Aug. 27 came days before the Republican National Convention in New York. The police said that Mr. Siraj and Mr. Elshafay had sketched diagrams of the station and had been recorded discussing other New York targets, though the authorities also stressed that the men had never obtained explosives and were not affiliated with any known terrorist group.
 The defendants were motivated by the wish to cause economic harm and disruption, but also said they wanted to avoid killing people, according to the criminal complaint.
 Mr. Elshafay was not indicted, and may be cooperating with the prosecution, said Mr. Siraj's lawyer, Martin R. Stolar. Mr. Elshafay's lawyer and mother both declined to comment on the case.
 Mr. Siraj's relatives and lawyers assert that he was entrapped by the informer, whose identity the police would not confirm. The man offered to give Mr. Siraj money so he could fly to Pakistan to find a bride, according to information turned over to the defense by prosecutors last fall.
 But during a hearing in January, Mr. Siraj testified that on the day of his arrest, he admitted that the plot to bomb the subway station had been his idea. 
 Mr. Siraj came to Queens from Karachi, Pakistan, with his family in June 1999. His parents said that he never spoke of religious or political causes. They described him as kindhearted and boyish: he kept pet turtles at his home in Queens, and loved cartoons.
 When news of the arrests emerged, Mr. Siraj's parents wondered if the police had the wrong man. Mr. Siraj's mother, Shaheena Parveen, said she fainted when she saw the video. 
 ''I just can't understand what happened to him,'' she said. 
 It was not the first time Mr. Siraj had been arrested: Two months earlier, he was charged with assault. The police said he fought with a customer at an Islamic bookstore in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, in a dispute over a phone card.
 Mr. Siraj worked at the store while taking night classes in computer networking. He seemed to have little interest in Islam, said his parents. But nearly a year before his arrest in the subway plot, he began spending time in the company of the Egyptian man who was later revealed to be working for the police. The two prayed together at the Islamic Society of Bay Ridge, the mosque next to the bookstore.
 The older man dropped by the store almost daily and often drove Mr. Siraj home to Queens, said Mr. Siraj's parents. The informer did not begin recording their conversations until eight months later, and by then, argued Mr. Stolar, the man had steered Mr. Siraj onto a path of intolerance. 
 The informer claimed to be battling liver cancer and told Mr. Siraj that Jewish doctors at a hospital in New York had refused him treatment because he was Muslim, said Ms. Parveen. She also said the man had shown her son photos of prisoners being abused at Abu Ghraib.
 During the 92-minute-video, shown to a reporter by Mr. Stolar, the three men seem well acquainted. Their conversation jogs between tension and laughter.
 At one point, the informer retrieves two backpacks from the trunk. Mr. Siraj and Mr. Elshafay examine the bags and discuss whether a bomb would fit inside.
 Before the end of the video, Mr. Siraj agrees to help plan the attack but not to handle any bombs. Mr. Elshafay says he is willing to plant the bomb, and offers to dress ''like a Jew.''
 ''They'll never check a Jew,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); LAWYERS (88%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INDICTMENTS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RELIGION (66%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (54%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Informers; Recordings (Video); Subways; Transit Systems ; Terrorism

PERSON: Andrea Elliott; Shahawar Matin Siraj; James Elshafay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



125 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Detractors Of BlackBerry See Trouble Past Patents

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, March 5 

 BODY:
For years, Wall Street loved just about everything about Research in Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry, except the onerous, lingering infringement lawsuit filed by NTP, a patent holding company, over R.I.M.'s wireless e-mail system. 
 So it might have thought that settling with NTP on Friday for $612.5 million -- and the widespread relief among BlackBerry enthusiasts that service would not be suspended -- would give them some breathing room with investors and analysts.
Some think otherwise. ''The patent case was a whole bunch of noise,'' said Ellen Dailey, a Forrester Research analyst. ''Right now, R.I.M. is in danger of relegating itself to becoming a niche e-mail player.''
 David Schatsky of Jupiter Research echoed that view. ''The lawsuit was an active threat to R.I.M.,'' he said. ''But they now have to face other, long-term challenges. Microsoft appears determined to be a serious competitor in its markets.'' 
 These reactions are familiar ones for R.I.M., a onetime upstart that has received only limited respect, even after signing up about 3.2 million Americans, 70 percent of the United States market for wireless e-mail. Almost from the beginning of the BlackBerry, forecasters have predicted that its maker, based in Waterloo, Ontario, would be swept away by larger competitors, particularly Microsoft.
 James L. Balsillie, the chairman of R.I.M., agrees with critics and some competitors that broader changes, including the long-delayed arrival of higher-speed wireless networks and a renewed mobile software effort from Microsoft, will force growth and changes in the market for wireless hand-held devices. 
 But Mr. Balsillie disagrees that those changes will leave Research in Motion out in the cold. ''Our competitors keep going down the same path they've always gone down,'' he said. ''When 95 percent of camera-phone customers don't buy a data plan, it shows that they haven't cracked the code.'' 
 What is now at issue, according to analysts, are the questions of where new wireless e-mail customers will come from and what kind of additional services they may demand. 
 The bulk of R.I.M.'s business has come from corporate information technology departments. As senior executives demanded BlackBerries, R.I.M. focused on creating a closed, easy-to-install system that featured high security so that computer systems managers had little excuse for denying their bosses' requests. That BlackBerries were spartan devices, avoiding fancy software, cameras and other add-ons, only seemed to increase that kind of appeal.
 But most people in the wireless business, including those at R.I.M., recognize that future growth will have to come from outside the executive suites. And R.I.M.'s competitors hope that as wireless e-mail moves down corporate ranks to delivery vans and field-service technicians, customers will be looking for the kind of PC-like applications that BlackBerries do not offer. 
 ''Voice is, of course, a killer app and e-mail is a killer app,'' said Tara Griffin, a vice president of Palm, maker of the Treo and a R.I.M. rival. ''But customers are anxious to get beyond e-mail.'' 
 Danny Shader, chief executive of Good Technology, a leading wireless e-mail software alternative to BlackBerry, agreed, saying that R.I.M.'s coolness to outside developers will come back to haunt it. ''This is a beginning of a 10-year shift in computing,'' he said. ''Everything that can possibly be done on a hand-held will be done on a hand-held.''
 Ms. Griffin's sales pitch to customers who want to do more with hand-helds is based on both hardware and software. Palm's Treo hand-held device can be easily fitted with accessories -- allowing, for example, health care workers to scan bar codes on patient bracelets to summon medical records. 
 When it comes to new software, Mr. Shader argues that most developers will be inclined to write programs for Windows Mobile, Palm's operating system or Symbian, a popular cellphone system, rather than BlackBerry. That is partly because the BlackBerry, which uses a variation of Java, is less of a standard. 
 ''Microsoft provides us with great developer kits and software tools,'' said Mr. Shader, whose company was sued by R.I.M. for patent infringement in 2003.
 ''Let's give BlackBerry its due,'' he said. ''It's a completely integrated stack of stuff. If all you want to do is run e-mail on an appliance, then BlackBerry is your choice.''
 Research in Motion has indicated that it will be looking for more sales to general users. One recent deal will bring Google Instant Messaging and Google Maps to BlackBerries. And in an interview last week with Bloomberg News, Michael Lazaridis, president and a co-chief executive of R.I.M., said it was ''inevitable'' that future BlackBerries would include multimedia features.
 Mr. Balsillie, though, said that no one should assume that efforts to sell BlackBerries to consumers were a sign that R.I.M. intended to yield its position in the corporate market.
 His version of the future does not involve adding more and more software to the BlackBerry to allow it to perform new tricks. Mr. Balsillie's future is one modeled on the current BlackBerry e-mail system, which has servers do the heavy lifting and the hand-held device largely acting as a display terminal.
 As an example, he said that companies would use a form of software known as middleware to harvest information from a variety of databases currently in use and repackage it for display on BlackBerries. That would make it possible, for example, for clerks not only to check if something is in a shop's storeroom but also to receive data about coming shipments of the item as well as information about the customer who is asking for it.
 ''The market is now really about figuring out thoughtful relationships to the servers that are already out there,'' Mr. Balsillie said, ''picking and choosing the data you want. ''It's not about 'I want to run these applications' or 'I just want to talk.' That's like saying that all people want is black-and-white television that shows just three networks.''
 Last year, the consulting group Gartner calculated that R.I.M. had eclipsed Palm -- one of the companies that earlier was supposed to destroy it -- as the world's largest vendor of hand-held computers.
 But just before announcing the settlement with NTP on Friday, R.I.M. scaled back its worldwide subscriber gains for the last quarter of 2005 to a range of 620,000 to 630,000 from an earlier forecast of 700,000 to 750,000.
 The end of the patent lawsuit may restore BlackBerry's growth. Certainly, investors reacted optimistically late Friday. In trading after hours, shares of Research in Motion rose $13.78, or more than 19 percent, settling at $85.70.
 Mr. Balsillie acknowledged, though, that no single event would persuade buyers to stick with BlackBerries in a market that is expected to demand more information from wireless gadgets.
 ''The metaphor for this is how do you get someone to fall in love with you,'' he said. ''Well, you do everything you can, and after you've done 20 different things, you find out later that one of them worked.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the settlement of a patent suit against Research in Motion, the creator of the BlackBerry wireless e-mail device, misspelled the surname of a Forrester Research analyst who said the deal would ease concerns among R.I.M.'s customers. (The error was repeated in an article yesterday.) She is Ellen Daley, not Dailey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); PATENT LAW (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (72%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Computers and the Internet; Inventions and Patents; Suits and Litigation; Electronic Mail; Wireless Communication; Blackberries; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (92%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Research in Motion Ltd; Ntp Inc

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (92%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: JAMES BALSILLIE (78%) James Balsillie; Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



126 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Documents on Guantanamo Offer Look at Detainees
Newly released Pentagon documents provide the most detailed information to date about who the detainees held at Guantanamo Bay say they are and the evidence against them. According to their own accounts, the prisoners range from poor Afghan farmers and low-level Arab holy warriors to a Sudanese drug dealer, the son of a former Saudi Army general and a British resident with an Iraqi passport who was arrested in Gambia. The accounts are included in more than 5,000 pages of documents released in response to a lawsuit by The Associated Press. A1

A Plan to Define Israeli Borders 

Israel's acting prime minister, Ehud Olmert, will seek to evacuate additional West Bank settlements and define Israel's permanent borders if his Kadima Party wins this month's national elections, a top ally of Mr. Olmert said. A5

Iran Defiant as Time Runs Low
Iran warned again that it would begin making nuclear fuel on an industrial scale if the United Nations nuclear agency decides to send its case to the Security Council in its meeting today. Iranian nuclear officials stated that any slowdown in production on their part was to alleviate concern, but have no intention of ending the program. A8

Afghan Attacks Canadian G.I.
A Canadian soldier, left, leading a civilian and military mission in a village in Afghanistan, was wounded by an ax-wielding youth during a meeting with village elders to discuss their reconstruction needs. A11

Embattled Leader in Philippines
Filipinos seem quite content to be on President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo's enemies list. Even those who defend her imperiled presidency note that they do not exactly care for her. But it is common to say that Mrs. Arroyo's insurance policy is the absence of a credible successor. And given the limp collapse of what appeared to be a coup attempt a week ago, there seem to be few realistic ideas as to how she would be forced to leave. A11

Avian Flu Challenges Experts
As new outbreaks of bird flu have peppered Europe and Africa in recent weeks, experts are realizing that they still have much to learn about how migrating birds spread the A(H5N1) virus, leaving the continents vulnerable to unexpected outbreaks. A6

Skiing as a Ukraine Town's Hope
A ski resort could be an economic rescue for a village western Ukraine. If investment plans for the next few years are met, Bukovel will be one of the largest ski resorts worldwide. A9

NATIONAL A12-18

Democratic Messages Reflect Party Splits
The scattershot messages delivered by Democratic candidates for Congress reflect what officials in both parties say are multiple vulnerabilities among Republicans on Capitol Hill, as well as President Bush's weakened political condition. But it also reflects splits about what it means to be a Democrat and complicates the basic strategy being pursued by Democratic leaders to capture control of Congress: to turn this election into a national referendum on the party in power, much as Republicans did against Democrats in 1994. A1

Laws Did Not Reduce Abortions
Laws that require minors to notify their parents or get permission to have an abortion do not appear to have produced the sharp drop in teenage abortion rates that some advocates hoped for, an analysis by The New York Times shows. A1

DeLay Is Central Issue in Race
As the Republican primary in Texas approaches, Representative Tom Delay becomes the central issue in the race. He is defending his seat against three Republican challengers, a highly unusual battle for an incumbent. A14

Jewish Leaders to Revisit Ban
The Committee on Jewish Law and Standards, a group of legal experts who set policy for Conservative Judaism, will consider whether to lift their movement's ban on gay rabbis and same-sex unions. In 1992, they declared that Jewish law clearly prohibited commitment ceremonies for same-sex couples and the admission of openly gay people to rabbinical or cantorial schools. A14

Geologist Wins Research Award
A geologist, Walter Alvarez, of the University of California, Berkeley, who proposed the theory that a comet or asteroid smashed into the Earth and killed off the dinosaurs is the winner of a top research award, the Desert Research Institute's silver medallion. He is the 19th recipient of the award and its $20,000 prize. A16

OBITUARIES A19

Seymour Furman
A cardiologist who devised a way to insert pacemakers into patients without performing surgery, he was 74. A19

Machteld J. Mellink
An archaeologist and authority on ancient sites in Turkey who became a forceful voice for ending the international trafficking of looted antiquities, she was 88. A19

Frank Little
A tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for five seasons but ultimately left the stage for a career as an arts administrator and educator, he was 69. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Brooklyn Imam Leading In a Faith Under Fire
Like many Muslim imams across the country, Sheik Reda Shata is under pressure to help law enforcement officials, especially after a man who prayed at his mosque was arrested in a subway bombing plot. But he must also maintain the trust of his congregants, who feel unfairly singled out by the authorities. A1

Possible Suspect in Killing
The investigation of the murder of a young graduate student more than a week ago intensified as the police questioned a potential suspect, a bouncer at the downtown Manhattan bar where witnesses last saw her alive. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-7

N.F.L. Talks Break Down
The National Football League headed into an uncertain future when the on-again, off-again talks on a new labor agreement between owners and the players' union broke off. D1

Woods Wins Ford Championship
Despite consecutive bogeys, Tiger Woods won the Ford Championship at Doral after his nearest challenger self-destructed on the 18th hole, making it his 48th PGA Tour victory. D1

ARTS E1-10

'Crash' Wins Best Picture
The motion picture academy turned its back on ''Brokeback Mountain'' and its unflinching gay love story, awarding the Oscar for best picture to ''Crash,'' a moody kaleidoscope of racial confrontation in Los Angeles in which every character is at once sympathetic and repulsive. ''Brokeback Mountain,'' won the awards for its director, Ang Lee, and for best score and adapted screenplay. E1

Levine, Injured, Cancels Tour
A fall by the conductor James Levine onstage at Symphony Hall in Boston last week has apparently injured the rotator cuff in his right shoulder, forcing him to cancel his first tour as music director of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and threatening his crowded schedule at the Metropolitan Opera, officials of the two institutions said. E3

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Enron Trial Testimony
Damaging testimony in the criminal trial against the former executives Jeffrey K. Skilling and Kenneth L. Lay has led legal experts to praise the government case presented so far. Some of those experts are raising questions about the risks prosecutors would run by putting Andrew S. Fastow, the former chief financial officer who has already pleaded guilty to many felonies, on the stand. C1

Cost of Online Access
Phone and cable companies are floating plans that would have Web sites paying new fees to ensure that their content will be delivered to customers faster. This possibility has raised the prospect that consumers may end up having to pay twice for access to the Internet -- once to the phone or cable company that sells them a dial-up or broadband line, and again to Internet companies that pass along new charges for fast access to content from their sites. C1

Growth in Children's Music
Children's music has experienced substantial growth over the last few years, even as CD sales in most other genres have declined. Last week, all three top positions on the Billboard sales chart were occupied by albums made for children. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Kabuki Congress; hazards of boom-time borrowing; Lawrence Downes on Georgia.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Autos D8
Bridge E8
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E10
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (89%); SKIING (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); INFLUENZA (87%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); ARMIES (78%); LITIGATION (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); COUPS (70%); RESORTS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); SKIING FACILITIES (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (62%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); BIRDS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: KADIMA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UKRAINE (92%); SUDAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GAMBIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



127 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Iran Maintains Defiant Stance As Atomic Agency Takes Case

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, March 5 

 BODY:
Iran on Sunday reiterated its warning that it would begin making nuclear fuel on an industrial scale if the United Nations nuclear agency decided to send its case to the Security Council in its meeting on Monday.
 The warning came a day before the start of a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which will decide whether to send Iran's case to the Security Council for possible punitive actions.
The agency had demanded last month that Iran suspend its research and development program before the agency's meeting this week. But Iran brushed off the demand. The current Iranian program produces enriched uranium on a small scale. Enriched uranium can be used to make nuclear fuel; highly enriched uranium can be used to make nuclear weapons. 
 ''If Iran's nuclear dossier is referred to the U.N. Security Council, uranium enrichment will be resumed,'' Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, said at a news conference, referring to large-scale enrichment. ''Nuclear research and development are part of Iran's national interests and sovereignty and we will not give them up.''
 ''We will not accept the suspension of our research program,'' he said, ''but we are willing to hold off on large-scale enrichment for a short period of time to remove concerns.''
 ''This is our last proposal to end this standoff,'' he added.
 European negotiators rejected the same proposal on Friday when Mr. Larijani offered it at a meeting in Vienna. ''Europe will not accept such an offer because even a research program can give Iran the capability to develop nuclear weapons,'' said a Western diplomat in Tehran, speaking on condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules. 
 Justin Higgins, a State Department spokesman, said on Sunday, ''This is only the latest in a long series of unhelpful statements and gestures that Iran has made with regard to its nuclear program.'' 
 Iran has so far rejected all international proposals for it to abandon its nuclear research program, including one made by Russia last week for uranium to be enriched by Russia on Russian soil and the fuel shipped back to Iran. The Russian proposal was backed by the United States and China.
 Iran has warned that any sanctions against it could affect oil prices. But Mr. Larijani said Iran, which is OPEC's second-largest oil producer, would not use ''oil as a weapon'' because it respected the psychological security of the international community.
 ''But naturally if they change the situation that will automatically be affected, too,'' he warned, saying sanctions themselves, without any action by Iran, would affect prices.
 He added that ''sanctions will not affect us much, and some solutions have been thought about for those which would affect us.'' 
 The conservative daily Keyhan reported Sunday that a spy who had passed information to Americans about Iran's nuclear program for the past 10 years had been arrested. It said the man, who was not identified, had been arrested once before on the same charges but was released after he expressed regret. 
 The newspaper reported that another person accused of spying, an employee of the state telecommunication company, had been arrested and charged with selling fiber-optic telecommunications plans to the United States. 

Tough Talk From Bolton on Iran
 WASHINGTON, March 5 (Reuters) -- John R. Bolton, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said Sunday that Iran faced ''painful consequences'' if it continued secret nuclear activities, and he said the matter would become more difficult to resolve if the international community did not confront it. 
 Mr. Bolton also reaffirmed that the United States would use ''all tools at our disposal'' to thwart Iran's nuclear program and was already ''beefing up defensive measures.'' 
 ''The Iran regime must be made aware that if it continues down the path of international isolation, there will be tangible and painful consequences,'' he told 4,500 delegates to the convention of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the leading pro-Israel lobbying group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); OIL EXTRACTION (64%) Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%) International Atomic Energy Agency; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (78%) Nazila Fathi

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



128 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Feeling No Pain 

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
President Bush's main purpose in visiting India seems to have been to promote nuclear proliferation. But he also had some kind words for outsourcing. And those words help explain something that I know deeply puzzles the administration's political gurus: Mr. Bush's dismal polling on economic issues.
 Now the American economy isn't doing as well as Bush partisans think it is. In fact, since the end of the 2001 recession, the recovery in jobs, output and especially wages has been unusually weak by historical standards. Still, the economy is expanding, so it's impressive just how large a majority of Americans disapproves of Mr. Bush's economic management. 
Why doesn't Mr. Bush get any economic respect? I think it's because most Americans sense, correctly, that he doesn't care about people like them. We're living in a time when many Americans are feeling economically insecure, but a tiny elite has been growing incredibly rich. And Mr. Bush's problem is that he identifies so totally with the lucky, wealthy few that in unscripted settings he can't manage even a few sentences of empathy with ordinary Americans. He doesn't feel your pain, and it shows.
 Here's what Mr. Bush said in India, when someone raised the question of the political backlash against outsourcing: ''Losing jobs is painful, so let's make sure people are educated so they can find -- fill the jobs of the 21st century. And let's make sure that there's pro-growth economic policies in place. What does that mean? That means low taxes; it means less regulation; it means fewer lawsuits; it means wise energy policy.''
 O.K., so you're a 50-year-old worker whose job has just been outsourced, and Mr. Bush tells you that you should go get a 21st-century education and rejoice in the joys of a lawsuit-free economy. Uh-huh.
 Actually, Mr. Bush's remarks were even more off-key than they seem, coming during a visit to India. India's surge into world markets hasn't followed the pattern set by other developing nations, which started their export drive in low-tech industries like clothing. Instead, India has moved directly into industries that advanced countries like the United States thought were their exclusive turf. When Business Week put together a list of areas ''where India has made an impact and where it's going next,'' that list consisted almost entirely of high-technology activities like software and chip design. 
 What this means is that American workers whose jobs are threatened by Indian competition are, in many cases, people who thought they already had acquired the skills to ''fill the jobs of the 21st century'' -- but have just discovered that Indians, who are paid about a tenth as much, also have those skills.
 Am I saying that we should try to stop outsourcing? No. But if you don't feel conflicted about the effects of globalization, if you don't worry about the many losers from the process, you aren't paying attention. And American workers deserve a better answer to their concerns than yet another assertion that a rising tide raises all boats, because that's manifestly untrue.
 The fact is that we're living in a time when most Americans are seeing little if any benefit from overall income growth, because their share of the economic pie is falling. Between 1979 and 2003, according to a recent research paper published by the I.R.S., the share of overall income received by the bottom 80 percent of taxpayers fell from 50 percent to barely over 40 percent. The main winners from this upward redistribution of income were a tiny, wealthy elite: more than half the income share lost by the bottom 80 percent was gained by just one-fourth of 1 percent of the population, people with incomes of at least $750,000 in 2003.
 And those fortunate few are the only people Mr. Bush seems to care about. Look at what he had to offer after asserting, in effect, that workers get outsourced because they don't have the right education: lower taxes, deregulation and fewer lawsuits. Funny, that doesn't sound like ''pro-growth'' policy to me. Instead, it sounds like a wish list for wealthy individuals and big corporations. 
 Mr. Bush once joked that his base consisted of the ''haves and the have-mores.'' But it wasn't much of a joke. His remarks in India show that he really can't imagine what it's like not to be a member of a privileged economic elite.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) United States Economy; Public Opinion; Income; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



129 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

With Star Witness Set to Appear at Enron Trial, Some Wonder if His Testimony Is Even Needed
A steady drumbeat of damaging testimony in the criminal trial against the former Enron executives Jeffrey K. Skilling and Kenneth L. Lay has led legal analysts to praise the case the government has presented so far. But some analysts said the very strength of that testimony raises questions about the risks prosecutors will be running when they put Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, on the stand this coming week. [Page C1.] 


Higher Rates for Online Service Are on the Horizon
One way or another, consumers are going to pay more in the future for Web content, according to consumer advocates, industry analysts and telecommunications executives. [C1.]

After Settlement, New Challenges for BlackBerry
Research in Motion may have thought that a settlement assuring that its BlackBerry service would not be suspended in the United States would give it some breathing room with investors and analysts. But the company faces new challenges, including heightened competition. [C1.]

More Companies Send Product Alerts to Consumers
Looking for new ways to reach consumers, retailers are using R.S.S., or ''really simple syndication,'' to feed product alerts to Internet users who have set up personalized Web pages on Yahoo, Google and other sites. Ethan B. Holland, left, director of e-commerce for the Burpee seed company, said the company began helping customers set up R.S.S. feeds in late 2004, and now more than 10,000 receive the alerts. He said the alerts were ''lighthearted, kind of like a blog posting, which I think you can get away with since you're dealing with people who are more familiar with the casual nature of the Internet.'' [C4.]

Big Decisions Ahead for Disney's New Chief
When Robert A. Iger takes the stage at Walt Disney's annual meeting this Friday, things will be calmer than they have been for some time. But Mr. Iger, Disney's new chief executive, still has plenty of big issues to grapple with: figuring out the role of Steven P. Jobs in the company, finding a new Disney chairman and reorganizing the movie studio. [C3.]

Popular Blog in China Stirs Economic Debate
The runaway success in China of a blog by Xu Jinglei, an actress and filmmaker, has sparked a debate about the economic value of blogs and who should profit from them. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); RSS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); RETAILERS (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (83%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (82%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (57%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



130 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; White House Letter; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Trip Abroad Gives Bush a Respite From Domestic Woes

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
There were no questions about the Dubai ports deal. There was little talk of Vice President Dick Cheney's accidental shooting of a fellow quail hunter. The words ''Iraq'' and ''Katrina'' hardly came up at all.
 Through five days and three countries last week, George W. Bush got a little of what beleaguered American presidents always look for on foreign trips: a chance to set aside problems at home. 
True, the trip had troubles of its own. Anti-Bush riots led by Islamists exploded from Hyderabad north to Kashmir, Islamabad was in lockdown because of the risks of bringing the president into Osama bin Laden's backyard, and an American diplomat died in a suicide bombing in Karachi. But compared with Mr. Bush's most recent trips to South America and Asia -- one dominated by demonstrations led by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and the other by problems in Iraq -- the president's visit to the subcontinent was a relief for him.
 India, where Mr. Bush spent two packed days, embraced him in a way the president had not experienced in a long time. 
 ''He felt very warmly received,'' Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, said from the lawn of Islamabad's presidential palace on Saturday morning. The night before, in an open-air speech in New Delhi at a 16th-century fort, Mr. Bush said he had been ''dazzled'' by the spectacle of ''this vibrant and exciting land.''
 This is not to say that all of India adores Mr. Bush, and its Muslim minority in particular is furious about Iraq. But over all, the United States is highly popular in India and Mr. Bush bestowed on the nation such an astonishing gift -- last week's nuclear deal -- that Indians greeted him like an American maharajah. Even before his arrival, a survey in the Indian newsweekly Outlook found that two-thirds of Indians ''strongly'' or ''somewhat'' regarded Mr. Bush as a friend of the country.
 Mr. Bush, who can look miserable on foreign trips, often appeared moved and delighted as he raced around India. ''I have been received in many capitals, but I have never seen a reception as grand as the one we just received,'' Mr. Bush said after a majestic arrival ceremony with horses and honor guards at Rashtrapati Bhavan, the 340-room pink and cream sandstone mansion built for the last of the British viceroys.
 Rashtrapati Bhavan, now the home of the president of India, evokes all the romance and hubris of the dying Raj. But as evocative as the ceremony was for Mr. Bush, aides said he was more captivated by the India of the present -- a functioning democracy of a billion people, a counterweight to China, a huge market for American goods. One of the president's favorite stops on the trip, they said, was a meeting with entrepreneurs in Hyderabad, the booming high-tech city.
 ''Yesterday I met with some Indian C.E.O.'s and American C.E.O.'s, kind of the old folks,'' Mr. Bush told a dozen men and women in their 20's and 30's at Hyderabad's Indian School of Business. ''Today I'm meeting with the C.E.O.'s of tomorrow, the people that are going to help drive this great engine of economic prosperity for India -- for the good of the world, is how I view it.''
 India cooperated with exquisite spring weather -- it was only in the 80's in New Delhi, where lush gardens burst with dahlias and bougainvillea -- and huge headlines. ''It's a Deal -- A Very Big Deal,'' screamed The Times of India across the front page on Friday morning, over a picture of Mr. Bush with his arm around the shoulders of the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh. The two had just announced the pact that would give India help with nuclear power for its energy needs while allowing it to continue to develop nuclear weapons -- a tough sell in a skeptical United States Congress, Mr. Bush acknowledged.
 Indians made light of Mr. Bush's one faux pas, skipping a three-hour trip from New Delhi to the Taj Mahal, the tomb that a heartsick Mogul emperor built for his wife and still considered the world's greatest monument to love. ''I am truly sorry that the president is not taking you to Taj Mahal this time,'' Mr. Singh said to Laura Bush as he toasted the first couple at a lunch on Thursday. ''I hope he will be more chivalrous the next time you are here.''
 Mr. Bush bookended his trip to India with a surprise four-hour stop in Afghanistan and a 24-hour stay in Pakistan, where Mr. bin Laden is believed to be hiding in the remote tribal areas near the Afghan border. But Mr. Bush, the first American president to visit Afghanistan since President Eisenhower in 1959, and the first to visit Pakistan since President Clinton in 2000, bounced around Mr. bin Laden's terrain with defiance.
 Unlike Mr. Clinton, who slipped into Islamabad for six hours on an unmarked military jet, Mr. Bush arrived with a roar on Air Force One. (Although Air Force One, the most recognizable 747 in the world, landed with its running lights off and shades drawn, making it a more difficult target for any ground-launched missile.) Mr. Bush also stayed the night at the fortress-like American ambassador's residence and took time out the next day to take a few swings with a cricket bat with students from the Islamabad College for Boys.
 ''Terrorists and killers are not going to prevent me from going to Pakistan,'' he had vowed in New Delhi.
 Mr. Bush got home at 5 a.m. on Sunday and returned to his normal life, going to church later that morning, then taking a bicycle ride. On Monday, he would face Iraq, the ports deal, fallout from Katrina, rebellious Republicans, approval ratings in the mid-30's -- and a Mr. bin Laden still on the loose.
 His trip to the subcontinent was over.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a cricket workshop Saturday at the United States Embassy in Islamabad with a student. (Photo by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TERRORISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (54%) United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (73%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (76%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (76%) KASHMIR (79%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (57%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



131 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Owners Should Watch Bogart, and Learn

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
IF you like classic movies, you've probably seen ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.'' If you haven't seen it, you should.
 So should Paul Tagliabue, Gene Upshaw and all the N.F.L. owners. Each has probably seen that movie, but they need to see it again as a reminder of the prospectors on a mountaintop who fought too long and too loudly over sharing their treasure until the wind blew their gold dust away.
Although the negotiations are between Tagliabue, the commissioner, and Upshaw, the executive director of the players union -- the talks broke off again last night before the free-agency deadline was extended to 12:01 a.m. Thursday -- Tagliabue will still need to persuade the league's 32 club owners to approve a new collective-bargaining agreement. 
 Not that pro football fans care. They were wondering what team would sign Shaun Alexander (Seattle kept him with an eight-year, $62 million offer last night). 
 With multibillion-dollar television contracts and several glitzy new stadiums, pro football is on a mountaintop of prosperity for owners, coaches and players. In the 1948 movie, which starred Humphrey Bogart and Walter Huston (an Oscar for best supporting actor) and was directed by John Huston (an Oscar for best director), gold prospectors in the Sierra Madre mountains of Mexico were never more prosperous. But in a greedy fight over shares, their gold dust is scattered by the wind.
 With the N.F.L. having more gold dust than ever, the high-revenue club owners should share and share alike in whatever negotiated revisions develop in the economic system that has put pro football on the mountaintop.
 When the owners eventually meet to discuss (and possibly reject what Tagliabue and Upshaw have wrought), pro football's gold prospectors, alias the high-revenue owners, especially Daniel Snyder of the Redskins, Jerry Jones of the Cowboys and Robert K. Kraft of the Patriots, will be fighting to keep the former agreement.
 Fans are wondering if the Redskins or Cowboys will sign the free-agent kicker Adam Vinatieri, or if will he return to the Patriots. 
 With each team's salary cap expected to rise to more than $100 million from the current $94.5 million, the high-revenue franchises (Washington, Dallas, New England, Philadelphia, Houston, Denver, Chicago and Cleveland) that have more lucrative luxury-suite and local television-and-radio deals will still be left with far more profit than the low-revenue franchises.
 It also means that a high-revenue team, notably the Redskins, can continue to use some of that profit to pay higher coaching-staff salaries.
 With no cap on coach's salaries, Snyder is able to pay about $2.5 million a year to each of Coach Joe Gibbs's coordinators, Gregg Williams (defense) and Al Saunders (offense). Another of Gibbs's assistants, the defensive line coach Greg Blache, is making $1 million a year. Other high-revenue clubs can afford similar coaching salaries, but the low-revenue franchises can't.
 Fans are wondering if the Colts will re-sign the free-agent running back Edgerrin James, or if he will wander off to another team. 
 Whatever happens at the owners' meeting, Tagliabue's stature will be affected. The N.F.L.'s lead attorney before he succeeded Pete Rozelle in 1989, Tagliabue has had a high approval rating among the owners in developing consensuses for decisions on his negotiations with the union, the television networks, the stadiums and the sponsors.
 If Tagliabue eventually obtains the required 75 percent approval vote by the owners after a union agreement is reached, his overall grip on the owners will be stronger than ever, but he still could be a target of the owners who vote against it. 
 In Rozelle's reign, he not only had to fight off Al Davis's restless moves with the Oakland/Los Angeles/Oakland Raiders, he had to quell a rebellion led by Carroll Rosenbloom, then the owner of the Los Angeles Rams. Rozelle prevailed until health problems, perhaps created by the stress of the job, persuaded him to retire in 1989. He died in 1996.
 Fans are wondering if the Dolphins are the front-runners to sign the free agent Drew Brees, or has shoulder surgery made him too risky? 
 If Snyder, Jones and Kraft don't get what they want from a new agreement with the union and are outvoted in its acceptance by other owners, they may retaliate by trying to unseat Tagliabue. Hell has no fury like an owner scorned, especially a high-revenue owner. But as Rozelle showed when scorned (and sued) by Davis, hell hath no fury like a commissioner scorned.
 Fans are wondering where the free agent Antwaan Randle El, the Steelers wide receiver who threw a touchdown pass in the Super Bowl, will alight. 
 For all the dragged-out negotiations so far, before the owners gather for their meeting with Tagliabue, they ought to rent a video of ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.'' They should watch it together and learn the lesson of that movie: Don't fight too long and too loudly over your gold dust, or the wind will blow it all away. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (88%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS REVENUES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SPORTS FANS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); APPROVALS (69%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%)

PERSON: Dave Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (69%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (72%); COLORADO, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



132 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Mayor and Senate Leader Meet on State School Aid to City 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that he had met with the State Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, to discuss state aid for building and repairing New York City schools, a signal that they might be trying to resolve a simmering dispute between the city and Albany. 
 It was their first meeting in the month since a mayoral aide suggested that the mayor, a Republican, might try to help Democrats win control of the Senate because he believed that the Legislature was not giving the city sufficient aid. 
The mayor denied a report in The Daily News yesterday suggesting that he would agree not to back a prospective Democratic challenge to Serphin R. Maltese, a Republican senator from Queens, in exchange for more school-construction money.
 ''These things aren't done based on deals,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. He added, ''The real world is, I've got to convince the majority leader, he's got to convince his caucus, I've got to convince the Assembly speaker and his caucus, I've got to convince the governor, that New York City kids need and deserve better buildings, more buildings, to get an education, and that we need the state to do it. And I'm sure they'll stand up and do what's right.'' 
 A mayoral aide said on Feb. 4 that the mayor would consider using his clout and wealth to help unseat the slim Republican majority in the Senate. On Feb. 13, the mayor issued his sharpest statements to date on state education aid, asserting that 21 construction projects were in jeopardy because of ''the state's shameless shortchanging of our city's children out of the billions of dollars we need for capital school funding.'' The mayor has called on the state to provide $1.8 billion to salvage the projects.
 After marching in an early St. Patrick's Day parade on Staten Island, the mayor told reporters that he hoped to reach an accord with the Senate, the Assembly and Gov. George E. Pataki on school funding. 
 John E. McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Bruno, said that the senator and the mayor ''had a meeting and discussed state construction aid to city schools,'' but added that it was premature to talk of any agreement. 
 The dispute over school construction aid pits New York City against political leaders in Albany, but it may also figure prominently in the budget negotiation between Mr. Bloomberg and the City Council. Today, the Council will begin a series of hearings on the preliminary budget that the mayor presented in January; the budget is to be completed before July 1, the start of the next fiscal year. 
 Last year, after a battle with the Council, Mr. Bloomberg increased the city's contribution to its five-year school construction plan, rather than delaying projects or scaling back the plan, in the expectation that the state would later come up with the money he has demanded. But the mayor has insisted that the city cannot afford to do so again.
 The city has projected a $3.3 billion surplus for the current fiscal year, but the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., predicted, in a report to be released today, that ''much of the good fortune experienced by the city in recent years is unlikely to continue.''
 In the report, Mr. Thompson, who is scheduled to testify on the preliminary budget this afternoon, wrote to the Council that ''the housing market is in fact slowing, as is the overall economy'' and that ''financial markets are facing uncertainty due to rising interest rates and high debt levels.'' He warned that several ''extraordinary expense savings'' this year were unlikely to be repeated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (63%); PARADES & MARCHES (62%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Building (Construction)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006



133 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 52 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
WEEKS, SILAS B.

 BODY:
 WEEKS -- Silas B. Born Mineola, NY, 1914, died Eliot, ME, February 27th. Raised in East Williston, LI. Birthright member Westbury Friends Meeting. Graduate of George School and Cornell University. Professor of Resource Economics at The University of N.H. Retired 1979. Service April 8, Friends Meeting, Dover, N.H. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



134 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: NBC Buys A Web Site For Women

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
IVillage, an Internet company devoted to women, agreed yesterday to be acquired by NBC Universal for $600 million. 
 The sale of iVillage, one of the last major publicly traded Internet companies based in New York, comes at a time when major media companies, recovering from their misadventures online in the Internet bubble of the late 1990's, have been acquiring online companies.
Last year, the News Corporation bought MySpace, a teenage social site, and IGN, an online game site. Dow Jones bought MarketWatch, a financial news site, in late 2004. And in February 2005, The New York Times Company bought About.com, a collection of sites on specialized topics. 
 After those transactions, iVillage hired investment bankers and put itself up for sale. After several rounds of bidding, the final sale price, which comes to $8.50 a share, fell short of the prices bandied about by some analysts. IVillage shares rose 38 cents, or 4.8 percent, to close at $8.36.
 Robert C. Wright, NBC Universal's chief executive, said that iVillage offered a way for the company to expand its exposure to the rapidly growing Internet advertising market and to connect to the coverage of women's issues and health issues that NBC already creates. 
 ''All those areas are subjects of programs and discussions we cover on NBC,'' he said. 
 The company plans to promote iVillage on its broadcast programs and make programming from NBC Universal available on iVillage. This is a potentially awkward development because much of the NBC News content is also linked with MSNBC.com, a Web site it owns jointly with Microsoft. 
 Beth Comstock, the president of NBC Universal's digital media unit, said the company saw submissions by users, not content it created, as the greatest means of expansion. 
 ''What we are excited about here is that it is a community,'' said Ms. Comstock. ''For example, parenting. You will not only be able to read about parenting, but have message boards, photo sharing, enhanced ways of connecting with people, perhaps enhancing something that was discussed on the 'Today Show.' '' 
 Mr. Wright said NBC Universal was not looking at buying Internet companies in other areas. 
 ''We don't have any plans to make acquisitions at this scale, but we will look at smaller acquisitions of tools or other things that enhance the site,'' he said.
 IVillage was started 11 years ago by Candice Carpenter, who was a consultant to America Online and became one of the most prominent figures in New York's Internet community, known as Silicon Alley. IVillage sold shares at $24 in an initial public offering in March 1999. They reached more than $100 the next day. In 2001, the company merged with Women.com, a competing site affiliated with the Hearst Corporation. After the dot-com bubble burst, the stock fell to less than $1 a share in 2002. 
 Hearst, which publishes a number of women's magazines, owns about 25 percent of iVillage, which it is selling to NBC. 
 Hearst has agreed to keep the content of its magazines on the iVillage site through the end of this year, and Mr. Wright said the companies would negotiate a future relationship. Hearst and NBC have other relationships. For example, they co-own the A&E cable networks.
 NBC was an early investor in iVillage and held a board seat. But it sold its shares in 2002, a year after pulling the plug on its own highly promoted NBCi Internet portal. 
 Mr. Wright said NBC's efforts had been too early.
 ''We wish we had NBCi today,'' he said. But back then, he said, ''NBC couldn't justify keeping the business open because the advertising was too thin.''
 IVillage earned $9.5 million on sales of $91 million last year. About two-thirds of its revenue came from its Web site and one-third from other companies it had acquired in areas including astrology and health-related television programs.
 Jordan Rohan, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said iVillage had had a hard time growing as quickly as other Internet content sites, like CNet, which focuses on technology. Its natural base of advertisers, the makers of food, cosmetics and clothing, sell products that are bought largely in stores rather than directly from the Web. The acquisition may well help it grow, he said.
 ''NBC brings a lot to the table,'' Mr. Rohan said, including content and relationships with advertisers. And iVillage gives NBC an avenue for growth. ''It's better than watching the NBC television audience continue to fragment,'' he said.
 With iVillage, NBC Universal said it would have digital revenue of about $200 million this year. It expects that to grow 20 percent a year. 
 Douglas W. McCormick, iVillage's chief executive since 2000, has agreed to stay with the company through the completion of the acquisition. His status beyond that has not been set, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WOMEN (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); WEB SITES (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Women; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (98%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); NEWS CORP (72%); HEARST CORP (60%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); ABOUT.COM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); AOL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Ivillage; Nbc Universal

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Saul Hansell; Robert C (Nbc Exec) Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



135 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

As Wal-Mart Works With Bloggers, Questions Arise on Their Independence
Under assault as never before, Wal-Mart is looking beyond the mainstream media and working directly with bloggers, feeding them exclusive nuggets of news, suggesting topics for postings and even inviting them to visit its headquarters. The strategy raises questions about what bloggers, who pride themselves on independence, should disclose to readers. [Page C1.] 


NBC Universal to Buy iVillage for $600 Million
IVillage, the Internet company devoted to women, agreed to be acquired by NBC Universal for $600 million. The sale of iVillage, one of the last major publicly traded Internet companies based in New York, comes as major media companies, recovering from their misadventures online in the Internet bubble of the late 1990's, started acquiring online companies last year. NBC Universal's chief executive, Robert Wright, said that iVillage offered a way to expand the company's exposure to the rapidly growing Internet advertising market and to connect to the coverage of women's issues and health issues that NBC already creates. Market Place. [C1.]

After AT&T Deal, an Industry With Fewer Players
Is bigger necessarily better when it comes to running a telecommunications company? Apparently, AT&T thinks so, as it announced plans to buy BellSouth for $67 billion. Yet AT&T's ambitions have raised questions about whether its strategy of gobbling up its rivals has reached the point of diminishing returns. [C1.]

Despite new technological choices in phone service, consumer groups argue that, by and large, industry consolidation has reduced choice for most consumers who are not ready yet to abandon their traditional phone lines. [C6.]

The AT&T deal threatens to undermine parts of the telephone industry's broader regulatory and legislative agenda by making it hard for the industry to claim it badly needs relief from regulators and Congress. [C1.]

The takeover will have a big impact on Madison Avenue because so many agencies have been spending so much money on behalf of AT&T and BellSouth as well as their mobile communications joint venture, Cingular Wireless. [C7.]

Some OPEC Ministers Say Output Should Be Reduced
So far, oil producers have the best of all worlds: high prices and high demand. But because demand for some oil products typically slows in the second quarter, allowing refiners to build stocks of gasoline, some of OPEC's harder-line ministers have argued that the group should pare its output to avoid a sharp price drop. [C1.]

Russian Panel Approves Plan for Oil Pipeline
A Russian regulatory panel reviewing plans to build an oil pipeline that would pass along the shoreline of Lake Baikal, the world's biggest fresh-water lake by volume, announced that it had approved the proposal over objections from scientists and environmental groups. [A3.]

Blackstone Group to Buy CarrAmerica Realty
The CarrAmerica Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust with interests in 285 office buildings, said it had agreed to be acquired by the Blackstone Group, in a deal valued about $5.6 billion. [C4.]

Stocks Decline as Bond Yields Rise
Rising bond yields led to a sell-off on Wall Street as persistent nervousness about the economy and interest rates motivated investors to take profits. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 63 points, to 10,958.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.97 points, to 1,278.26, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 16.57 points, to 2,286.03. [C10.]

Lawyers Claim Merck Hid Risk of Vioxx
The legal fight over Vioxx returned to a New Jersey courtroom, with lawyers for two men who blame their heart attacks on the painkiller telling jurors that its manufacturer, Merck, knowingly concealed its risks from consumers. But the company's lead lawyer dismissed those claims, attributing the heart attacks to other health problems and saying Merck rigorously studied Vioxx for more than seven years and complied with regulatory requirements for new drugs. [C4.]

A panel of the Food and Drug Administration will discuss about whether to allow a multiple sclerosis drug back on the market. [C4.]

Enron Defense Lawyer Seeks to Cast Doubt on Claim
With a pivotal government witness waiting, a defense lawyer in the Enron fraud trial sought to cast doubt on a former executive's claim that Jeffrey K. Skilling, the chief executive, fretted in 2001 that ''they're on to us.'' [C4.]

Conservatives to Propose Budget-Paring Plan
House conservatives plan to propose an austere alternative spending plan that would pare more than $650 billion over five years, balance the budget and drastically shrink three cabinet agencies. [A16.]

Health Plan for Uninsured in Arkansas
More than 80,000 uninsured workers in Arkansas would gain access to health coverage under a plan to be announced by the White House. [A16.]

On the List of Those to Tip, Don't Forget the Maid
A seasoned business traveler always makes sure to have cash on hand to take care of the parking valet, the bellhop, the doorman and the cabby. But what about the hotel maid? Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Merck in January and February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (84%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (75%); WOMEN (75%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (71%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); APPROVALS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); OIL EXTRACTION (65%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (65%); LAKES (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); WAL-MART STORES INC (93%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (82%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (55%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (55%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); WMT (NYSE) (93%); BX (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



136 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: A Powerful House Republican Plans to Retire

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6 

 BODY:
Representative Bill Thomas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and a chief legislative architect of the Medicare prescription drug law and the Bush administration's tax cut agenda, announced Monday that he would retire at the end of this year.
 Mr. Thomas is in the final year of his term as chairman, under Republican House rules limiting chairmanships to six years, and his announcement was not unexpected. 
A member of the House since 1978, when Republicans were in the minority, Mr. Thomas waited a long time for power and relished his job as chairman of a committee with sweeping influence over tax policy, health care, trade and the economy. Many had found it hard to imagine Mr. Thomas, a proud and mercurial man, remaining in Congress without that job.
 ''At a time when my party controlled the House, the Senate and the presidency, it was my privilege to chair the committee that I believe has the most impact on every American's life,'' Mr. Thomas said Monday, according to a transcript of a news conference held in his Congressional district in Bakersfield, Calif. 
 Mr. Thomas invoked the example of the Dodgers pitcher Sandy Koufax retiring at his peak: ''I admired him when he said, 'I could pitch another game, but why?' ''
 Democrats quickly cited Mr. Thomas's retirement as an example of Republican incumbents' ''sensing the winds of change blowing at gale force,'' as Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, put it. ''It says they have a sense of what's out there, politically, this year,'' said Mr. Emanuel, who predicts a Democratic wave in this fall's elections.
 But whatever the national outlook, political strategists expect Mr. Thomas's district to remain Republican; it gave 68 percent of its vote to President Bush in 2004. ''We'll easily retain it,'' said Carl Forti, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
 Mr. Thomas's successor as committee chairman will be chosen by the House Republican steering committee, which is dominated by the leadership, and then ratified by the full Republican conference. The maneuvering for the job quickly intensified. Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida is next in line by virtue of seniority, and quickly signaled his interest. But House Republicans do not always follow strict seniority rules. 
 Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, who ranks below Mr. Shaw, is also considered a leading candidate. And Representative Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut, who ranks between them, indicated Monday that she would defer to Mr. Shaw, but that ''if it becomes an open race,'' she would jump in.
 Mr. Thomas's retirement will mean the passing of one of the most effective -- and polarizing -- legislators. Nowhere was his legislative power more apparent than on the 2003 overhaul of Medicare, which offered the nation's retirees and disabled a long-promised prescription drug benefit and created a sweeping new role for private health plans in the government insurance program.
 Democrats said they were essentially shut out of the legislative conference that produced the final bill -- part of what they asserted was a long pattern by Mr. Thomas. And while Mr. Thomas and his fellow Republicans succeeded in passing the Medicare law, the partisan and ideological fights it spawned continue.
 Mr. Thomas, who had served 16 years under a Democratic majority, said that the Democrats simply could not accept their life in the minority, and that they viewed power as ''their birthright.''
 While acknowledging that he had shortcomings, Mr. Thomas argued in an interview in 2002 that his personality was ideally suited for pushing through his party's economic agenda with what was often a razor-thin majority. 
 ''Why did Eisenhower give Patton the job of moving across Germany at lighting speed?'' he asked. ''Because he knew Patton would do it. Sometimes hills just need to be captured.''
 In fact, even his enemies rarely disputed Mr. Thomas's effectiveness or his command of sprawling, complex programs like Medicare. In Mr. Bush's second term, however, the president's agenda has proved a far harder sell, and Mr. Thomas was unable to move the administration's proposal to create private accounts in Social Security.
 In his news conference Monday, Mr. Thomas noted that he still had about nine months left in his term and a full agenda on tax cuts, trade and pension restructuring. 
 ''Rather than read my headstone now, let's see if I can't carve a few more things in it before you retire me,'' said Mr. Thomas, a 64-year-old former political science professor.
 There was speculation in political circles that Mr. Thomas might end up with a job in the Bush administration, and Mr. Bush praised him effusively on Monday as ''a friend and a man of great accomplishment.'' But Mr. Thomas was coy about his future. 
 ''I've got nine months still to go,'' he said. ''I'm not walking away into the sunset. I'm going to work.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Bill Thomas, with his wife, Sharon, held a news conference in Bakersfield, Calif., yesterday to announce his retirement. (Photo by Felix Adamo/Bakersfield Californian, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELDER LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (71%); TRANSCRIPTS (67%) Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); RAHM EMANUEL (59%); JIM MCCRERY (59%) Robin Toner; Bill (Rep) Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Bakersfield (Calif); United States

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



137 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: A Cool Ride That Saves Gas

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
Some government researchers have come up with a new idea for improving fuel economy -- the cool seat.
 The Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory reported on Thursday that if every car and truck on America's roads was equipped with ventilated seats, air-conditioning-related gasoline consumption could be reduced by 7.5 percent, thus saving 522 million gallons of fuel per year. 
The seats tested have two built-in fans that suck warm air and moisture through their perforated leather and send it away from the driver or passenger.
 Ventilated seats make drivers feel cooler, so they could save fuel by turning their air-conditioners down a notch, in theory. 
 ''But try telling that to some guy driving through Mississippi on a hot day in July,'' said David Caldwell, a spokesman for Cadillac. 
 The seats, ComfortCools, made by W.E.T. Automotive Systems of Germany, are offered as an option in the Cadillac STS. 
 Mr. Caldwell says 30 to 40 percent of STS models are ordered with ventilated seats, but only as part of $3,000 to $10,000 luxury packages that also include some features (including a heated steering wheel) that actually make the car less fuel-efficient.
 Closely related to the ventilated seat is the heated and air-conditioned ''climatized'' seat with its own refrigeration unit, seen in an increasing number of upscale vehicles. Cooled seats are hot, but they're not exactly fuel savers. JIM MOTAVALLI


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Kline)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); CONSUMPTION (73%) Automobiles; Research; Fuel Efficiency; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: WET AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: National Renewable Energy Laboratory; Energy Department

TICKER: WET (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (58%)

PERSON: Jim Motavalli

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



138 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; ESSAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Attention Surplus? Re-examining a Disorder

BYLINE: By PAUL STEINBERG, M.D.. 
Paul Steinberg is a psychiatrist and writer in Washington.

 BODY:
The recent recommendation that Ritalin and other medications for attention-deficit disorder carry the most serious allowable warning will certainly slow the explosive growth in the use of those drugs. 
 That was the intention of some members of the Food and Drug Administration advisory committee that called for the packaging alert, known as a black-box warning.
But the recommendation and concerns about growth in the use of these drugs may force us to think about the disorder, known as A.D.H.D., in new and different ways, from an evolutionary and contextual standpoint. 
 Every generation likes to believe that it is witnessing the most dramatic epoch in history. In the case of the current Western world, that belief may indeed be accurate, particularly in light of the striking changes of the last 30 years. 
 As the business writer and consultant Peter Drucker pointed out, most people in the United States, Japan and parts of Europe are ''knowledge workers.'' We live in an information age, in a knowledge-based economy. 
 For those of us who have ''attention-surplus disorder'' -- a term coined by Dr. Ned Hallowell, a psychiatrist in Boston who has A.D.H.D. -- this knowledge-based economy has been a godsend. We thrive.
 But attention disorder cases, up to 5 to 15 percent of the population, are at a distinct disadvantage. What once conferred certain advantages in a hunter-gatherer era, in an agrarian age or even in an industrial age is now a potentially horrific character flaw, making people feel stupid or lazy and irresponsible, when in fact neither description is apt. 
 The term attention-deficit disorder turns out to be a misnomer. Most people who have it actually have remarkably good attention spans as long as they are doing activities that they enjoy or find stimulating. As Martha B. Denckla of the Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore has noted, we should probably be calling the condition something like ''intention-inhibition disorder,'' because it is a condition in which one's best intentions -- say, reading 50 pages in a dense textbook or writing a 10-page paper in a timely fashion -- go awry. 
 Essentially, A.D.H.D. is a problem dealing with the menial work of daily life, the tedium involved in many school situations and 9-to-5 jobs. 
 Another hallmark, impulsivity, or its more positive variant, spontaneity, appears to be a vestige from lower animals forced to survive in the wild. Wild animals cannot survive without an extraordinary ability to react. If predators lurk, they need to act quickly. 
 This vestige underscores the fact that human genetic variability, the fact that we are not all simply clones of one another, has allowed us to survive as a species for 150,000 years in a variety of contexts and environments. 
 In essence, attention-deficit disorder is context driven. In many situations of hands-on activities or activities that reward spontaneity, A.D.H.D. is not a disorder. 
 Ultimately, if studies show convincing evidence that children and adults have been harmed by medications for attention disorder, cardiologists will have every obligation to tell us to halt their use.
 But a more fundamental societal accommodation would be highly beneficial -- to recognize that each child and adult learns and performs better in certain contexts than others. 
 As Arthur Levine, president of the Teachers College at Columbia University, has noted, future teachers will be able to individualize and customize the education of students. 
 Some children and young adults with attention disorder may need more hands-on learning. Some may perform more effectively using computers and games rather than books. Some may do better with field work and wilderness programs. 
 If it is indeed a context-driven disorder, let's change the contexts in schools to accommodate the needs of children who have it, not just support and accommodate the needs of children with attention-surplus disorder. 
 For those with attention disorder who wish to be full participants in a knowledge-based world, medications equalize their opportunities. The drugs should and can be used only as needed in the context of dealing with the tedium of school or the drab paperwork of some jobs. 
 Cardiologists, biostatisticians and consumer advocates may clamor, appropriately or inappropriately, to reduce the use of the medications. But unless we go back to the caveman world, some people will find the drugs increasingly necessary to succeed as knowledge workers in a drastically transformed modern world.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Robert St. James)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (90%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); CLONING (75%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); PSYCHIATRY (71%); WRITERS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); ANIMALS (63%) Mental Health and Disorders; Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder; Education and Schools; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

COMPANY: KENNEDY KRIEGER INSTITUTE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%)

PERSON: Paul (Dr) Steinberg

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



139 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Economic Anxieties Contribute to a Day of Profit-Taking

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Rising bond yields led to a sell-off on Wall Street yesterday as persistent nervousness about the economy and interest rates motivated investors to take profits. 
 Government bond prices tumbled for a fourth consecutive session, sending market interest rates higher and contributing to the broader decline in stocks.
 ''It seems like the market is obsessing on this bond market fallout, which was somewhat precipitated by the move to raise in Japan,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank. ''A lot of the fuel that has been used to invest in this bond market has been derived from easy money in Japan.'' 
 With Japan's economy improving, analysts believe the country's central bank is likely to raise rates soon; the bank's policy makers meet tomorrow and Thursday. Investors in the United States fear that rising interest rates in other countries could contribute to more rate increases domestically. 
 With little other data to quell anxiety about the economy's health and price inflation, investors felt safer pulling out of the market despite a decline in oil prices and acquisition news at AT&T and General Motors. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 63 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,958.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.97 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,278.26, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 16.57 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,286.03. 
 The sole economic data yesterday came from the Commerce Department, which said domestic factory orders declined 4.5 percent in January, the biggest drop in five and a half years, but less than the 5.4 percent fall economists had forecast. 
 Wall Street continued its recent pattern of skittish trading as investors scoured government reports and corporate headlines for any hint of the economy's direction. This week brings data on employment and the trade deficit, but many will be focused on the Federal Reserve's March 28 meeting and any changes to the central bank's monetary policy. 
 Some investors expect the new chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, to take a softer stance and ease the Fed's string of interest rate increases, said Rick Pendergraft, an equity trader for Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''But that's not the case, and bonds continue to fall as rates rise.'' 
 Oil prices sank on indications that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries would not cut production levels. The April contract for a barrel of crude oil slipped $1.26, to settle at $62.41 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Mr. Ablin added that the pullback in crude oil futures weighed on the S.& P. 500. Exxon Mobil dropped $1, to $59.98, and Chevron was down $1.12, to $55.85. 
 BellSouth, which agreed over the weekend to be acquired by AT&T, jumped $3.04, to $34.50. AT&T slid 97 cents, to $27.02. 
 G.M. is shedding its 17.4 percent interest in Suzuki of Japan as part of its effort to rebound from huge losses and dwindling sales, but the companies said they would continue their partnership. G.M. rose 60 cents, at $19.81. 
 Research in Motion jumped $10.84, to $82.76. The company said after the close of trading on Friday that it would pay NTP $612.5 million to settle a long-running patent dispute over technology used in its BlackBerry hand-held device. 
 Interest rates were higher with the 10-year Treasury bill yielding 4.75 percent, up from 4.68 percent on Friday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 17/32, to 98 1/32.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auctions of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:These are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.862	97.674	High Rate	 4.500	 4.600	Investment Rate	 4.615	 4.775	Low Rate	 4.475	 4.570	Median Rate	 4.490	 4.590	Total applied for	$54,080,888	$47,195,491	Accepted	$28,029,998	$25,979,123	Noncompetitive	$2,190,925	$1,781,550	

Both issues are dated Mar. 09, 2006. The three-month bills mature on June 08, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 07, 2006.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills
 in percent at weekly auction from November 2005 through to February 2006. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FUTURES (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



140 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Slipped 4.5% In January

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Orders placed with factories in the United States dropped 4.5 percent in January. It was the biggest decrease since July 2000, but a smaller fall than had been forecast. The decline reflected reduced demand for Boeing aircraft, according to a report from the Commerce Department. Excluding transportation, orders rose 1.6 percent. 
 Demand for business equipment rose for a fourth straight month, pointing to increases in manufacturing.
The decline in factory orders followed a 1.6 percent rise in December. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a median decline of 5.4 percent in January, with forecasts ranging from a decrease of 4 percent to a drop of 7.5 percent.
 Industrial equipment orders jumped 55 percent, while demand for aluminum, mining and metal-working equipment also increased.
 Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, an indicator of future business investment, rose 0.1 percent, after gaining 4.9 percent in December. 
 Shipments of these goods, which the government uses to calculate figures on gross domestic product, rose 0.4 percent, after increasing 3.8 percent.
 ''Business capital spending is coming on strong and the timing of these equipment purchases could not be better,'' said Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. ''Business spending will take up the slack as the housing slowdown cools consumers' appetites.''
 Contracts to buy previously owned homes dropped in January for a fifth month, according to a separate report from the National Association of Realtors. Pending sales of previously owned homes fell 1.1 percent in January, after a 2.6 percent decrease. Home sales are forecast to fall in 2006 after five years of records.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Factory Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted.Jan.: -4.5%Dec.: +1.6Nov.: +3.3(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (76%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (71%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (65%) United States Economy; Housing; Sales; Machinery and Equipment

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (68%); BOEING CO (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (82%) Commerce Department; National Assn of Realtors

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (68%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



141 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: W.T.O. Backs U.S. in Sweetener Dispute

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization ruled against Mexico in a soft-drink dispute with the United States. A W.T.O. panel rejected a Mexican appeal in favor of American arguments that Mexico was in breach of international law in imposing a 20 percent tax on drinks sweetened with anything other than cane sugar grown there. Before the tax was imposed in 2002, Mexico had been a top market for high-fructose corn syrup from the United States. Today, the American share of the market is about 6 percent of earlier levels, according to the United States trade representative's office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOFT DRINKS (88%); VERDICTS (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (88%); LITIGATION (86%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (54%) Soft Drinks; International Trade and World Market; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Sugar; Customs (Tariff)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



142 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Landmark Ferry Building May Become Food Market

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The little-used Battery Maritime Building, a freshly renovated and richly riveted Beaux-Arts landmark in Lower Manhattan that still serves as the gateway to Governors Island, would become a culinary temple in a redevelopment plan offered yesterday by the Bloomberg administration.
 Dozens of market stalls might fill the grand public hall where commuters in the early 20th century waited, under the fierce gaze of grotesque dolphins perched atop 30-foot-tall columns, to cross the harbor to 39th Street in South Brooklyn. A wine or coffee bar might be placed at one end, a demonstration kitchen at the other. Diners could sit out on a monumental loggia overlooking South Street and Battery Park. 
''What New York is really missing is a great market hall in a historic building,'' said Kate Ascher, the executive vice president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which is looking for a developer to undertake the project. She added that the hall should have a ''very public use'' because a lot of public money has gone into it. 
 The corporation's request for proposals, issued yesterday, may be its first such document to use words like ''artisanal cheese,'' ''hand-crafted wines,'' ''humanely raised grass-fed meats'' and ''foodies.''
 City officials have been trying for 23 years to figure out what to do with the Battery Maritime Building on the East River. (That is almost as long as it served the 39th Street ferryboats.) Until 2001, when a $58 million exterior renovation began, the structure sat like an ornate green ghost next to the Whitehall Ferry Terminal, from which the Staten Island ferries sail.
 To a pedestrian, the Battery Maritime Building still feels difficult to approach and it is somewhat isolated, on the far side of the Battery Park underpass ramp. 
 The corporation said that developers were free to propose their own ideas but that it would favor conversion of the four-story building into a center where food is sold, served, cooked, consumed and prepared and where food classes are taught. Ferries will continue to use the building's three berths, with service to Governors Island from Slip No. 7.
 ''The stars are aligned for this in fact to be possible and to arrive, fully formed, on the half shell,'' said Clark Wolf, a food and restaurant consultant based in New York, who is not connected with the project. Mr. Wolf cited the success of the Grand Central Market, where commuters shop on their way home; ''destination food villages'' like Chelsea Market; and the Ferry Building Marketplace in San Francisco, which also occupies a once-neglected landmark.
 ''The good news,'' he said, ''is that it's really hard to have too much food.''
 Too much food is certainly not a problem in Lower Manhattan.
 ''We don't have a large market,'' said Julie Menin, the chairwoman of Community Board 1. ''We have very few grocery stores. It has been one of the No. 1 complaints of residents in terms of the quality of life.''
 For that reason, she said, the community is ''very much in favor of a food use'' at the Battery Maritime Building, though it would also like to see some kind of cultural tenant there, too. And she said neighbors did not want an ''overly tourist driven'' attraction like the South Street Seaport.
 The Battery Maritime Building opened in 1909 as the Municipal Ferry Terminal. South Brooklyn service succumbed in 1938 to competition from bridges and the subway. The 60-by-150-foot waiting room became a storage area. In 1988, the Dance Theater Workshop and Creative Time were named as cultural tenants of the building, as part of a larger project called South Ferry Plaza, which was scuttled in 1991.
 In 2001, the development corporation began renovating the exterior. Jan Hird Pokorny Associates were the architects and Tishman Construction Corporation was the construction manager. The $36 million budget grew after close inspection revealed much greater deterioration. The riveted cast-iron facade was taken apart into 11,600 pieces and put together again. ''It was quite a puzzle,'' said Judith S. Bernard, an assistant vice president of the corporation.
 One corner of the structure had settled two inches. To repair the columns framing the loggia, an open-air gallery, the entire roof had to be supported by temporary shoring towers. Searching for an analogy, Charles Silverman, the project director for Tishman, said, ''I took your femur out of your leg and left you standing at the same time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A detail of the Battery Maritime Building in Lower Manhattan.
 City planners envision dozens of food market stalls, as well as wine and coffee bars, inside the cavernous Battery Maritime Building. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); FERRIES (89%); MAYORS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CHEESE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (51%) Food; Historic Buildings and Sites; Ferries; Battery Maritime Building (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: New York City Economic Development Corp

PERSON: David W Dunlap; Kate Ascher; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



143 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Brownfields Law Insufficient For Safe Cleanups, Critics Say 

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
New York was one of the last states in the country to pass a law covering the cleanup and reuse of contaminated industrial properties called brownfields. 
 But environmental and community groups testified at a public hearing in Manhattan yesterday that although New York's law was not passed until 2003 -- several years after New Jersey and other states acted -- the delay has not meant that the state will do a better job of ensuring that those sites are redeveloped safely. 
New York's draft brownfields regulations ''could leave dangerous amounts of toxic contamination behind at thousands of sites across the state,'' said Joel Kelsey, campaigns coordinator for the New York Public Interest Research Group, an environmental advocacy organization. ''We need to clean these sites up, not pave them over.'' 
 Gabrielle M. DeMarco, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Environmental Conservation, said the draft regulations for the state's Brownfields Cleanup Program are intended to encourage the redevelopment of contaminated land for industrial, commercial and even residential use, but only after the hazards are adequately remediated to protect public health and the environment. 
 ''Remediation measures may differ for each project, based on the nature and extent of the contamination,'' Ms. DeMarco said, ''but the main priority of the state has and always will be to safeguard both public health and the environment.''
 New York's brownfields law was not passed until 2003, in part because it was tied to the refinancing of the state's Superfund program, which handles the cleanup of heavily contaminated sites. 
 Before 2003, New York ran a voluntary cleanup program for brownfield properties like gas stations and factories. Then, in 1996, the state started to use a $1.76 billion environmental bond act to provide grants to help municipalities and community groups clean derelict properties. 
 Ms. DeMarco said new brownfields law moves beyond that, setting cleanup standards based on how the property will be used. Land to be developed for residences, for example, must be cleaner than land that will be used for shopping. Developers who undertake decontamination projects would earn protection against liability suits, and, in certain cases, tax credits. 
 Councilman James F. Gennaro of Queens, the chairman of the Council's Committee on Environmental Protection, testified that the draft regulations may actually impede certain redevelopment in the city because they are too restrictive. 
 As now proposed, the regulations exclude moderately contaminated sites, crimping the plans of nonprofit community groups that hope to receive tax credits that could make affordable housing projects economically feasible. 
 ''Moderately contaminated sites are often the very properties that are most attractive for community-backed, public-purpose redevelopment projects,'' Mr. Gennaro said. ''And these are the very projects for which access to public funding is make or break.'' 
 Ellen Z. Harrison, director of the Cornell Waste Management Institute in Ithaca, N.Y., testified that the draft regulations contain cleanup standards for certain chemicals in contaminated soil -- like cadmium -- that are too high and pose an unnecessary risk. 
 Shirley Siegal of the League of Women Voters of Nassau County said that she doubted the state would have enough inspectors to ensure that all restrictions were followed. 
 More hearings will be held in Rochester and Albany before the public comment period is scheduled to end on March 27. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROWNFIELD SITES (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); TAX LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUPERFUND (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); BONDS (73%); LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); DEREGULATION (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Land Use Policies; Law and Legislation; Factories and Industrial Plants; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Waste Materials and Disposal

PERSON: Anthony Depalma; Gabrielle M DeMarco

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



144 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 478 words

PERSON: Philip Hall Coombs 

HEADLINE: Philip H. Coombs, 90, U.S. Diplomat With a Novel Agenda

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Philip H. Coombs, who championed promoting education and American culture as tools of diplomacy during the Kennedy administration and organized the first State Department bureau to lead the effort, died on Feb. 15 in Chester, Conn. He was 90. 
 The death was announced by his family.
In February 1961, shortly after taking office, President John F. Kennedy named Mr. Coombs to the new post of assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs. At the time he was program director for education in the Ford Foundation and had been an educational adviser to the governments of India and Turkey.
 With his White House appointment, to run the newly created Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, he sought to bring a new dimension to foreign policy by putting the State Department and its embassies in closer touch with leading cultural and educational figures and organizations overseas. 
 While holding that post he moved to Paris to organize the International Institute for Educational Planning and, as its first director, advised member states of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on steps to improve their educational systems.
 Mr. Coombs resigned from the State Department in mid-1962 with a letter to the secretary of state, Dean Rusk, saying that bureaucratic obstacles and a dearth of funds had hampered the department's educational mission. Still, he said, he had succeeded in making ''initial progress.'' The bureau he organized survives. 
 Mr. Coombs stayed on as director of the international institute in Paris through 1968. From 1970 until his retirement in 1992 he was vice chairman, and later chairman, of the International Council of Economic Development, where he focused on improving education in rural regions and developing countries.
 Philip Hall Coombs was born in Holyoke, Mass. With scholarships and part-time work he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Amherst College in 1937. He did graduate work in economics at the University of Chicago and became an instructor in economics at Williams College.
 He was the author of a number of books, notably ''The Fourth Dimension of Foreign Policy'' (1964); ''Education and Foreign Aid'' (1965); ''Attacking Rural Poverty: How Nonformal Education Can Help'' (1974); and ''The World Crisis in Education: The View From the Eighties'' (1985).
 Mr. Coombs is survived by his wife of 65 years, Helena Brooks Coombs; a son, Peter B., of Essex, Conn.; a daughter, Helena H. Weeks of Salem, Conn.; three grandchildren; and two great-granddaughters.
 ''We praise education's virtues and count on it to help the new generation solve great problems which the older generation has failed to solve,'' Secretary Coombs told an international meeting in Washington in 1961. ''But when it comes to spending more money for education, our deeds often fail to match our words.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (85%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); WRITERS (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR EDUCATIONAL PLANNING (56%); UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (55%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (58%) Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (71%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



145 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: House Conservatives Prepare Austere Alternative Budget

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 6 

 BODY:
With Congress heading into a politically perilous budget season, influential House conservatives plan this week to propose an austere alternative spending plan that would pare more than $650 billion over five years, balance the budget and drastically shrink three cabinet agencies. 
 The legislation, part of a push by some Republicans to re-establish themselves as champions of fiscal restraint, was taking shape as President Bush struck a similar theme on Monday by asking Congress to grant him line-item veto power to eliminate federal spending that he might judge wasteful. 
''We can't be all things to all people when it comes to spending the taxpayers' money,'' Mr. Bush said at a ceremony installing a new chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
 But House conservative leaders would go far beyond the president's own budget proposal, illustrating the difficulty the White House and the Republican leadership have had in persuading the caucus to speak with one voice on the matter. 
 Senior aides say the conservatives' plan would wring about $350 billion from Medicare, Medicaid and other social programs and save $300 billion partly through a major reorganization of the Education, Commerce and Energy Departments.
 ''We are putting our money where our mouth is,'' said one of the officials, who would discuss the proposal only without being identified because it was still being prepared for release Wednesday by leaders of the Republican Study Committee. 
 The officials said it was particularly important for conservatives to lay down a marker because the Senate is facing an imminent vote on whether to increase the statutory debt limit, which will remind the public of the increasing deficits under the Bush administration.
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow warned Congress on Monday that the federal government risked default without an increase in the debt limit and that the Republican-controlled Congress would soon be forced to address that issue.
 Conservatives contend that voters are disillusioned with Republicans over spending and that without a bold statement, the party faces potential losses in November. But some moderate Republicans are anxious about additional spending reductions, particularly after Congress enacted nearly $40 billion in cuts last year after a difficult fight.
 The new budget proposal is certain to be assailed by Democrats who accuse Republicans of forging ahead with tax cuts that benefit the affluent and add to the deficit while reducing support for those most in need. 
 ''This president will have piled up more debt than all of the presidents preceding him,'' Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee, said Monday as he joined other Democrats in accusing Republicans of shortchanging domestic security.
 The budget debate could be the first big challenge for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the majority leader, who won his position last month with help from House conservatives who will now be looking to him to help hold down spending. 
 Under the proposal, expected to be introduced by Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, and Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, military spending would continue to rise, administration tax cuts would be protected and Social Security would be spared. But many other programs and foreign aid would be greatly scaled back.
 The authors of the proposal describe it as a sequel to the Contract With America, which helped catapult Republicans to power in 1994. An outline of the plan says the proposals require ''tough choices, but members have expressed a serious desire to do the hard things to save America.'' 
 Mr. Bush's push for the line-item veto could benefit from the current scrutiny over the growing practice by lawmakers of inserting spending for pet projects into legislation -- a practice that has figured into continuing corruption scandals. 
 Congress gave President Bill Clinton line-item veto authority in 1996, but the Supreme Court overturned the law, saying it violated the Constitution by giving the president the power to amend legislation. Under the new proposal, the president would be able to identify objectionable projects and then send them back to Capitol Hill for an up-or-down vote without requiring a veto of the entire bill.
 Though members of Congress are typically reluctant to cede too much power over spending to the executive branch, several lawmakers gave initial expressions of support, including House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, and Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 ''It's no secret that President Bush and I don't agree on much,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''but I fully support giving him the line-item veto.'' 
 But Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, had an opposite view, calling the line-item veto ''old hat.''
 ''I don't think this Congress is ready for line-item veto,'' Mr. Reid said, adding, ''I just think it's an effort by President Bush to divert attention from real issues this country has.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush in Washington yesterday with Edward P. Lazear who was sworn in as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); VETO (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MEDICARE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MEDICAID (52%) Finances; National Debt (US)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); ED LAZEAR (56%) Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



146 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: M.I.T. to Match Federal Grant Money for Lower-Income Students

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Reflecting broadening concern that high school students of modest means will be priced out of a college education, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology plans to provide matching money to students who have received federal Pell Grants, which are awarded based on financial need. 
 ''We decided that it was very important to give students from these low-income families as much of a break as we could,'' Susan Hockfield, president of M.I.T., said yesterday. ''We're very concerned about access to higher education.''
In recent years, institutions like Harvard, Yale and the University of North Carolina have announced initiatives to make higher education more affordable to low- and moderate-income students and bring more economic diversity to campus. 
 As tuition and other costs rise, officials have become increasingly concerned that moderate-income high school students are being deterred from attending costly institutions because they fear taking on tens of thousands of dollars in debt. Another concern is that students who do attend such institutions feel constrained by their debt obligations in making postgraduate career choices. 
 That is why more colleges and universities are focusing on providing grants, which do not have to be repaid, said Robert Shireman, executive director of the Project on Student Debt, which is financed primarily by the Pew Charitable Trusts. 
 For the 2004-5 academic year, Pell Grant awards ranged from $400 to $4,050, according to the Web site of the federal Department of Education. Tuition, room and board at M.I.T. will be $43,550 next year, Dr. Hockfield said. About 12 to 15 percent of the institution's 4,136 undergraduate students receive Pell money. 
 M.I.T. students graduate with an average of nearly $20,000 in student debt, Dr. Hockfield said. About 72 percent of M.I.T.'s undergraduates receive some form of need-based financial aid, she added.
 Dr. Hockfield said the institute decided to adopt a matching funds policy because Congress had not increased the maximum size of a Pell Grant. Under the M.I.T. plan, students will be able to reduce the amount they have to borrow or the hours they have to work while in school.
 ''Students who have the intellectual ability and the drive to achieve at a place like M.I.T., we want them to be able to feel that they can do this without further burdening their families,'' Dr. Hockfield said. The institute will announce the plan today. 
 The size of a Pell Grant turns on several factors, said Dan Madzelan, director of forecasting and policy analysis at the Office of Postsecondary Education at the Education Department, including family size and expenses, for example. A family of four -- two children, one working parent and one nonworking parent -- might qualify for Pell money if the family earned less than $50,000 annually, Mr. Madzelan said.
 Students receive the maximum award possible less the expected family contribution, he said, which is calculated as a part of family income that does not go toward taxes, home payments or other essentials.
 The Pell Grants are not reduced by the amount of other financial aid a student receives, Mr. Madzelan said. That means M.I.T.'s plan should not have the perverse effect of shrinking the initial Pell Grant awarded to a student. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); GRANTS & GIFTS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); MATCHING GIFTS (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WEB SITES (50%) Colleges and Universities; Pell Grants ; Student Loans; Tuition; Pell Grants; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%) Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006



147 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Visionaries And Rascals In Florida's Wetlands

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

The Swamp The Everglades, Florida and the Politics of Paradise
By Michael Grunwald
Illustrated. 450 pages. Simon & Schuster. $27.
 For at least a century and a half, the Everglades wrestled with an image problem. Today, looking at its endless acres of swaying sawgrass, Americans see precious wetlands, home to the egret and the orchid. But for earlier generations, the Everglades was simply a swamp, a mosquito-infested wasteland. ''The first and most abiding impression is the utter worthlessness to civilized man, in its present condition, of the entire region,'' wrote Buckingham Smith, a Harvard-educated lawyer and historian sent by the government to study the Everglades in the 1840's.
Drain it, settle it and put it to productive use. That was the mission, pursued zealously by wave after wave of engineers, politicians, real estate sharks, simple farmers and sun chasers from the North and Midwest. Their quest, fueled by ignorance and greed, transformed one the country's great natural wonders into an ecological disaster area, or to adopt the persuasive metaphor proposed by Michael Grunwald in ''The Swamp,'' a desperately sick patient. There is still movement in the limbs, and a faint touch of color in the cheeks. After an almost fatal delay, doctors have arrived on the scene. But the vital signs are weak. The Everglades may not make it. 
 Mr. Grunwald, a reporter for The Washington Post, tells three intertwined stories in ''The Swamp.'' Beginning at the beginning, he describes the creation of the Everglades, the unique ''river of grass'' whose exotic wildlife and vegetation held naturalists like John James Audubon spellbound, and traces the ill-advised efforts to tame it. His second theme is politics and power, the high-stakes battles over the Everglades waged by environmentalists, developers, sugar barons and politicians. 
 Finally, there is ''the swamp'' itself, whose intricate, far-flung ecological system Mr. Grunwald evokes in loving detail, from the twists and turns of the Kissimmee River to the shores of Lake Okeechobee to the herons, mangroves and purple gallinutes of the Glades. He even finds imaginative space for periphyton, the ''golden-brown Everglades goop'' that clumps around aquatic plants ''like slimy oatmeal sweaters,'' providing nutrition for small fish, prawns, insects and snails. The Everglades, Mr. Grunwald writes, was always too subtle to command love and respect, ''less ooh or aah than hmm.'' In his hands, the ooh and aah come to life.
 ''The Swamp'' abounds in rascals, visionaries and visionary rascals. One of Mr. Grunwald's virtues is his clear-eyed refusal to impose present-day standards on past behavior. The can-do engineers and ruthless tycoons who looked at Florida's squishy, malarial landscape and saw paradise in the making usually thought they were rendering a service to mankind. The most enlightened minds of the Progressive era believed in a ''wise use'' policy toward nature. The land and its gifts were there to be managed and turned to profitable account, and that's exactly what the early would-be conquerors of the Everglades intended to do. ''The Everglades of Florida should be saved,'' Napoleon Bonaparte Broward announced after being elected governor in 1904. ''They should be drained and made fit for cultivation.'' 
 Mr. Grunwald, a terrific writer, moves along at a cracking pace. The dredges dig, the railroad advances, the politicians scheme and the dreamers paint their Technicolor fantasies. There is a feverish quality to the endless engineering assaults, the mad plans to rechannel the circulatory system of the Everglades, the blind determination to ignore the forces of nature. For example, no one quite understood that South Florida often experienced powerful hurricanes, so hundreds of poor farmers died in 1926 and 1927 when Lake Okeechobee overflowed. 
 The wildlife seemed like an inexhaustible resource, so when the fashion in women's hats demanded feathers, plume hunters went on a rampage, killing spoonbills, great white herons, snowy egrets and flamingos. An estimated five million birds were slaughtered in 1886 alone. A birdwatcher strolling along the Ladies' Mile in Manhattan saw feathers from 160 species in the store windows. Some hats supported entire birds. Belatedly, Florida imposed a plume ban, and in 1903 Teddy Roosevelt created a five-acre bird sanctuary on Pelican Island. 
 Again and again, wanton destruction led to horrified realization, followed by remorse and pledges to repair the damage, or the creation of parks, most notably the Everglades National Park in 1947. But year after year, acre by acre, the Everglades shrank. The Army Corps of Engineers continued to see flood control and economic development as its primary mission, not protection of the ecosystem. 
 ''The Swamp'' turns a corner in the early 1970's, when the heroic era of digging and planting and damming comes to an end. The last third of the book deals increasingly with intricate political and economic maneuvering over the Everglades. Nowadays, all politicians want to be seen as friends of the Glades. Rock-ribbed conservatives have found common cause with conservationist firebrands. Conversely, in the last presidential election, friends of the earth lined up against the ecologically sensitive Al Gore when he refused to take a stand against a proposed airport in Homestead, on the Everglades' fringes. 
 Elections, Mr. Grunwald points out, tend to be very good for the Everglades. In 2000, the $8 billion Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan was making its way through Congress. It passed because E. Clay Shaw Jr., the 10-term Republican congressman from Fort Lauderdale, found himself in a tight race, and the Republicans held a razor-thin majority in the House. The speaker, J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, threw his full weight behind the plan. ''We knew this could come down to two seats, and if that meant we had to spend $8 billion for Mr. Shaw, that's what we were going to do,'' an aide to Mr. Hastert recalled. 
 ''The Swamp'' ends on an uncertain note. The Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan passed, but its goals seem ambiguous. Half the original Everglades has disappeared, the remainder is slowly dying and the pressures of population growth and development in Florida continue unabated. (The sugar fields may one day give way to something even worse: condominiums.) Good intentions, and lots of government money, may not be enough. In the future there may be no ooh, no aah, not even hmm.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Grunwald (Photo by The Washington Post)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WETLANDS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); BIRDS (77%); MALARIA (76%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (76%); FISHES (73%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); LAKES (72%); LAWYERS (55%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: William Grimes; Michael Grunwald

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



148 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Sad Suspicions About Scores In Basketball 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE downfall of the ''Goodfellas'' mafiosi started with the Lufthansa job at Kennedy Airport in New York. At the time, it was the largest cash robbery in history. ''Lufthansa should have been our ultimate score,'' Ray Liotta, playing the mobster Henry Hill, said in the movie. Instead, the movie gangsters called attention to themselves with flashy purchases like a hot-pink Cadillac and, as the police closed in, began killing each other.
 But Henry Hill survived, in the movie and in real life. Less than a week after the robbery in December 1978, he was sitting in the Boston Garden watching a basketball game that he had helped fix. He had paid off two Boston College players to beat Harvard by less than the 12-point spread. Boston College won, 86-83, and Mr. Hill won his $15,000 bet. 
 This time next week, a few million Americans will be filling out office pool betting sheets for the coming N.C.A.A. tournament, and I don't imagine that many of us will spend much time thinking about the sport's grubby past. 
 College basketball is a big business today, and betting on it is not merely a sideline for mobsters. It is a national pastime. 
 One thing about the sport, however, has not really changed since Henry Hill's day. Of all the major forms of betting -- lotteries, poker, craps, slots, football -- college basketball is almost certainly the easiest to fix. 
 It is played by young men who don't usually have a lot of money. With just five players on the court, one person can determine the outcome. And the point-spread system, in which bets are based on the margin of victory rather than wins and losses, allows players to fix a game without losing it.
 ''There's every reason to think this is as bad as it gets,'' Justin Wolfers, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania, said. 
 Mr. Wolfers, a blond pony-tailed Australian, calls himself part of a new generation of forensic economists -- researchers who sift through data to look for patterns of cheating that otherwise go unnoticed. The best-selling book ''Freakonomics'' by Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt is based partly on this kind of work.
 THE showpiece of forensic economics is research done a few years ago that suggested that mutual fund traders were regularly backdating their trades. Wall Street attacked the findings at first. But they stood up to scrutiny, and Eliot Spitzer, New York's attorney general, used them to force reforms on the industry.
 You can probably guess where this is going. Mr. Wolfers has collected the results of nearly every college basketball game over the last 16 years. In a surprisingly large number of them, it turns out that heavy favorites just miss covering the spread. He considered a number of other explanations, but he thinks there is only one that can explain the pattern. Point shaving appears to be occurring in about 5 percent of all games with large spreads. 
 Officials at the National Collegiate Athletic Association say they do not believe that the problem is nearly so large. Jay Kornegay, who oversees the betting lines at the Las Vegas Hilton, told me that Mr. Wolfers's conclusions sounded ''ludicrous.'' But I'm not so sure about that. 
 When Mr. Wolfers began his research, he started with a question: If there were really a lot of point shaving going on, what sort of tracks would it leave in the data? 
 In all likelihood, the cheating would be concentrated among heavily favored teams. Point spreads require gamblers to bet on whether the favored team will win by at least a certain margin. By agreeing to fall short of that, players can fix a game and still not risk losing it. 
 ''It's the favorites with the big spreads,'' Kenny White, an influential Las Vegas oddsmaker, said, ''that have the biggest advantage to be able to do something.''
 Past scandals also suggest that is how it works. When Stevin Smith was fixing games at Arizona State in the 1990's to erase some big gambling debts, he hit some big shots and helped his team win games. But he backed off just a little on defense to make sure his opponents covered the spread.
 ''I made myself feel better by always saying that I wasn't making my team lose, just helping myself out of a bad situation,'' Mr. Smith later wrote in Sports Illustrated.
 This is precisely the pattern Mr. Wolfers believes that he has found. Smaller favorites -- teams favored by 12 or fewer points -- beat the spread almost exactly 50 percent of the time, showing how good those oddsmakers are at their jobs. But heavy favorites cover in only 47 percent of their games. There is little chance that the difference is due to randomness. 
 This is not persuasive by itself, because there are some obvious explanations besides point shaving. Heavy favorites may remove their best players at the end of the game, for instance, or simply slack off, not caring what their winning margin is.
 But here's Mr. Wolfers's smoking gun: this slacking off seems to happen only when a game is decided by something close to the point spread. Heavy favorites actually blow away the spread just as often as everyone else. But they win by barely more than the spread a lot less often than slight favorites do. 
 There is a strange dearth of games in which 12-point favorites win by, say, 13 or 16 points. And there are a lot of games that they win by 11 points or slightly less. There is just no good explanation for this. 
 ''You shouldn't have what's happening on the court reflecting what's happening in Las Vegas,'' Mr. Wolfers said. ''And that's exactly what's happening.''
 This isn't proof, to be sure. Forensic economics rarely provides that. But when it fits with other evidence, it can make a pretty compelling case. College basketball has had a point-shaving scandal about once every decade. And in a recent N.C.A.A. poll, 1.5 percent of players admitted knowing of a teammate ''who took money for playing poorly.'' 
 So, by all means, the N.C.A.A. and the rest of us should enjoy these next few weeks. But when the tournament is over, the people who run college basketball may want to get in touch with Mr. Wolfers. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, the byline for a column in Business Day yesterday about suspicions of point-shaving in college basketball was omitted in some copies. The column was written by David Leonhardt.
Because of a production error, the byline for a column in Business Day yesterday about suspicions of point-shaving in college basketball was omitted in some copies. The column was written by David Leonhardt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); BASKETBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); FORENSICS (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (74%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS TAMPERING (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); BESTSELLERS (50%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%) Basketball; Cheating; College Athletics; Economics

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (83%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%) National Collegiate Athletic Assn

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Justin Wolfers

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



149 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Wild Web of China; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: 110 Million Surfers Can Buy Sex and Drugs, but Reform Is Still Illicit 

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, March 7 

 BODY:
By some estimates, there are more than 30,000 people patrolling the Web in China, helping to form one of the world's far-reaching Internet filtering systems.
 But while China's huge Internet police force is busy deleting annoying phrases like ''free speech'' and ''human rights'' from online bulletin boards, specialists say that Wild West capitalism has moved from the real economy in China to the virtual one.
Indeed, the unchecked freedoms that exist on the Web, analysts say, are perhaps unwittingly ushering in an age of startling social change. The Web in China is a thriving marketplace for everyone, including scam artists, snake oil salesmen and hard-core criminals who are only too eager to turn consumers into victims.
 Chinese entrepreneurs who started out brazenly selling downloadable pirated music and movies from online storefronts have extended their product lines -- peddling drugs and sex, stolen cars, firearms and even organs for transplanting. 
 Much of this is happening because Internet use has grown so fast, with 110 million Web surfers in China, second only to the United States. Last year, online revenue -- which the government defines more broadly than it is in the United States -- was valued at $69 billion, up around 58 percent from the year before, according to a survey by the China Internet Development Research Center. 
 By 2010, Wall Street analysts say China could have the world's leading online commerce, with revenue coming from advertising, e-commerce and subscription fees, as well as illicit services. 
 The authorities have vowed to crack down on illegal Web sites and say that more than 2,000 sex and gambling sites have been shut down in recent years. But new sites are eluding them every day.
 ''It's a wild place,'' Xiao Qiang, director of the China Internet Project at the graduate journalism school of the University of California, Berkeley, said of China's Web. ''Outside of politics, China is as free as anywhere. You can find porn just about anywhere on the Internet.'' 
 On any of China's leading search engines, enter sensitive political terms like ''Tiananmen Square'' or ''Falun Gong,'' and the computer is likely to crash or simply offer a list of censored Web sites. But terms like ''hot sex'' or ''illegal drugs'' take users to dozens of links to Web sites allowing them to download sex videos, gain entry to online sports gambling dens or even make purchases of heroin. The scams are flourishing.
 A small sampling recently turned up these sites:
 A look-alike Web site pretending to be part of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China asks visitors to enter their account passwords.
 A Web site that calls itself Honest Company specializes in deception -- selling bugging devices, machines to produce fake credit cards and tools that rig casino slot machines. 
 A pornographic Web site asks people to pay $2 a month to download sex videos and chat with other online customers in the nude.
 A Web site advertises the sale of gamma hydroxybutyrate, a drug that acts as a relaxant and is thought to reduce inhibitions. Sometimes called a ''date rape'' drug, it is sold on the Web in China with instructions about how to use it to assault women. 
 Even the official New China News Agency seems to have gotten into the act. While the top of its news pages carries dispatches like ''China Aims to Achieve Balance of Payments in 2006,'' some at the bottom feature links to soft-porn photographs of Chinese movie stars like Gong Li and Zhou Xun.
 ''The Internet is a reflection of the real world,'' says Lu Weigang, an analyst at the China Internet Network Information Center in Beijing. ''Everything you have in the real world appears on the Internet.''
 Countless Web sites peddle police weapons, pepper spray and even machines to siphon electricity from power lines. Earlier this week, an eBay user in China offered to put up for auction his or her kidney and liver for $100,000. Reached on Monday, eBay said that selling human organs was forbidden on its site and deleted the entry. 
 And a Web site called the Patriotic Hacker asserts that an instructor ''led and initiated attacks on Japanese Web sites more than 10 times.'' It says he even managed to shut down the official Web site for the Yasukuni Shrine, dedicated to Japan's World War II military heroes. 
 There are also Web sites here that sell ''miracle drugs'' promising to cure cancer or AIDS, sites that say they will create fake government ID cards; some that even promise to break into the national education database to change official records. 
 Most of the sites are forbidden by law. On paper, the government's Internet regulations forbid the display of any information that damages state security, harms the dignity of the state, promotes pornography and gambling, or ''spreads evil cults'' and ''feudal superstitions.'' 
 How does all this get by the Internet patrols in a country where violators risk 3 to 10 years in prison, or in some cases even the death penalty? Analysts say that the growth in the Internet has simply created too many sites to patrol. In contrast, there are too few incentives to close down sites, particularly when government-owned Internet service providers, telecommunications companies and even state-run Web sites are making big profits from them.
 ''The Chinese government launches campaigns on the Internet to crack down on pornography or the sale of illegal goods once or twice a year, but this is not an efficient way,'' Mr. Lu at the China Internet Network Information Center said. 
 What is successful is online entertainment. Baidu.com, a Google-like search engine, has a daily poll of the top 10 most beautiful women. Sina.com publishes a popular celebrity blog by the actress and director Xu Jinglei. 
 A social networking Web site, 51.com, opened last August, and months later its owner, a Shanghai-based private company, said the site had more than three million registered users, mostly 15 to 25, who create personalized Web pages and meet online. ''Most Internet services are about entertainment,'' said Pang Shengdong, 29, who founded 51.com. ''What do people do every day other than make money? They entertain themselves.''
 Richard Ji, an Internet analyst at Morgan Stanley, said traffic in this country was dominated by young singles, many of them searching for games, dates, entertainment and community. A recent survey found that nearly 38 percent of the nation's Internet users search for entertainment on the Web. The growing enthusiasm for the Internet in China is one reason some of the biggest Internet and technology companies, like Microsoft, Yahoo and Google, are eager to have a presence here, even if it means submitting to China's stringent censorship rules. 
 In the view of Dali L. Yang, a professor of political science at the University of Chicago: ''It's truly remarkable. This is fundamentally a social revolution.''
 Mr. Yang says that the social dynamics taking place on the Web might once have been considered political, and certainly marks of a bourgeois lifestyle. 
 ''But now,'' he said, ''the Communist Party realizes that in a market economy and a globalized economy, they don't have the manpower to cover it all. It may be political, but it's not high politics.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pang Shengdong, founder of the Web site 51.com, said most of his three million young users created their own Web pages in quest of a social life. (Photo by Lin Weijian/ImagineChina)(pg. C15)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET FILTERS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TRENDS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); OBSCENITY (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (74%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HEROIN (68%); POLITICS (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (65%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SURFING (56%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (53%) Computers and the Internet; Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights; Economic Conditions and Trends; Frauds and Swindling; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Pornography and Obscenity; Automobiles; Robberies and Thefts; Firearms; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: China Internet Development Research Center

TICKER: 1398 (HKSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%)

PERSON: David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



150 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: Slowly, Africa Starts to Care for AIDS Children 

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE

DATELINE: MASERU, Lesotho 

 BODY:
Staff members of the new pediatric AIDS clinic here are used to seeing sick children. But rarely had they seen one so ill as the silent, twig-thin youngster led in by his grandmother one hot morning in February. 
 The boy, Tsokotsa Lepheane, age 7, weighed 36 pounds. His hair was thin and patchy, his eyes dull. He stripped to his royal blue underpants slowly, with obvious effort, revealing emaciated limbs and a torso tattooed by a blotchy rash.
 ''Wow,'' said one nurse, out of his hearing. Another murmured, ''Look at him.'' 
 Less than a year ago, Tsokotsa would have been destined to follow his parents, both buried in the last five years after suffering from AIDS-like symptoms. In Lesotho, as throughout much of sub-Saharan Africa, children with AIDS were generally considered a lost cause. Treatment, to the extent it existed, was limited to adults, for whom antiretroviral therapy is cheaper and easier. 
 Now, that is slowly changing. Through some charitable foundations, pediatric AIDS medication is available for as little as $200 a year, half of what it used to cost and only $60 more a year than adult medication. Governments, international agencies and private charities have begun to train the region's ragtag health care corps to treat children. 
 Here in Lesotho (pronounced lay-SOTE-ho), two pediatric AIDS clinics have opened in the capital in the last year, and seven hospitals have begun to offer antiretroviral treatment.
 Still, only a few children get help. Perhaps 8,000 need antiretroviral therapy, government health officials say; a mere 261 were receiving it at year's end. 
 Death comes swiftly for those who go without. Half of all untreated H.I.V.-positive infants die before the age of 2 for lack of medication that can produce transformations seemingly overnight. With medicine, some American infants infected since birth have survived into adulthood and become parents themselves.
 ''Children do very well on treatment,'' said Chewe Luo, the senior H.I.V. adviser for Unicef. ''We just haven't stepped up to the plate to make sure they get it.''
 There are several reasons. Fewer children are infected -- an estimated 2.1 million in sub-Saharan Africa, compared with 25 million adults. Specialized and costly tests are needed to determine whether a child under 18 months is infected, although treatment can begin based on symptoms alone.
 Children are also more complicated to treat, partly because their medication must be constantly adjusted as their height and weight change. And pediatric drugs cost more than adult medication -- until recently, up to three times as much. 
 But the biggest hurdle facing children in need of treatment, Dr. Luo maintains, is that they are children. 
 ''Their voice just hasn't been there,'' she said in a telephone interview from New York. ''Countries were much more focused on the adults who were dying. Nobody stopped to think about children. It is only in the past year that pressure has mounted to treat them.''
 In Lesotho, a nation of 1.8 million encircled by South Africa, more than one in four adults is believed to be infected with H.I.V., the third highest infection rate in the world. Treatment for adults began only in November 2004. Treatment for children followed last April. 
 Caseloads have been swelling ever since. But with an average of one doctor for every 20,000 people, patients sit shoulder-to-shoulder, sometimes waiting more than a day to be seen at a hospital. Health care workers continue to leave for better-paying work in South Africa, Britain or elsewhere.
 In all Lesotho, there is only one government-paid pediatrician. Recruited from Congo, he does not speak the local language, Sesotho. One health care district south of the capital lost a quarter of its nurses last year. 
 ''Everybody is running away,'' said Maneo Tsoaeli, the head nurse of the government-run 132-bed Quthing Hospital, on Lesotho's southern border. ''The situation is so pathetic. This is why when you come back, I myself may not be here.'' 
 Lesotho officials have yet to treat AIDS like the national emergency it is, said Tim Rwabuhemba, Lesotho director for the United Nations AIDS agency. But other experts praise the government's determination to battle the epidemic, and foundations and charities are beginning to flock here.
 The World Bank and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria are pouring millions into the national budget for AIDS programs. The Clinton Foundation persuaded one pharmaceutical firm to halve its prices for pediatric AIDS medicines, and is donating the drugs to Lesotho and other nations. 
 In July, the foundation opened a new pediatric AIDS center at the busy Queen Elizabeth II Hospital in Maseru. With $2 million from the pharmaceutical firm Bristol-Myers Squibb, Baylor College of Houston built another pediatric center and is operating it with financial help from the Lesotho government. 
 Doctors Without Borders is training nurses in 14 clinics, hoping to demonstrate that AIDS care need not be centered in hospitals nor depend so heavily on doctors. 
 Experts say such training is the only way to offset the huge loss of trained medical workers. Nurses must fill in for doctors and nurse's aides for nurses; everyone from retirees to AIDS patients themselves must spread the message that treatment is now available. 
 In Quthing, only 13 children have begun treatment since an antiretroviral clinic opened at the red brick hospital in July. Many more could probably be traced through the prenatal clinic next door, which treats a steady stream of H.I.V.-positive pregnant women who may infect their newborns during pregnancy, delivery or breast-feeding. 
 Keneuoe Chabeli, the prenatal clinic's counselor, urges women to bring in their newborns to be examined. ''But I never see them again,'' she said. 
 Ms. Tsoaeli, the hospital's head nurse, said no one had time to follow up with new mothers. ''We know we are not giving proper service,'' she said. ''Definitely not. We need manpower.''
 For Dr. Roland Monika, the government's sole pediatrician, a recent Thursday was typical. The waiting room at the pediatric AIDS clinic in Queen Elizabeth II, the nation's premier hospital, was packed by 8:30 a.m. He also needed at least to check on 42 children in the inpatient ward, most of them H.I.V.-infected, some squeezed three to a crib. Another ward brimmed with newborns. 
 Finally, a white wooden bench for outpatients was packed with seven more sick children and their adults, who plucked his sleeve at every opportunity.
 By 10:45 a.m., Dr. Monika's frustration spilled over. ''I can't deal with the outpatients who are stable,'' he said loudly in the direction of the bench. ''I must see the patients who are very sick.''
 ''Please, come back tomorrow,'' he begged. ''Please.''
 Yet is was far worse seven months ago, Dr. Monika said, when he had no medicines for children with AIDS. An average of three children a day died then, he said, compared with three to seven a week now. Amid stopped-up sinks, broken cribs and grandmothers napping on the floor, he pointed out recovering patients. In nine months, 105 children have been put on treatment.
 Mamoliti, a 13-year-old sixth grader, is one. When she was admitted to the hospital last April, she had already lost her mother, her father and her 2-year-old brother, all apparently to AIDS. She knew she was infected.
 ''I was very sick,'' she recalled, during an outpatient visit. ''I was afraid because at that time there was no medicine to drink and no tablets. But after being here, I was very better, better, better, better.'' 
 Lying in a hospital bed has given way to math classes, soccer and leaping over puddles, thanks to the little pills she carries in a pink plastic purse. When her grandmother was unable to escort her, she made the long bus trip to the clinic alone, waiting all day for Dr. Monika and a fresh supply of pills, nervously asking the time so she would not miss her 6 p.m. dose.
 By the time 7-year-old Tsokotsa showed up at Maseru's other new pediatric clinic, in early February, pitifully thin and rash-covered, he had been seriously ill for about five years. His mother died in 2000, his father in 2003. His grandmother, Mamohau Lepheane, 67 and half-blind, sold homemade brooms for the $5 bus fare to the clinic. She said Tsokotsa had to stop repeatedly to rest on the walk from the bus stop to the clinic.
 Tsokotsa quit school in 2004, she said, too sick to study, and began avoiding other children. In recent weeks, he had begun to refuse food, drinking hot water instead -- medicine, he called it -- to ease the pain in his throat and chest.
 Between the curled covers of two notebooks, health care workers had documented Tsokotsa's suffering: pneumonia, tuberculosis, vomiting, skin rashes, fevers, malnutrition, diarrhea. But not one had recommended that he be tested for H.I.V.
 Dr. Lineo Thahane, a 30-year-old American-trained pediatrician sent here by the Baylor College of Medicine, quickly determined that Tsokotsa was in the final stages of AIDS. She found enlarged lymph nodes, an enlarged liver, scabies, ringworm, evidence of chronic lung disease and a fungal infection of his esophagus. His CD-4 count, a measure of the strength of his immune system, was 21. A normal count is 500.
 Tsokotsa's voice was so soft he could barely be heard between coughs. ''I feel tired,'' he whispered. ''I don't want to play. When I wake up, I drink some medicine and after that I just do nothing. I sit all day.'' 
 ''I want to go back to school,'' he said. ''But only if I get well.'' 
 Seven days later, it appeared that he might yet have that opportunity. A week of treatment for his opportunistic ailments had the clinic's nurses marveling at his improved appearance. He began antiretroviral therapy on his second visit. 
 Dr. Thahane said children like Tsokotsa were a sign of progress, where there was none before.
 ''It is very difficult to see such sick children,'' she said. But, she added, ''I ask myself: what would happen to these kids if we weren't here?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tsokotsa Lepheane, 7, has AIDS, but more readily available medical care in Lesotho may give him longer life. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
In Maseru, Lesotho, a girl is tested for H.I.V. at a clinic built by the Baylor College of Medicine with $2 million from Bristol-Myers Squibb.
For outpatients at Quthing Hospital in southern Lesotho, the wait for the two doctors can be long. Pediatric AIDS treatment began only in July. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A6)Chart/Map: ''Children With H.I.V.''More than 2.8 million children in Africa are H.I.V.-positive, most of them in sub-Saharan Africa. Pediatric AIDS medications are becoming available in some areas, but half of all infected infants die without being treated.Less than one in 20 children needing treatment receive it, which is half the rate of adults.Map of Africa highlighting the estimated number of children (ages 0-14) living with H.I.V.SOUTH AFRICA: 230,000NIGERIA: 290,000CONGO: 110,000LESOTHO: 22,000ZIMBABWE: 120,000ETHIOPIA: 120,000TANZANIA: 140,000(Sources by UNAIDS
 World Health Organization)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (97%); CHILDREN (92%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); MALARIA (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Children and Youth; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Hospitals; Doctors; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%) Doctors Without Borders; Clinton Foundation; United Nations Children's Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria; Baylor College of Medicine; Bristol-Myers Squibb

PERSON: Sharon Lafraniere; Chewe (Dr) Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (95%); LESOTHO (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); NIGERIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%) Africa; Lesotho ; Maseru (Lesotho)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



151 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: The Call of the Wild Web

 BODY:
The proposed $67 billion megamerger between AT&T and BellSouth requires the scrutiny of regulators, in particular because it would continue the rapid reconsolidation of the old AT&T monopoly. The company has a strong argument for the deal, because the technological landscape is now completely different from the one in 1984, when Ma Bell was broken up -- as different as a rotary-dial phone tethered to a land line is from a cellphone with a wireless headset. 
 But this merger also raises important questions about the future of the Internet itself, and about how much giant companies like AT&T will be allowed to control access to it. The health and future of the economy depend on the Internet's remaining a level playing field. So AT&T should be prevented from violating the principle of Internet neutrality, which holds that consumers should be given equal access to Web sites. Regulators must demand it from AT&T as a condition of this deal, and Congress should enact a law ensuring that it applies across the board.
This isn't just about fairness. It's about protecting part of the commercial underpinnings that allow businesses in this country to flourish.
 Take for example the small but rapidly expanding market for phone service over the Internet. One of the pillars of the argument for letting AT&T and BellSouth merge is the strength of the Internet telephony companies, which compete with them in offering phone services. Yet once the bigger and better AT&T had approval from Washington, what incentive would it have to allow competition with its phone services in its newly expanded market? None.
 Internet service providers like AT&T are already hoping to create a tiered system, adjusting the speed of a connection to a Web site and its content according to how much the company pays. They want to be paid not only by their subscribers, but also by the companies supplying the Web site material, especially for large files like music and video clips. 
 Right now there's no data discrimination. That system has been a runaway success, but the urge to squeeze out a little more money has begun to endanger it. 
 The chief executive of AT&T, Edward Whitacre, told Business Week last year that his company (then called SBC Communications) wanted some way to charge major Internet concerns like Google and Vonage for the bandwidth they use. ''What they would like to do is use my pipes free, but I ain't going to let them do that because we have spent this capital and we have to have a return on it,'' he said.
 It's an easy step from toll collector to bouncer. While Internet services providers would probably not block access to the sites of competitors and of those who cannot afford to pay a premium, the providers could shunt them over to a tier of service so slow that it would make them uncompetitive. And since much of the country has only one or two options for high-speed Internet service to start with, that could make customers' choices for them. 
 The rapid consolidation in telecommunications is a source of serious concern for many consumer advocates. The new combined company would wield tremendous clout. The least we could require of it is that it uphold the basic tenets of the Internet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); BANDWIDTH (75%); DIVESTITURES (72%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (71%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Editorials; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Protection

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); CALL OF THE WILD INC (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: At&t Corp; Bellsouth Corp

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); VG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



152 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Big Companies Face Tough Hurdles in Moving Back to New Orleans

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, March 7 

 BODY:
When Frank A. Glaviano Sr. told friends that he believed his company, Shell Oil, would return to New Orleans despite the devastation done by Hurricane Katrina, many had a good laugh. Forget it, they said; you are moving to Houston. 
 After all, more than 100 Shell employees lost their homes when water covered much of the city and the surrounding suburbs. Mail delivery was still unreliable, air service remained thin, and only a small fraction of the previous hospital capacity was back. With Shell's American base in Houston, it seemed to make sense to move its exploration and production unit there from New Orleans.
But Shell, a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, returned last month to its marbled office building here at One Shell Square, after making an extraordinary investment to do so. It bought $32 million in residential properties in the area -- 120 houses and condominiums in all -- to lease to its employees. The company owned no residential property in the United States before Hurricane Katrina. 
 In considering whether to move back its 1,000 employees who worked in New Orleans before the storm, Shell had to monitor closely things like the federal government's commitment to rebuilding the levees and the city's progress in reviving its school system. 
 ''In the end, we decided to do the right thing by the city, the company and our employees,'' said Mr. Glaviano, the company vice president in charge of Shell's operations here. 
 Shell's unusual move demonstrates the difficulties that businesses of all sizes have encountered in moving back to New Orleans, and the dedication that is required to restart commerce in a city where basic necessities, like roofs, can be difficult to come by. To reopen their doors, many businesses have had to develop expertise in flood protection, transportation and medical care. 
 Chevron, one of Shell's competitors, which this week moved back the last of its 700 or so employees who worked in New Orleans before the storm, has added a paramedic to its staff and leases an ambulance so it does not have to rely on the city's 911 system in an emergency.
 Most companies, of course, do not have the resources of a company like Shell, which reported record profits of $25.3 billion in 2005. ''A lot of smaller companies, and even a lot of medium-sized ones, cannot afford the costs of getting up and back in business,'' said Don Hutchinson, the director of economic development for the city. 
 As a result, six months after Hurricane Katrina, at least four of every five businesses in New Orleans are still shuttered, Mr. Hutchinson said. About 60 percent of the downtown businesses have reopened, he said, but that statistic is deceptively high because many companies are moving back only part of their workforce.
 Another large energy company, Dominion Exploration and Production, a subsidiary of Dominion Resources, has announced that it will start moving employees back to New Orleans this month. But 140 of those positions -- 40 percent of its pre-hurricane workforce -- will remain permanently in Houston, according to David J. Auchter, a Dominion spokesman. 
 Entergy, the country's fifth-largest power company, has so far issued no public statement about the fate of its 1,500 employees who worked in New Orleans before the hurricane, except to say that whatever the company's decision, not all of them will be moving back.
 ''The question isn't whether New Orleans is going to take a huge hit in terms of job loss,'' said Jay Lapeyre, a local businessman who, as chairman of the Business Council of New Orleans, speaks on behalf of more than 50 of the area's largest corporations. ''The real question is where we'll have to rebuild from once we know where we've bottomed out.''
 Many factors went into Shell's decision to move back to New Orleans, including a workforce that was eager to return. Informal polling, said Rob Ryan, a Shell vice president, showed that more than 80 percent of employees preferred moving back to New Orleans over staying in Houston, including those who had temporarily relocated to Houston. A sense of corporate responsibility was also a factor. 
 New Orleans is a city where oil and gas exploration takes a back seat only to tourism and perhaps the port in terms of economic impact, and before Hurricane Katrina, Shell was the industry's largest employer in the city. Its tower -- a white marble monolith on a premier corner of the downtown business district -- is the second tallest in town. The Place St. Charles office building is the tallest. 
 From Shell's perspective, the city had a variety of factors working in its favor, including its culture and especially its geography. The easy access to the rich oil reserves in the waters off the Louisiana coast first drew exploration firms to New Orleans decades ago, and the wells could not easily be abandoned -- at least not by firms with the means and the will to stay. 
 ''A lot of the smaller oil and gas companies haven't committed to return,'' said Mr. Hutchinson, the city economic official. ''Basically, it's still wait and see with most of them.'' 
 That was Shell's attitude for weeks after the storm. Houston is the energy capital of the nation, and there were efficiencies in moving the company's operations to the home office. To many executives, there was no question that Houston represented the path of least resistance. 
 ''This was one of those decisions,'' Mr. Glaviano said, ''that had several executives feeling very strongly that we should relocate to Houston and several feeling very strongly in favor of moving back.'' 
 Shell was luckier than many of its rivals. The building Dominion called home before the storm, across the street from the Superdome, still sits abandoned, with roughly half of its windows covered by plywood. The basement and first floor of Chevron's office tower were flooded, which meant it was not ready for occupancy until the end of January. 
 The building Shell calls home, in contrast, sits atop a pedestal of white marble stairs. ''The building was fine,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''The key issue for us was whether we could bring 1,000 employees back.'' 
 To answer that question, Shell set up a virtual war room to monitor the city's progress and help its executives calculate the wisdom of returning. The company assigned about two dozen employees to judge the city's progress on a long list of factors, like repairing the pumping stations and providing parking in the central business district. 
 Other big companies did the same, including Chevron, which approached the task with military precision. It issued daily situation reports, devising a color-code system ''just like the federal government does to track the terrorist threat level,'' said Matthew Carmichael, governmental affairs director for Chevron in New Orleans. Early on, the company deemed almost every core function code red. 
 It was in late October that Mr. Glaviano and his colleagues decided to move back to New Orleans, yet it was not until January that a thorough audit of the state of the city prompted the company to conclude that ''the city was sufficiently back, from a safety and security perspective,'' Mr. Ryan said.
 Nonetheless, Shell employees are returning to find that working downtown remains a challenge. Flight capacity is less than half of what it was before the storm -- a crucial issue for a company with headquarters in another city. Mail service is still so unreliable that customers often pay the extra expense of overnight services to pay bills and send other important documents. The 120 or so Shell employees who lost homes no doubt appreciate that the company leases them housing at cost, but some of the units are a two-hour drive from downtown.
 Still, despite these and other inconveniences, most of the employees seem happy to be back home, Mr. Glaviano said. Certainly he is. ''Walking through the lobby,'' he said, ''it feels like an ordinary day to me.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the problems of Shell Oil and other companies in moving back to New Orleans referred incorrectly to Shell's office there, known as One Shell Square. It is the city's tallest building, not second to Place St. Charles. (One Shell Square is 697 feet and 51 stories tall; Place St. Charles is 645 feet and 53 stories.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: A facility made up of trailers in Robert, La., served as temporary office space for displaced Shell employees after Hurricane Katrina.
 Shell Oil bought properties near New Orleans to lease to employees, like this complex in Hammond, La. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); WEATHER (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (69%); PARAMEDICS (66%); TRENDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Relocation of Business; Relocation of Personnel; Housing; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Labor

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); SHELL OIL CO (58%); DOMINION EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Shell Oil Co; Chevron Corp

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%)

PERSON: Jay Lapeyre; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



153 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Warns of 'Consequences' for Iran on Nuclear Issue 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; David S. Cloud contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney declared Tuesday that the United Nations Security Council would ''impose meaningful consequences'' on Iran if it proceeded with uranium enrichment activities, and the Bush administration put an end to talk of compromise with Iran as floated by Russia. 
 But the administration's tough language pressing the Tehran government to return to a suspension of its enrichment program left unclear what the Security Council would do when it takes up Iran's case next week. The administration's goal is to win consent for a statement by the Security Council president calling on Iran to cooperate with the demand for a freeze on its nuclear activities. 
Despite Mr. Cheney's comments, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice ruled out an early push for sanctions.
 ''There is still time, of course, for the Iranians to react,'' Ms. Rice said after meeting with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, at the State Department. ''But we have been very clear that we did not think that as a first matter, we would try to move to sanctions in the first step of the Security Council.''
 The Russians have been pushing for a proposal to let Iran join with Russia in enriching uranium for nuclear fuel on Russian soil. But European diplomats said Monday that the Russians had also floated the idea of letting Iran continue a small amount of uranium enrichment in Iran as a face-saving compromise.
 Iran maintains that it has the right to enrich uranium for fuel for nuclear energy, but the United States and the three European nations involved in the negotiations charge that Iran has used its civilian energy program to hide a weapons program. Western experts say even small-scale, experimental enrichment poses a threat.
 Russia's proposal drew American criticism the moment it came up in Vienna, home of the International Atomic Energy Agency, on Monday. Ms. Rice telephoned Mohamed ElBaradei, the agency's director, who had disclosed that a possible compromise was in the offing, telling him that the United States was opposed to it, various officials said.
 On Tuesday, the Russian proposal all but disappeared, apparently under American and European pressure. Indeed, Foreign Minister Lavrov said Tuesday, as Ms. Rice nodded in agreement, that no such proposal ever existed. 
 ''There is no compromise new Russian proposal,'' he said. The proposal for the joint Iranian-Russian enrichment on Russian soil ''is not a new one,'' he added. ''It was welcomed by all participants of the process, and there is no compromise proposal, and there could not be any compromise proposal.''
 After Mr. Lavrov's comments, three Western diplomats, asking not to be identified by country because their governments did not want to appear to criticize Russia, said they thought that either Mr. Lavrov was pulling back a trial balloon, or the Russians who had floated the compromise in Vienna did so without authorization.
 Some said that in their experience, lower-level leaders of the Russian Foreign Ministry were very eager to avoid a confrontation with Iran and to exploit Iran's impasse with the West, while Mr. Lavrov and the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, were more concerned about Iran's nuclear ambitions.
 Mr. Cheney, speaking to an overflow crowd of nearly 5,000 applauding guests at a meeting of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, used blunt language that seemed to hint of military action or possibly the overthrow of the government in Tehran, though he mentioned neither option explicitly.
 ''For our part, the United States is keeping all options on the table in addressing the irresponsible conduct of the regime,'' he said of Iran. ''And we join other nations in sending that regime a clear message: We will not allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon.''
 He also said ''America supports as well the democratic aspirations of the people of Iran'' and the removal of what he called its current ''fanatical regime.''
 Administration officials said Mr. Cheney, one of the strongest advocates of the war to overthrow Saddam Hussein in Iraq, had more recently promoted a drive to bring Iranian scholars and students to America, blanket the country with radio and television broadcasts and support Iranian political dissidents.
 That $85 million State Department program is being overseen by Elizabeth Cheney, a principal deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs, who is also the vice president's daughter. 
 Meanwhile, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said Tuesday at a Pentagon news conference that Iran had recently been infiltrating paramilitary personnel into Iraq ''to do things that are harmful.'' 
 He described the Iranian personnel as members of the Al Quds Force of the Revolutionary Guards, which he said conducts terrorist operations. But intelligence officials say evidence of involvement by Iran's paramilitary in the violence in Iraq is not clear.
 The board of the International Atomic Energy Agency has been meeting in Vienna this week to discuss the issue of Iran. Dr. ElBaradei has, on one hand, assailed Iran for concealing its nuclear activities and said he could not certify that it was not pursuing a weapons program.
 On the other hand, he has expressed hope for a compromise, fearing that Tehran will walk away entirely from cooperating with the agency.
 United Nations diplomats say they expect the Council to support a statement by its president calling on Iran to cooperate with the West, rather than passing a formal resolution. Such a statement would not require a vote but would be backed implicitly by all 15 members of the Council.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in Washington yesterday. (Photo by Yuri Gripas/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (91%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (58%) Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Sergey V (Min) Lavrov; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Iran; Russia; Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



154 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan's Book Deal Is Said to Be Among the Richest 

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Louis Uchitelle contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, has agreed to sell his memoir for an advance of more than $8.5 million, according to people involved in the negotiations, making a deal that appears to give him the second-largest advance ever paid for a nonfiction book.
 The book is scheduled to be published in the fall of 2007 by Penguin Press, an imprint of the Penguin Group USA, which is part of Pearson. Ann Godoff, the president and publisher of Penguin Press, said yesterday that the book would present Mr. Greenspan's view of the world during his tumultuous 18-year tenure at the Federal Reserve and his vision for the future. 
Mr. Greenspan, who turned 80 this week, served as Fed chairman from shortly before the October 1987 stock market crash through the end of January. He said yesterday that he had already begun work on the book, which he expects to finish by the end of the year. 
 ''Until the book is significantly complete, I do not plan to engage in significant consulting,'' he said. ''I plan to speak periodically until the book is much closer to completion.'' Though a ghostwriter will collaborate with him, Mr. Greenspan said, ''I plan to do the first draft and the last draft.'' 
 Given that Mr. Greenspan's notoriously opaque statements as Federal Reserve chairman sometimes confused even the closest observers of monetary policy, it remains to be seen whether he can write a book that appeals to a large general-interest audience. 
 He will need to do so, however, to justify the advance that Penguin offered, outbidding several other large publishers, including HarperCollins and Random House. Assuming a cover price of about $30, the publisher -- which receives about half the price of each book sold -- would have to sell nearly 600,000 copies of the book to recover the cost of the advance, and Mr. Greenspan would not receive any additional royalties until the book sells nearly 1.9 million copies. 
 Penguin bought the world rights to the book, meaning that it could recoup some of its costs by selling the right to publish translated editions of the book in foreign countries.
 Ms. Godoff said she was confident that Mr. Greenspan's book would appeal to an audience far beyond those in the financial world. 
 ''I think his life and his career are different from any business luminary you can mention,'' Ms. Godoff said. ''His experience over the last 50 years in international relations, his knowledge of the way the world works in general, and his relationships with everybody important in the world cannot be matched by anyone.''
 Mr. Greenspan's advance ranks second only to the more than $10 million paid to former President Bill Clinton for his memoir, ''My Life,'' which was published in June 2004. Pope John Paul II received an advance of $8.5 million in 1994 for his book, ''Crossing the Threshold of Hope,'' and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton received an $8 million advance for her memoir, ''Living History,'' published in 2003.
 The New York Post disclosed the Greenspan book deal on Tuesday.
 Ms. Godoff and Mr. Greenspan declined to comment on the amount of his advance. Her three-year-old imprint has published such recent nonfiction best sellers as ''Ghost Soldiers'' by Steve Coll, which won the Pulitzer prize for general nonfiction last year; ''Alexander Hamilton'' by Ron Chernow and ''The City of Falling Angels'' by John Berendt. 
 In her long publishing career, Ms. Godoff has won a reputation for paying steep advances to authors and thereby making risky bets that only sometimes paid off. In January 2003, she was fired as the president of the Random House Trade Group, for failing to meet profit targets.
 Robert B. Barnett, the lawyer who represented Mr. Greenspan in the book negotiations, also declined to comment on the amount of the advance. He said Mr. Greenspan was talking with several potential ghostwriters but had not settled on one yet.
 The leading candidate for that position, David Wessel, the deputy Washington bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal, said last month that he had talked with Mr. Greenspan about helping him with the book. ''While this has been under discussion,'' Mr. Wessel said, ''I've recused myself from editing stories about Greenspan in The Journal.''
 Mr. Greenspan, in the 10-page proposal for the book that his representatives circulated among publishing houses, said that he would write about the presidents and other politicians he has dealt with and would discuss a range of issues, from China's effect on the global economy to how 9/11 affected his understanding of economic trends.
 ''I do not intend to dwell on personality aberrations, except as they affect policy decision-making -- which, of course, always involves personalities,'' he wrote, according to a copy of the proposal obtained by DealBook, a Web log published by nytimes.com. ''I will also describe what it's like to be a prop at a Congressional hearing, which is too often the role of witnesses.''
 Mr. Barnett said that readers would be surprised at how approachable Mr. Greenspan is in the book. ''The person that we watched testifying and speaking 'Fed-speak' is not Alan Greenspan,'' Mr. Barnett said. ''Alan Greenspan is articulate, insightful and also funny. The proposal that he circulated reflected that, and the publishers he met with saw that. This book will be a highly readable piece of work.'' 
 Susan Petersen Kennedy, the president of the Penguin Group USA, echoed that sentiment. ''What I'm looking for here,'' she said, ''is a book that will sell for the next 40 years.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 10, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about Alan Greenspan's book contract with Penguin Press misstated the title of another book published by the same imprint. It is ''Ghost Wars,'' by Steve Coll, not ''Ghost Soldiers.''
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about Alan Greenspan's book contract with Penguin Press misstated the title of another book published by the same imprint. It is ''Ghost Wars,'' by Steve Coll, not ''Ghost Soldiers.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the author, is expected to get more than $8.5 million. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Printing Money''Alan Greenspan's advance for his memoirs is one of the largest paid to a nonfiction author in recent years. Here is how it stacks up.Bill ClintonDEAL STRUCK: 2001PUBLISHER: Alfred A. KnopfTITLE: My LifeREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: $10.0Alan GreenspanDEAL STRUCK: 2006PUBLISHER: PenguinTITLE: UntitledREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 8.5+Pope John Paul IIDEAL STRUCK: 1994PUBLISHER: Alfred A. KnopfTITLE: Crossing the Threshold of HopeREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 8.5Ronald ReaganDEAL STRUCK: 1989PUBLISHER: Simon & SchusterTITLE: An American LifeREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 8.5Hillary ClintonDEAL STRUCK: 2000PUBLISHER: Simon & SchusterTITLE: Living HistoryREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 8.0John F. Welch Jr.DEAL STRUCK: 2000PUBLISHER: Warner BooksTITLE: Straight From the GutREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 7.1Robert E. RubinDEAL STRUCK: 2000PUBLISHER: Random HouseTITLE: In an Uncertain WorldREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 3.3Rudolph GiulianiDEAL STRUCK: 2001PUBLISHER: Miramax BooksTITLE: LeadershipREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 3.0Nancy ReaganDEAL STRUCK: 1989PUBLISHER: Random HouseTITLE: My TurnREPORTED AMOUNT, MILLIONS: 2.0(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); WRITERS (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (54%) United States Economy; Biographical Information; Books and Literature; Book Trade

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Penguin Press

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (57%); JACK WELCH (51%) Alan Greenspan; Ann Godoff; Edward Wyatt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



155 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Letting India in the Club?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
India is a country that had me at hello. Call me biased, but I have a soft spot for countries of one billion people, speaking a hundred different languages and practicing a variety of religions, whose people hold regular free and fair elections and, despite massive poverty, still produce generations of doctors and engineers who help to make the world a more productive and peaceful place. Sure, as today's bombings in India illustrate, it has its problems -- but it is not Iraq. It is a beacon of tolerance and stability.
 So I applaud President Bush's desire to form a deeper partnership with India. There is only one thing I would not do for that cause: endorse -- in its current form -- the nuclear arms deal that the Bush team just cut with New Delhi. I am all for finding a creative way to bring India into the world's nuclear family. India deserves to be treated differently than Iran. But we can't do it in a way that could melt down the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and foster a nuclear arms race in South Asia. 
What's the problem? India has never signed the N.P.T., which is the international legal framework that limited the world's nuclear club to the U.S., China, Russia, Britain and France. For decades, U.S. policy has been very consistent: we do not sell civilian nuclear technology to any country that has not signed the N.P.T. And since that included India, India could never buy reactors, even for its civilian power needs, from America.
 But with India eager to buy U.S. nuclear technology, and the U.S. eager to build India into an economic and geostrategic counterweight to China, the Bush team wanted -- rightly -- to find a way to get India out of the corner it put itself in when it first set off a nuclear blast in 1974. Under the Bush-India deal, India would designate 14 of its 22 nuclear power reactors as ''civilian,'' to be put under international safeguards, leaving the other 8 free from inspections and able to produce as much bomb-grade plutonium as India wanted. In return, U.S. companies would be able to sell India civilian-use nuclear reactors and technology.
 This is a troubling deal for two reasons. First, it could only undermine the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Yes, I know, the Bush team doesn't believe in treaties and says the treaty isn't restraining the rogues anyway. But this treaty is the legal basis by which we have been able to build coalitions against the nuclear rogues to restrain them from spreading W.M.D. One of the key legal bases for isolating Saddam Hussein was that he'd violated the N.P.T., which Iraq had signed. The legal basis by which we are building a coalition against Iran's going nuclear is the N.P.T. Under the N.P.T., we board ships suspected of carrying W.M.D. Japan, Brazil and Argentina all chose to forgo nuclear weapons to gain access to foreign nuclear technology by abiding by the N.P.T. What are they going to think if India gets a free pass?
 What should we have done? Bob Einhorn, who has worked on nonproliferation for every administration since Nixon's, has the right idea: Tell India that it can have this deal -- provided it does something hard that would clearly reinforce the global nonproliferation regime. And that would be halting all production of weapons-grade material, thereby capping India's stockpile of nuclear bomb ingredients where it is. That could be a lever to get Pakistan to do the same. The fewer bomb-making materials around, the less likely it is for any to fall into the hands of terrorists.
 ''The Bush administration proposed such a production cutoff in negotiations, but dropped the idea when India balked,'' Mr. Einhorn said. ''India says it is willing to adopt the same responsibilities and practices as the other nuclear powers. It so happens that the five original nuclear powers -- U.S., U.K., France, Russia and China -- have all stopped producing fissile material for weapons. If we are going to bring India into the club, it should do so as well.'' 
 India says it needs to keep producing nuclear material to have a more credible deterrent. I can't judge that. All I know is that we should not go ahead with this deal until India is ready to halt its production of weapons-grade material.
 ''The problem the Bush administration faces in selling the nuclear deal is not, as the president has said, that 'some people just don't want to change' or that they are focused on outdated concerns,'' Mr. Einhorn argued. ''People are willing to change. They want to support the president's India initiative, even modify longstanding policies. But they want to do it in a way that also serves an objective that is hardly outdated: preventing nuclear proliferation.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); BOMBINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); ARMS TRADE (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); ARMS RACE (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); RELIGION (72%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (69%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush; Robert J Einhorn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (78%); SOUTHERN ASIA (59%) India; Pakistan; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



156 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Federal Grants of $27 Million Are Set to Aid Cultural Activity Downtown 

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The New Museum of Contemporary Art, the Flea Theater and the National Museum of the American Indian are among 63 arts and civic organizations that are to benefit from more than $27 million in grants being announced today by state and city officials.
 The federal grants, ranging from $20,000 to $2 million, will be funneled through the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation with the goal of reviving cultural activity downtown. The biggest chunk goes to the New Museum, which is building a new $60 million home on the Bowery.
''You can imagine what this means,'' said Lisa Phillips, director of the museum. ''We're creating a destination and a landmark downtown and we're very happy that they're behind us.''
 Last spring, the development corporation had said that $45 million in such grants would go to cultural groups that are not part of the master plan for rebuilding at the former World Trade Center site. Stefan Pryor, president of the development corporation, explained that $10 million was subsequently allotted to the Drawing Center, which was ejected from the ground zero plan and hopes to build a new home at the Fulton Fish Market. And several groups that applied for aid but have not yet qualified could be eligible for it later, he added. 
 ''Some of the grants we're making are planning grants,'' said John C. Whitehead, chairman of the development corporation. ''We need some money for those plans if any of them turn out to be worthy of support.'' 
 The grants are to be announced by Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at an afternoon news conference at the National Museum of the American Indian.
 Some downtown arts groups have repeatedly expressed frustration over the time it has taken for the development corporation to make good on its 2002 pledge to help cultural institutions downtown. Yesterday, their leaders just sounded grateful.
 ''It's a real shot in the arm,'' said Verona Middleton-Jeter, the executive director of the Henry Street Settlement, a social services and arts group. Although the settlement had requested more than $3 million to update two of its three theater spaces, Ms. Middleton-Jeter said she was satisfied with the $1 million it ultimately received.
 The settlement, founded in 1893, provides performance and arts education programs for more than 40,000 people each year at its Abrons Arts Center on Grand Street. Ms. Middleton-Jeter said the group was planning stronger marketing efforts ''to move our performances to a larger audience.''
 The Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, which represents downtown arts groups, received $1.5 million for a $4.5 million new home on Maiden Lane. Its president, Tom Healy, called the grants a sign of progress. The council had been highly critical of the development corporation in recent months. ''These are tax dollars that have gone to this,'' Mr. Healy said of the grants. ''It's not about ground zero. It's about how the arts are integrated into all the neighborhoods of downtown.''
 To be sure, the money is a rare piece of good news for a cultural rebuilding effort that has been dogged by controversy. The master plan for ground zero had called for the Drawing Center and a new International Freedom Center to share a new museum building, but the two groups were forced out after relatives of some 9/11 victims said their programming would not strike the right patriotic note. 
 Current plans call for that building to house a 9/11 museum; Alice M. Greenwald, an associate director for museum programs at the United States Holocaust Museum in Washington, was chosen last month as its director.
 A performing arts center designed by Frank Gehry is still planned for the site, to be shared by the Joyce Theater, which presents dance, and the Signature Theater, an Off Broadway company.
 The development corporation estimated that the $27 million would help recipients raise $410 million, Mr. Pryor said. ''These grants, taken together, will make a substantial contribution toward the revitalization of Lower Manhattan's arts and cultural community,'' he said. 
 The Flea Theater on White Street, which received $500,000, will use its grant to help expand up one floor, improving its rehearsal space, creating an alternate stage and moving its offices out of a subbasement. For one recent production that featured 18 actors -- Elizabeth Swados's musical ''Jabu'' -- all 150 costume changes had to be made in the lobby. 
 The theater, founded in 1996, is in the midst of a $5.5 million capital campaign and is one of the few downtown arts institutions that weathered the repercussions of the 2001 terrorist attacks fairly well. ''We came back stronger,'' said Carol Ostrow, the producing director. ''We became a safe harbor in a neighborhood that was reckoning with the damage of 9/11.''
 Other companies were harder hit, like Three-Legged Dog, a media and theater group on West Broadway that is to receive $1.5 million from the development corporation. The group had to cut its staff from 27 to 2, suspended salaries for nine months and halted production for a year and a half. The group has since raised $3 million toward a $4.6 million arts complex, now under construction at 80 Greenwich Street. 
 ''It really changes our reality,'' Kevin Cunningham, the company's executive artistic director, said of the gift. ''It's a huge relief for us. That level of support can stabilize us.''
 The H. T. Chen Dance Company, which supports Asian-American and contemporary dance, temporarily closed its school, had no telephone service for eight weeks and had only seven people attend its reopening performance in October 2001. The company, on Mulberry Street, plans to use its $50,000 grant to improve its lighting and audiovisual equipment. 
 The National Museum of the American Indian's New York branch -- known as the George Gustav Heye Center -- received a $1.5 million grant toward a $5 million improvement of its home, the Alexander Hamilton United States Custom House. Plans call for adding 6,000 square feet to the 15,000-square-foot museum, including a new education pavilion for public programs and performances.
 ''We're absolutely thrilled with the recognition,'' said John Haworth, director of the Heye Center. ''It goes a long way to help us.''
 Some of the recipients were groups outside the neighborhood that proposed projects for downtown. The New York City Opera, for example, which had originally sought a home at ground zero, received $50,000 for an education program to introduce students to opera at the High School of Economics and Finance on Trinity Place.
 The recipients were selected by a cultural advisory panel that included Kate D. Levin, the city's commissioner of cultural affairs; Richard J. Schwartz, chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts; and other cultural leaders.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Helping Hand''The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation will distribute more than $27 million in cultural grants to 63 arts and civic organizations. Here are a few examples.New Museum of Contemporary Art: ($2 million)Lower East Side Tenement Museum: ($1 million)Downtown Community Television Center: ($800,000)Flea Theater: ($500,000)Church Street School for Music and Art: ($400,000)Dance New Amsterdam: ($500,000)Henry Street Settlement: ( $1 million)National Museum of the American Indian, George Gustav Heye Center: ($1.5 million)Map of Manhattan highlighting museums. (pg. E2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); GRANTS & GIFTS (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; Culture; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (91%) Lower Manhattan Development Corp

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Robin Pogrebin; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



157 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Have Rennet, Will Travel

BYLINE: By KARA NEWMAN

 BODY:
AN increasing number of dairy farmers are interested in producing cheese, yogurt and other supplemental products to help pad incomes and raise their profiles. But not many have the time or money to invest in learning to process milk into cheese. 
 For dairy farmers in Sullivan County, in New York, help may come knocking on the door: a facility can now come to them in the form of the CheeseMobile, a trailer with a New York State approved custom-built dairy plant inside. 
From the outside, it looks like a big tin box propped up on stilts. Inside, the 12-foot-by-36-foot unit has a processing facility in the front -- complete with boiler, air handler, sinks and coolers -- and a cheese cave in the back, comprising all the necessary equipment to make, package and age cheese. 
 The project was the brainchild of Rick Bishop, the agricultural economic developer with the Sullivan County Division of Planning. He is also a farmer (Mountain Sweet Berry Farm in Roscoe, N.Y.) who is known as ''the potato guy'' at the Union Square Greenmarket. Because of a recent decrease in milk prices, Mr. Bishop said, local dairy farmers have been flocking to cheesemaking workshops in a bid to find ways to stretch profits. However, many have been frustrated by the maze of regulations and financing needed to produce and market cheese. 
 Mr. Bishop remembers the reaction of one farmer, Evelyn Weissmann, in particular.
 ''She yelled at me,'' he said. ''She said, 'You find the money, and figure out the regulations and equipment. If you get the unit onto my farm, I'll make cheese.' '' 
 So in June 2002, Mr. Bishop drafted a proposal for a federally sponsored Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education grant and organized a coalition of farmers to support the project. He also lined up two cheesemakers, Peter Dixon and Katherine Biss, to teach production fundamentals free of charge, and Colin Alevras, the chef and an owner of the Tasting Room in Manhattan, to discuss emerging local cheese markets. Although Mr. Bishop did not realize it at the time, a parallel project was under way in the Midwest cheese belt, resulting in Cheese on Wheels (with the whimsically appropriate acronym C.O.W.), another mobile cheesemaking unit. 
 The timing couldn't have been better, since the demand for local farmstead cheeses is growing. While Vermont farmstead cheeses enjoy considerable shelf space at high-end places like Murray's Cheese and the restaurant Artisanal in Manhattan, many small New York-area farms are still working to develop and market their products. 
 Consider Tonjes Farm Dairy in Callicoon, in western Sullivan County. Tonjes was the first farm to use the CheeseMobile to transform the milk produced by its Holstein cows into cheese, yogurt and buttermilk. 
 ''It's like an incubator,'' said Mary Tonjes, who runs the farm with her husband, Tim Tonjes. ''It helped us sort out questions. Can we do this? Do we want to do this? Can we make nice cheese?'' 
 It also helped sort out more practical questions, Mr. Tonjes added, such as how much milk is required and how to gauge demand for aged cheeses versus fresh. ''You begin to understand where the holes are in the process and what people want,'' he said.
 The Tonjes family has had the CheeseMobile on its farm for a little more than two years, but Mr. Bishop said he expects future stays to be shorter now that the planning department has a better sense of what needs to be done.
 Among the products the Tonjeses now sell at the Union Square Greenmarket are three types of aged raw-milk cheese: Cow Hill, a tomme-style cheese with a creamy, earthy, almost mushroomlike taste; Caerphilly, a Welsh-style farmhouse cheese with a tangy edge; and Rambler, a drier, sharp, Cheddarlike cheese. In addition, the farm makes pasteurized fresh milk cheeses (ricotta, mozzarella and a creamy, spreadable fromage blanc), buttermilk and yogurt. All are made in the CheeseMobile -- at least for the moment. 
 Now, again thanks to a federal grant, the Tonjeses are in the process of building a permanent concrete cheese cave that will hold a total of 30,000 pounds of cheese. 
 As for the CheeseMobile, the plan is to roll it about seven miles down the road in June, to Mrs. Weissmann's 50-cow dairy farm in Callicoon Center.


GRAPHIC: Photos: To MARKET -- Tim Tonjes was the first farmer to use the CheeseMobile to turn the milk at his farm in Sullivan County into cheese. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); CHEESE MFG (90%); CHEESE (89%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); MILK (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FOOD PRICES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%) Dairy Products; Cheese

PERSON: Kara Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; Sullivan County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



158 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Fell in Last Quarter of 2005 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 7 

 BODY:
The productivity of American workers declined in the final three months of 2005, the first drop in more than four years, while wage pressures accelerated, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. 
 Productivity dipped at an annual rate of 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter, while wages rose at a 3.3 percent pace, the fastest gain in a year, according to the report.
 Both figures were slightly revised from original estimates a month ago that had productivity falling at a 0.6 percent rate and wage costs rising at a 3.5 percent rate in the quarter.
 The 0.5 percent drop in productivity -- the amount of output per hour of work -- was the first quarterly decline since a 0.6 percent fall in the first quarter of 2001, when the country slipped into a recession. 
 Productivity increased by 2.9 percent in 2005 after an increase of 3.4 percent in 2004. It was the slowest annual increase since a 2.4 percent rise in 2001.
 Wage increases, as measured by unit labor costs, rose by 2.6 percent in 2005, more than double the 1.1 percent increase for 2004. It was the fastest rise in labor costs since a 4.2 percent jump in 2000.
 In a separate report on Tuesday, the Federal Reserve said that consumer credit grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in January, up from a 1.9 percent rate of increase in December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (94%); STATISTICS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); CONSUMER CREDIT (72%) Labor; Productivity; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



159 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Symposium Guest's Word Stirs Controversy at Yale 

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, March 7 

 BODY:
The editors of the Yale Law Journal knew they were courting controversy when they invited scholars to the campus for a symposium on executive power. 
 One of the speakers will be John Yoo, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who helped write a hotly debated memorandum on torture while he worked in the Justice Department. Other speakers will grapple with the limits of executive power in wartime, a topic that generates no shortage of opinions.
But when a controversy over the symposium, scheduled from March 24 to 26 in New Haven, erupted, it had nothing to do with executive power or Mr. Yoo. Instead, it involved a derogatory word about blacks posted online in 2002 by one of the symposium speakers and a contributor to the journal, Kiwi Camara, when he was a student at Harvard Law School. 
 That incident created an uproar among professors and students at Harvard. And a debate about Mr. Camara's comments, and about racism and academic freedom, has consumed students and professors at Yale Law School for the past four months. 
 On Monday night, Harold Hongju Koh, the law school dean, held a forum on ''Racist Speech: Can We Separate the Speech From the Speaker?'' Mr. Koh's office would not allow outsiders into the meeting, which attracted more than 100 people. ''I hope we can emerge from this discussion united as a community, not just in our condemnation of racist speech, but in our efforts to understand the lessons of this incident and to work together toward a constructive response,'' Mr. Koh wrote in a letter to Yale law students. 
 As she left the meeting, Brittan Heller, a first-year law student, said, ''I think we all felt it was a beginning, not the end of discussion.'' She said she objected to the decision to invite Mr. Camara to the symposium, but not to the publication of his article, which is about corporate and constitutional law and not about race. 
 Matthew Brewer, a co-chairman of the Black Law Students Association at Yale, wrote in an e-mail message that the organization was disappointed about the decision to invite Mr. Camara to the symposium.
 ''In this case, the Journal did not adequately include the perspectives of black law students during the decision-making process,'' he wrote.
 Mr. Camara, 21, holds a research fellowship on law and economics at Stanford Law School. He was born in the Philippines, grew up in Cleveland and Hawaii, and received an undergraduate degree from Hawaii Pacific University. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 2004 at 19.
 In 2002, Mr. Camara posted notes from his first-year Harvard property law class online, a common practice. The notes referred to blacks in shorthand as ''nigs.'' Another student complained about the posting, and the notes were taken down, but the issue still attracted attention on campus and in The Boston Globe.
 Mr. Camara said he had ''no good explanation'' for why he used the derogatory language in his notes. ''I'm not going to try to justify it,'' he said. ''It's quite right it should be condemned.''
 He said he was not a racist and avoids using derogatory statements about black people in public and in private. He also expressed concern about the level of racism among law students and said he hoped the controversy can bring people of different races together.
 Mr. Camara apologized for the posting, but the incident has dogged him, he said in a telephone interview on Monday. He said he had begun telling potential employers about the comments during his interviews, because he realized they would eventually come out and become a ''public relations black eye.''
 At Yale, the journal editors found out about the posting when they received an anonymous e-mail message last October, after Mr. Camara had been invited to the symposium. Since then, e-mail messages have been exchanged between journal editors, and a law student set up a blog as a forum for campus debate. 
 A petition urging the journal to reconsider its invitation to Mr. Camara has also been circulated.
 Peter Schuck, a law school professor who teaches torts and immigration law, was at Monday's meeting.
 ''I think minority students that spoke almost all expressed feelings of having been wounded and attacked in some group sense,'' he said afterward.
 Some say the Harvard incident called into question Mr. Camara's character. Curtis Mahoney, the editor in chief of the law journal, said Mr. Camara was ''under an obligation to show more public contrition'' at the time of the incident. 
 Nonetheless, Mr. Mahoney, along with other members of the symposium board and top journal editors, decided to continue their plans to publish Mr. Camara's paper, which is scheduled to be in the law journal next year. They also decided, after conferring with a diverse group of students and professors, not to rescind the invitation for Mr. Camara to speak at the symposium, he said.
 Mr. Mahoney called Mr. Camara's comments ''reprehensible,'' but said he thought the journal should evaluate articles on the strength of their arguments and not the character of their authors. He said there was no consistent way for the journal to impose a character test.
 ''Pulling pieces is not a realistic option for us, given the policy it would commit us to,'' Mr. Mahoney said.
 At the symposium, plans have been made for protests, which Mr. Camara said he had ''expected for a while.''
 Still, Mr. Camara said he was happy that the comments had sparked a debate at Yale and had led to what he called ''a teaching moment.''
 ''That's a more productive thing to do than burning me in effigy,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PROPERTY LAW (78%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (56%) Colleges and Universities; Blacks; Discrimination

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%) Yale University

PERSON: Avi Salzman; Kiwi Camara

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) HAWAII, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



160 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Owners Mull Proposal Made by Players Union

BYLINE: By CLIFTON BROWN

DATELINE: GRAPEVINE, Tex., March 7 

 BODY:
With N.F.L. owners spending about eight hours huddled in a hotel ballroom Tuesday, debating whether to accept or reject the latest offer from the players union, an air of uncertainty continued to hang over the league.
 No vote was taken Tuesday, and owners were leery about predicting the outcome of their discussions. The meeting is scheduled to end Wednesday with a vote on the union's proposal to extend the league's collective-bargaining agreement for six years. For a new labor agreement to be approved, 24 of the 32 owners must vote for it. The N.F.L.'s free-agency period, already pushed back twice, could begin by Thursday.
''My gut is that we can come up with something here that is good for the league, and that we can go on with,'' Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, said Tuesday before entering the meeting. ''But it's going to be up in the air, and is up in the air, at this time. I expect a pretty drawn-out meeting.'' 
 Jones's expectations seemed to be met as the team owners and Commissioner Paul Tagliabue discussed the pros and cons of accepting the union's proposal. During an afternoon break, Tom Benson, the owner of the New Orleans Saints, walked past a group of reporters and said: ''It's going to be a long day. Y'all better keep comfortable.''
 Many owners remained uncomfortable with the union's proposal, which called for the players to receive 59.5 percent of the total revenue over the life of the deal. The offer also called for adjustments to the salary cap, depending on whether teams collectively spent more or less than the cap during a particular season.
 ''There's nothing good about it,'' Jones said of the proposal. ''It's going to call on us in this meeting to really have to adjust.
 ''This cuts real deep. To make this work in the league, we're going to have to run some tighter ships in managing our costs. I'm not pointing a finger that anybody has not been prudent. But it's going to cause you to re-examine every aspect of your organization as a team. This far exceeds anything we've ever done with players, relative to revenue streams.''
 Revenue sharing remained a contentious point among the owners. High-revenue teams like the Redskins, the Patriots and the Eagles have been reluctant to share their lucrative local revenue streams. Without a compromise among owners on revenue sharing, a vote to approve the players' proposal was unlikely.
 With so much to resolve, owners needed time for discussion on Wednesday.
 ''The first two hours of the meeting were spent on the union's proposal, an explanation of it,'' Joe Browne, an N.F.L. spokesman, said. ''Additional time was spent, subsequent to that, on some general revenue-sharing discussion, most of it directed by the commissioner. They're going to resume early tomorrow morning.''
 When the start of the free-agency period was postponed on Sunday, the owners agreed to let the union know by Wednesday afternoon if its proposal had been accepted. If the owners vote to reject the plan, free agency will begin Thursday. If the owners vote to accept, free agency will begin Friday. The extra day would give the league time to distribute guidelines for the new contract to its teams.
 Gene Upshaw, the executive director of the players union, has said that if the proposal is rejected, he does not foresee any negotiations before the 2007 season, the final season of the current agreement, and a season that would be played without a salary cap if a new labor deal was not in place.
 ''My understanding is the union is over in Hawaii for a player-rep meeting, and Gene is meeting with his executive committee at some point Wednesday night,'' Browne said. ''He needs to know what the owners' decision is.''
 Despite his reservations about the players' proposal, Jones remained guardedly optimistic. Tuesday's meeting lasted far longer than the owners' meeting in New York last week, when they took less than an hour to reject a proposal from the union.
 ''We have an obligation here to everybody, pointedly to our fans, to see if we can make things work,'' Jones said. ''Nobody really cares if I'm happy or not. I know that. But that's all right. We've got to get something done that's in the best interest of the economics of the N.F.L.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (88%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%) Football; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); DALLAS COWBOYS (56%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (54%)

PERSON: Clifton Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



161 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Texas Instruments Forecast

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell for a fourth day yesterday after Texas Instruments said first-quarter sales would fall short of its highest forecast and a government report signaled inflation may accelerate. 
 ''Texas Instruments is a bellwether,'' said John Wilson, co-director of equity strategy at Morgan Keegan & Company. The estimate, he said, ''reflects the economic slowdown we expect to see.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose amid a pullback of emerging-market stocks and shares of smaller companies. The Dow industrials rose 22.10 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,980.69. 
 The S.& P. 500 declined 2.38 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,275.88. The Nasdaq composite index, which gets 43 percent of its value from technology shares, slid 17.65 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,268.38. 
 Texas Instruments slumped $1.07, to $31.26. The company said first-quarter sales would be $3.22 billion to $3.35 billion, compared with an earlier forecast of as much as $3.38 billion. The company's projection comes less than a week after Intel cut its revenue estimate. Shares of Intel declined 24 cents, to $20.06. 
 Nineteen of 20 chip-related stocks in the S.& P. 500 fell. National Semiconductor, a maker of chips used to increase the battery life of cellphones, lost $1.07, to $28. 
 Broadcom, which produces chips for consumer products, slid $2.03, to $45.85. 
 ''There's not a broad advance in the business prospects for companies across the technology area,'' said Jeff Layman, a portfolio manager at BKD Wealth Advisors. ''That's been symptomatic of the whole technology area here in the last couple of months.'' 
 Telecommunications stocks slumped 1.6 percent for the steepest loss among 10 industry groups as investors doubted that more mergers will follow AT&T's bid for BellSouth.
 Stocks slid after the Labor Department's report showed productivity fell for the first time since 2001 and labor costs rose the most in a year. The figures suggested the Federal Reserve might continue to raise interest rates. 
 ''The Fed is still in play,'' Joseph Besecker, president of Emerald Asset Management in San Francisco, said. ''The market is really focusing still on interest rates.'' 
 General Motors gained on a proposal to reduce pension costs for salaried workers. Shares of G.M. rose 48 cents, to $20.29. The company said it would freeze the defined-benefit pension plans for its 36,000 salaried workers in the United States to save $420 million before taxes next year and reduce its year-end 2006 pension liability by $1.6 billion. 
 Energy shares fell after the April contract for crude oil declined 1.3 percent, to $61.58 a barrel, on speculation that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will leave production targets unchanged at a meeting today. 
 A gauge of energy stocks in the S.& P. 500 slumped 1.2 percent. ConocoPhillips declined $1.10, to $59.48. 
 Myogen, which develops drugs for hypertension and other cardiovascular diseases, lost $6.08, to $35.23. The company said it would receive up to $100 million from GlaxoSmithKline as the drug makers work on two medicines that treat a lung condition. Some investors may be disappointed by the terms of the deal, said Louis Lemos, an analyst at Variant Research.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to a price of 98 8/32.
 The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.72 percent from 4.75 percent on Monday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auctions of six-day cash management bills and four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.659
High Rate: 4.380
Coupon Yield: 4.456
Low Rate: 4.330
Median Rate: 4.360
Total applied for: $43,393,048
Accepted: $20,178,713
Noncompetitive: $322,929

The four-week bills mature April 06, 2006.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.927
Investment Rate: 4.444
High Rate: 4.380
Low Rate: 4.350
Median Rate: 4.370
Total applied for: $30,051,000
Accepted: $7,000,190
Noncompetitive: $-0-

The 6-day cash management bills mature March 14, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve'' plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (91%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (90%); MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (72%); INTEL CORP (56%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (54%); BROADCOM CORP (54%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); EMERALD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (51%)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



162 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: As Seaport Sets Records, Officials Urge More Security

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., March 7 

 BODY:
With the booming business of the Port of New York and New Jersey setting off more alarm than celebration, a group of government officials gathered here on Tuesday to call for stricter international security standards to allay fears raised by a Dubai company's move into American ports.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey reiterated his complaint that the Bush administration did not consult with local officials before approving the $6.8 billion purchase of a British cargo-terminal operator by DP World, which is owned by the government of Dubai. Although Mr. Corzine sued the federal government over the transaction last month, he said the deal had already produced benefits. 
 ''The whole debate has been very worthwhile because we're standing here today talking about security boxes,'' Mr. Corzine said, gesturing toward a monitoring device the Port Authority has begun testing on some cargo containers.
 High above Mr. Corzine's head, cranes operated by a Danish company were plucking hundreds of steel containers filled with imports off the deck of a freighter flying a Danish flag. If not for the Dubai controversy, almost all the talk would have been about the boom in business at the port.
 Last year, the port set annual records for the amount of cargo it handled (84.8 million metric tons) and the value of those goods ($132.4 billion). Only about one of every dozen of the 2.8 million containers that passed through the port in 2005 was inspected. The rest remained sealed as they entered the country from Europe, Asia, Africa and South America and were loaded onto trucks and trains.
 As port activity increases, so does the responsibility of port officials to ensure security, said Anthony R. Coscia, the Port Authority chairman. He said the authority had spent $70 million to improve security at the port since Sept. 11, 2001, and planned to spend $6 million more in the next two years.
 The authority has joined a federal pilot program testing portable devices that could be attached to the doors of containers and track them as they travel the globe, logging their movements and checking for traces of radiation or carbon monoxide inside them. The devices could be expensive, and the corporations carrying the goods would have to order the devices from factories and would have to pay for them. So far, none have volunteered.
 ''Voluntary security is no security,'' said Bethann Rooney, the authority's director of port security.
 The authority also filed a lawsuit related to the DP World deal. The agency sued to break the lease on a container terminal at Port Newark, arguing that it had not been notified of the impending change in tenants as required by the lease. A hearing on that complaint is scheduled for Thursday morning in Essex County Superior Court in Newark.
 Mr. Coscia announced the creation of a panel of corporate executives and government officials to study port security and recommend changes. Among the panel's missions, he said, would be ''to focus on the disruption that would occur in the local economy if you had to shut this facility down even for a short time.''
 As evidence of how important the issue of port security has become, Charles A. Gargano, the vice chairman of the authority, who rarely appears in New Jersey, attended the media briefing. Mr. Gargano, an appointee of Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, will represent the authority on the panel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CARBON MONOXIDE (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%) Ships and Shipping ; Security and Warning Systems; Ports; United States International Relations; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Dp World

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (58%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (58%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%) Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) Port of New York and New Jersey; Dubai; New Jersey; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



163 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Mayor Convenes Antipoverty Group 

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg convened a special commission yesterday at Gracie Mansion to develop strategies for helping the city's poorest residents. The mayor, who has pledged to fight poverty in his second term, gave the commission until Labor Day to recommend programs for addressing unemployment and other problems in low-income neighborhoods. The 32-member Commission for Economic Opportunity will be led by Richard D. Parsons, chief executive of Time Warner, and Geoffrey Canada, a nationally recognized children's advocate. WINNIE HU (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (85%); EXECUTIVES (52%); CHILD WELFARE (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Commission for Economic Opportunity

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RICHARD D PARSONS (66%) Winnie Hu; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Richard D Parsons; Geoffrey Canada

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



164 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Bush and the Nuclear Subcontinent

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I take issue with your March 7 editorial ''Mr. Bush's Asian Road Trip.'' 
 President Bush concluded a nuclear deal with India, a thriving democracy, a growing economy, a responsible nuclear power for more than 30 years and a country whose residents have been shown in poll after poll to be more positive and supportive toward the United States than even America's European allies.
 He denied the same deal to Pakistan, a dictatorship and a known proliferator that counts terrorism and nuclear technology among its principal exports. 
 How could this send the wrong message to Iran, North Korea or anyone else?

Raghu Sundaram
New York, March 7, 2006 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM (52%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Raghu Sundaram

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006



165 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides of Inequality

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
For the past two decades, Annette Lareau has embedded herself in American families. She and her researchers have sat on living room floors as families went about their business, ridden in back seats as families drove hither and yon. 
 Lareau's work is well known among sociologists, but neglected by the popular media. And that's a shame because through her close observations and careful writings -- in books like ''Unequal Childhoods'' -- Lareau has been able to capture the texture of inequality in America. She's described how radically child-rearing techniques in upper-middle-class homes differ from those in working-class and poor homes, and what this means for the prospects of the kids inside.
 The thing you learn from her work is that it's wrong to say good parents raise successful kids and bad parents raise unsuccessful ones. The story is more complicated than that. 
 Looking at upper-middle-class homes, Lareau describes a parenting style that many of us ridicule but do not renounce. This involves enrolling kids in large numbers of adult-supervised activities and driving them from place to place. Parents are deeply involved in all aspects of their children's lives. They make concerted efforts to provide learning experiences.
 Home life involves a lot of talk and verbal jousting. Parents tend to reason with their children, not give them orders. They present ''choices'' and then subtly influence the decisions their kids make. Kids feel free to pass judgment on adults, express themselves and even tell their siblings they hate them when they're angry.
 The pace is exhausting. Fights about homework can be titanic. But children raised in this way know how to navigate the world of organized institutions. They know how to talk casually with adults, how to use words to shape how people view them, how to perform before audiences and look people in the eye to make a good first impression.
 Working-class child-rearing is different, Lareau writes. In these homes, there tends to be a much starker boundary between the adult world and the children's world. Parents think that the cares of adulthood will come soon enough and that children should be left alone to organize their own playtime. When a girl asks her mother to help her build a dollhouse out of boxes, the mother says no, ''casually and without guilt,'' because playtime is deemed to be inconsequential -- a child's sphere, not an adult's.
 Lareau says working-class children seem more relaxed and vibrant, and have more intimate contact with their extended families. ''Whining, which was pervasive in middle-class homes, was rare in working-class and poor ones,'' she writes.
 But these children were not as well prepared for the world of organizations and adulthood. There was much less talk in the working-class homes. Parents were more likely to issue brusque orders, not give explanations. Children, like their parents, were easily intimidated by and pushed around by verbally dexterous teachers and doctors. Middle-class kids felt entitled to individual treatment when entering the wider world, but working-class kids felt constrained and tongue-tied.
 The children Lareau describes in her book were playful 10-year-olds. Now they're in their early 20's, and their destinies are as you'd have predicted. The perhaps overprogrammed middle-class kids got into good colleges and are heading for careers as doctors and other professionals. The working-class kids are not doing well. The little girl who built dollhouses had a severe drug problem from ages 12 to 17. She had a child outside wedlock, a baby she gave away because she was afraid she would hurt the child. She now cleans houses with her mother. 
 Lareau told me that when she was doing the book, the working-class kids seemed younger; they got more excited by things like going out for pizza. Now the working-class kids seem older; they've seen and suffered more.
 But the point is that the working-class parents were not bad parents. In a perhaps more old-fashioned manner, they were attentive. They taught right from wrong. In some ways they raised their kids in a healthier atmosphere. (When presented with the schedules of the more affluent families, they thought such a life would just make kids sad.)
 But they did not prepare their kids for a world in which verbal skills and the ability to thrive in organizations are so important. To help the worse-off parents, we should raise the earned-income tax credit to lessen their economic stress. But the core issue is that today's rich don't exploit the poor; they just outcompete them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PARENTING (90%); SOCIOLOGY (73%) Children and Youth ; Income; United States Economy; Children and Youth 

PERSON: Annette Lareau; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



166 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Children In Torment

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Two little boys -- toddlers in Yonkers -- died horrible deaths last July when they were left alone in a bathroom with scalding water running in the tub. The water overflowed and flooded the room. The children, in agony, were unable to escape as the water burned and blistered their feet and ankles and kept on rising. One of the boys struggled to save himself by standing on his toes, but to no avail.
 Authorities said that when the boys were found, they were lying face up in the water on the bathroom floor, their bodies all but completely scorched. They had burned to death. 
The boys -- one was nearly three years old and the other 20 months -- had been left in the bathroom (which had a damaged door that was difficult to open) by David Maldonado, the live-in boyfriend of the boys' mother. Police said he was the father of one of the children.
 The two adults had taken heroin. While the children suffered and died, the grown-ups, according to the authorities, were lying in bed, lost in a deep drug-fueled sleep. Both have pleaded guilty in connection with the deaths, and have been imprisoned.
 I've been reading (and sometimes writing) stories like this for many years. Every few months or so, some horrifying child abuse case elbows its way onto the front pages, and there is a general outcry: How could this have happened? Where were the caseworkers? Lock up the monsters who did this! Let's investigate and reform the child welfare system.
 And then the story subsides and we behave as if this murderous abuse of helpless children trapped in the torture chambers of their own homes has somehow subsided with it. But child abuse is a hideous, widespread and chronic problem across the country. And despite the sensational cases that periodically grab the headlines, it doesn't get nearly enough attention.
 What some adults do to the children in their care can seem like behavior left over from the Inquisition. According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, nearly 1,500 children died from abuse or neglect in 2003, the latest year for which reasonably reliable statistics are available. That's four children every day, and that estimate is probably low. Record-keeping in some states is notoriously haphazard.
 Authorities in Michigan reported the heartbreaking case of a 7-year-old, Ricky Holland, who begged his school nurse not to send him home to his adoptive parents. ''Let me stay in school,'' he pleaded. 
 He was later beaten to death with a hammer, prosecutors said, and his bloody body was dragged away in a garbage bag. His parents were charged with his death.
 The deaths, as horrible as they are, don't begin to convey the enormity of the problem. In 2003, authorities were alerted to nearly three million cases of youngsters who were alleged to have been abused or neglected, and confirmed a million of them. The number of cases that never come to light is, of course, anybody's guess.
 What's remarkable to me is that we've been hearing about this enormously tragic problem for so long, decades, and yet the reaction to each sickening case that makes it into the media spotlight is shock. How many times are we going to be shocked before serious steps are taken to alleviate the terrible suffering and prevent the horrible deaths of as many of these children as we can?
 We know some things about child abuse and neglect. We know that there is a profound connection between child abuse and substance abuse, for example. We know that abuse and neglect are more likely to occur in households where money is in short supply, especially if the caregivers are unemployed. A crisis in the home heightens the chances that a child will be abused. And adults who were abused as children are more likely than others to be abusers themselves.
 Child-abuse prevention programs are wholly inadequate, and child protective services, while varying in quality from state to state, are in many instances overwhelmed and largely unaccountable. The child protection system has broken down -- or was never up and running at all -- in state after state after state.
 ''There are no consequences to violating policy,'' said Marcia Robinson Lowry, executive director of the advocacy group Children's Rights. ''There are no consequences to violating the law.''
 The kids who are most frequently the victims of abuse are from the lower economic classes. They are not from families that make a habit of voting. There is no real incentive for government officials to make the protection of these kids a priority.
 They couldn't be more alone. They are no one's natural constituency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); ADOPTION (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); BURN INJURIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (69%); HEROIN (67%); STATISTICS (60%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (60%); NURSES & NURSING (50%) Child Abuse and Neglect

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



167 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Threats Rattle at Nuclear Meeting on Iran 

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 8 

 BODY:
Negotiating over Iran's nuclear program has come to resemble an endless session of global poker. In the latest round, played Wednesday in the boardroom of the international nuclear agency here, distrust beat diplomacy.
 The Iranian side upped the ante by blaming the United States for Iran's predicament -- consideration of its nuclear activities in the United Nations Security Council next week -- and threatened retaliation.
''The United States may have the power to cause harm and pain,'' Javad Vaeedi, a senior Iranian nuclear negotiator, told reporters at the end of the meeting. ''But it is also susceptible to harm and pain. So if the United States wants to pursue that path, let the ball roll.'' 
 The threat did not seem to be an off-hand remark. The threat was contained, in almost the same wording and with the same mixed metaphor, in Iran's speech to the 35-nation board of the International Atomic Energy Agency and in a separate formal statement. In Iran meanwhile, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad vowed that those who wanted to ''violate the rights of the Iranian nation will quickly regret their actions.''
 But underscoring the fluid nature of Iran's policy making, even Iran's envoy in Vienna dodged when asked what letting the ball roll meant -- perhaps using oil as a weapon or destabilizing the region, for example. Ali Asghar Soltainyeh, Iran's ambassador to the agency, said the matter would be ''carefully'' studied back home.
 Wednesday's meeting was Iran's last chance to promise to curb its nuclear activities and avoid judgment by the Security Council.
 Last month, the agency voted by an overwhelming majority to report Iran's case for judgment to the Security Council, but gave Iran a grace period of one final month to take remedial steps before the Security Council would take action. 
 Instead of giving in, Iran held firm to its position that it had the sovereign right to continue to make small amounts of nuclear fuel for research purposes at its vast uranium enrichment plant at Natanz.
 Consideration of the Iran case by the agency on Wednesday was a diplomatic ritual. It came toward the end of the regularly scheduled quarterly session of the board, in which several nuclear issues were discussed. A number of board members, as well as Iran, delivered speeches on Iran's nuclear crisis, but no formal resolution was introduced.
 Iran's oil minister, Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh, delivered a very different message in Tehran. He assured an edgy oil market that Iran would continue to export crude even if economic sanctions were imposed. His remarks underscored the fluid nature of Iran's policy making. 
 Noting that sanctions ''could affect'' the oil market and raise prices, ''it will not affect our decision to continue our supply,'' he told reporters on the fringes of a meeting of OPEC oil ministers. ''Oil flow is continuing. The exports will not be stopped.''
 But the Bush administration was quick to focus on Iran's threats. ''Provocative statements and actions only further isolate Iran from the rest of the world,'' the White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said in New Orleans.
 Iran's threats came a day after Vice President Dick Cheney declared, without any specifics, that the Security Council would ''impose meaningful consequences'' on Iran if it proceeded with uranium enrichment activities. He did not indicate how he was able to predict the outcome of Security Council deliberations before the body even met. 
 The Bush administration's envoy to the nuclear agency, Gregory L. Schulte, kept up the fierce tone on Wednesday, telling reporters, ''The leadership in Tehran has thus far chosen a course of flagrant threats and phone negotiation.''
 Uncertainty about Iran's intentions, coupled with persistent threats from Washington about punitive measures against Iran, prompted pleas for caution and a return to negotiations.
 ''Everybody is looking forward to a political settlement,'' Mohamed ElBaradei, the agency's director and the most recent recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, told reporters Wednesday in Vienna at the end of the meeting on Iran. He added: ''What we need at this stage is cool-headed approaches. We need for people to lower the rhetoric.''
 Dr. ElBaradei called on Iran to resolve outstanding issues of concern and restore the world's confidence ''to get out of the hole that we're in today.''
 He underscored that in the long term, the United States held the key to building Iran's trust with the world. Stressing that it was a personal view, he said that once security issues began to be discussed with Iran, ''the U.S. should be engaged into a dialogue.''
 In Washington, R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary of state for political affairs, said action against Iran in the Security Council would start early next week.
 The first step will be a ''strong statement'' about Iran, which means a statement by the Council president that lacks the force of a formal resolution. But Mr. Burns said that if the Iranian government did not ''accede to the wishes of the international community, then of course we would have to look at possible targeted sanctions, which a number of countries are already beginning to explore.''
 The sanctions ''will be specifically targeted to pressure the regime and Iran's nuclear and missile programs, rather than hurting the great majority of innocent Iranians,'' he said.
 The outcome of Wednesday's meeting was a setback for Russia, which is opposed to using the Security Council as a vehicle to punish Iran. In recent days, Russia floated -- then withdrew under American pressure -- a face-saving proposal to restart negotiations that would have allowed Iran to conduct some small-scale uranium enrichment eventually.
 In his speech to the board on Wednesday, Russia's ambassador, Grigory V. Berdennikov, called on Iran to ''fully cooperate'' with the nuclear agency ''without delay'' so that its case could be dealt with in a ''normal, routine'' way inside the I.A.E.A.
 The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said Wednesday after meeting with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, that ''I don't think sanctions as a means to solve a crisis has ever achieved a goal in the recent history.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about negotiations over Iran's nuclear program misstated a word in part of a comment by the Bush administration's representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Gregory L. Schulte. He said Iran's leaders had chosen ''a course of flagrant threats and phony negotiations,'' not ''phone negotiations.''
 Because of an editing error, the article also misstated the whereabouts of Iran's oil minister, Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh, who sought to assure oil markets that Iran would continue to export crude oil even if economic sanctions were imposed on Iran because of its nuclear program. He spoke at an OPEC ministerial meeting in Vienna, not in Tehran.
An article on Thursday about negotiations over Iran's nuclear program misstated a word in part of a comment by the Bush administration's representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Gregory L. Schulte. He said Iran's leaders had chosen ''a course of flagrant threats and phony negotiations,'' not ''phone negotiations.''
 Because of an editing error, the article also misstated the whereabouts of Iran's oil minister, Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh, who sought to assure oil markets that Iran would continue to export crude oil even if economic sanctions were imposed on Iran because of its nuclear program. He spoke at an OPEC ministerial meeting in Vienna, not in Tehran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (83%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%) Atomic Energy; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%) United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%) Elaine Sciolino; Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh; Javed Vaeedi

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



168 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: A Calculated Life

BYLINE: By Rick Moranis. 
Rick Moranis is the creator of rickmoranis.com and a country music album, ''The Agoraphobic Cowboy.''

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, has agreed to sell his memoir for an advance of more than $8.5 million making a deal that appears to give him the second-largest advance ever paid for a nonfiction book.
 -- The Times, March 8
 
 IT was the best of times but it might also have quite possibly led to the worst of times.
One thing was for sure: it was a beautiful day. It felt like, oh, around 63 or 64 degrees Fahrenheit. I estimated, assessing the precise time of day, the mean annualized temperature, all available barometrics (which were hovering at about 30.2 and appeared to be falling), and the constantly changing, though only partial, cloud cover which seemingly would have to have been caused by prevailing winds, that it might get up to 65 degrees by midday. But that didn't stop me from wearing an undershirt.
 My father had always insisted that I wear undershirts. He felt that if one were to sweat, the undershirt could absorb the perspiration efficiently, thereby prolonging the immediate look and the overall life of any dress shirt and additionally augmenting outer garments. Based on the relative lower cost of the simpler undergarments, factoring in cotton inventories and rising yields in dry- cleaning revenues, a good suit could last a hell of a lot longer if you didn't stink it up. 
 I got into my car and headed off to grab some java and a few chocolate donuts. I took off my suit jacket and laid it across the back seat. It was far more practical to crease the back of my shirt than jeopardize the relative appearance of my suit. 
 Obviously, whatever perspiration might occur as a result of any prolonged contact between my shirt and the back of the car seat would a) be absorbed by the undershirt as noted above, which would b) garner a more satisfactory short-term outcome for the suit jacket and therefore, by association, the overall suit; c) prolong the reasonably expected term of the suit and positively affect its depreciation specifically and as a result all competitively scheduled worsted assets in my current capacity; d) positively alter the amortization schedule of any and all haberdashery future capitalizations, should the same policy stay in effect; e) capitulate to such non-broader market variables as air-conditioning temperature and fan-speed preferences. 
 A minor note here: I drive a late-model four-door vehicle and, despite what some may view as a pervasive trend in certain determinably varied psychological and emotional market conditions, intend to for some time. In the case of highly attractive, so-called two-door sporty coupes, the driver may be less inclined to lay his or her suit jacket across the back seat. In some cases, I'm told, there is, curiously, no back seat. It would have to at this point be speculative to ascertain whether laying a suit jacket across the empty front passenger seat would yield similar positive effects.
 One could argue that were there in existence a passenger willing to carry said jacket, and/or barring any possibility that the jacket might fall on the car floor during a difficult or challenging period in the duration of its carriage, that there might be vague uncertainties in the degree of implications that might befall the jacket. The more important issue is the shirt. And whatever trade-in price I could get if I decide to get a sports car.
 But I digress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LITERATURE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (66%) United States Economy; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) Alan Greenspan; Rick Moranis

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



169 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Vermonters' Tax Burden

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Vermont Losing Prized Resource as Young Depart'' (front page, March 4): 
As a former Boston metro resident who resettled his family in Poultney, Vt., I was especially interested in the article about our state's youth drain. Vermont's looming demographic crisis is indeed all too real. You did not mention a primary cause of the problem: taxes. 
 Thanks to a judicial decision in the 1990's, Vermont's property owners have been burdened with exceptionally high property taxes to finance equal education for all Vermont's school kids. This decision instantly made it more difficult for middle-income folks to own a home and raise a family in Vermont. 
 Combine this with a state culture that generally shuns business and development, therefore job creation, and you will have youth flight. 
 Until Vermont finds a sane balance between feel-good earthy-crunchiness and the economics of the real world, that youth flight will continue. 

Jon Harrison
Poultney, Vt., March 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (86%); REAL ESTATE (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); JOB CREATION (51%) Children and Youth; Taxation; Property Taxes

PERSON: Jon Harrison

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Vermont

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



170 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: OPEC to Keep Output Near Maximum Levels

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 8 

 BODY:
OPEC said on Wednesday that it would keep pumping oil near its maximum levels in an effort that could cool down prices. 
 The decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which produces about 40 percent of the world's crude oil, coincided with a report showing a surge in crude oil stocks in the United States. Taken together, these sent oil prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange down $1.56, to $60.02 a barrel on Wednesday.
But with geopolitical tensions revolving around several oil producers -- including the OPEC members Nigeria, Iran and Iraq -- ministers at the gathering here acknowledge that their action may have little impact on today's volatile markets. 
 ''Prices have their ebbs and flows,'' Edmund Daukoru, OPEC's current president, said in a news conference at the end of the group's one-day meeting. ''We are concerned that prices don't get out of hand.''
 Since OPEC abandoned its target range of $22 to $28 a barrel in January 2005, the oil-producing group has left one major question unanswered: What is the lowest level it will let prices fall to before taking action? 
 Last week, Mr. Daukoru, who is also Nigeria's oil minister, said he believed $60 constituted a fair price for oil. He declined to repeat that statement Wednesday, saying simply that ''there are probably as many views as there are member countries as to what a fair price is.''Mike Rothman, senior managing director at the International Strategy and Investment Group, said: ''What's the right price? They are not really sure yet. The fundamentals in the market are being obscured by fear.'' 
 While supplies are actually plentiful now, prices have risen since the beginning of the year because of two political developments: violence that has occurred in Nigeria's biggest oil region and a diplomatic showdown over Iran's nuclear program.
 Indeed, as OPEC was gathering here, the board of the International Atomic Energy Agency was also convening in Vienna to discuss Iran and the restart of its nuclear program. Iran's energy representatives have been sending mixed signals about their willingness to curb their oil exports in retaliation for potential international sanctions. Iran's oil minister sought to reassure the OPEC gathering that his country did not plan to use its so-called oil weapon.
 In Nigeria, militant attacks in the oil-rich Niger Delta have forced oil companies to cut production by about 500,000 barrels a day. In total, Nigeria has lost 10 million barrels of oil output so far. 
 As the OPEC conference ended, weekly statistics released in the United States showed that oil inventories posted a surprisingly big jump of 6.8 million barrels last week, nearly four times what analysts expected. The Energy Information Administration said crude stocks were now at 335.1 million barrels, 10 percent higher than a year ago, mainly because refineries have entered into their seasonal maintenance period ahead of the summer months. Analysts had expected a weekly increase of just 1.6 million barrels.
 OPEC's chief concern recently has been about falling oil prices. For months, some of OPEC's top representatives have been eager to trim production, fearing that a seasonal slowdown in demand in the second quarter and a build-up in inventories might lead to a sharp slide in prices.
 ''We know we are taking a risk,'' said Mr. Daukoru, acknowledging OPEC's concerns about rapidly building oil stocks. ''But it is not a world free of risks. We've taken a decision full of risks.''
 But OPEC concluded that it could not change its current policy at the moment. The group is pumping nearly 30 million barrels a day, its highest level since 1979. Only Saudi Arabia has some untapped capacity left to make up for sudden disruptions in global supplies. Oil consumption is expected to rise by 2.2 percent, to 85 million barrels a day this year, according to the International Energy Agency, with global economic growth expected to be 4.3 percent in 2006.
 ''The world has gotten very quickly accustomed to high prices, and consumers have too,'' said Jason Schenker, an economist with Wachovia, who was attending the meeting in Vienna.Until the world builds up more oil production and refining capacity, oil prices are likely to remain high. The United States Energy Department said it expected an average price of $64 a barrel for 2006 and $61 a barrel in 2007.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Edmund Daukoru, Nigeria's oil minister, at yesterday's OPEC meeting. (Photo by Ronald Zak/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading ; Reserves (Natural Resources); Inventories (Economic Indicator); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (66%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Energy Information Administration

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad; Edmund (Min) Daukoru

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); IRAQ (79%); NIGER (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



171 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: The Difference Between Men and Women, Revisited: It's About Competition

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
GENDER differences are a topic of endless discussion for parents, teachers and social scientists. The only place where they cannot be talked about seems to be Harvard.
 Luckily, some academic researchers still find the topic important enough and interesting enough to study. A noteworthy case in point is a recent National Bureau of Economic Research working paper by a Stanford economist, Muriel Niederle, and Lise Vesterlund, a University of Pittsburgh economist, titled, ''Do Women Shy Away From Competition? Do Men Compete Too Much?'' (A nontechnical description of the paper may be found at www.nber.org/digest/feb06/w11474.html.)
It is widely noted that women are not well represented in high-paying corporate jobs, or in mathematics, science and engineering jobs. As the authors observe, the ''standard economic explanations for such occupational differences include preferences, ability and discrimination.'' 
 To this list the authors add a new factor: attitudes toward competitive environments. If men prefer more competitive environments than women, then there will be more men represented in areas where competition is intense.
 Of course, discussions of gender differences of any sort can only be statements about averages; it is clear that there are women who thrive in competitive environments and men who do not. Furthermore, attitudes toward competition may be ingrained or a result of factors like social stereotyping.
 Is there any evidence that the hypothesis is true? Do men really prefer more competitive environments than women? One could cite anecdote after anecdote, but the authors took a much more direct approach: they ran an experiment.
 By using an experiment, the authors were able to determine not only whether men and women differ in their willingness to compete, but more important, whether they differ in their willingness to compete conditioned on their actual performance.
 The economists asked 80 subjects, divided into groups of two women and two men, to add up sets of five two-digit numbers for five minutes. The subjects performed the task first on a piece-rate basis (50 cents for each correct answer) and then as a tournament (the person with the most correct answers in each group received $2 per correct answer, while other participants received nothing). Note that a subject with a 25 percent chance of being a winner in the tournament received the same average payment as in the piece-rate system.
 All participants were told how many problems they got right, but not their relative performance. After completing the two tasks, the subjects were asked to choose whether they preferred a piece-rate system or a tournament for the third set of problems.
 There were several interesting findings in this experiment. First, there were no differences between men and women in their performance under either compensation system. Despite this, twice as many men selected the tournament as women (75 percent versus 35 percent). 
 Even if one accounts for performance by comparing only men and women with the same number of correct answers, the women have a 38 percent lower probability of choosing the tournament compensation.
 Why were the men much more likely to choose the tournament? Perhaps it was because they felt more confident about their abilities. The data support this hypothesis, with 75 percent of the men believing that they won their four-player tournament, while 43 percent of the women thought they were best in their group.
 Though both groups were overconfident about their performance, the men were much more so. So, women were less likely than men to choose the tournament compensation system even when actual or believed performance was considered.
 The authors looked at a number of possible explanations for this finding, one being different risk aversion between men and women. But they rejected this explanation since the difference in risk aversion required to explain the results would have been implausibly large.
 The results of this experiment are consistent with the finding by a Berkeley finance professor, Terry Odean, that men trade stocks excessively, apparently because they (wrongly) feel that they have exceptional ability to pick winners. Women trade less, but do better on average, because they are more likely to follow a buy-and-hold strategy.
 The authors summarized their experimental results by saying, ''From a payoff-maximizing perspective, high-performing women enter the tournament too rarely, and low-performing men enter the tournament too often.'' The low-performing men and the high-performing women are both hurt by this behavior but, in this experiment at least, the costs to the women who did not choose the tournament when they should have exceeded the costs to the men who should have avoided the tournament.
 One should not read too much into one study. But if it is really true that women choose occupations that involve less competition, then one may well ask why. Sociobiologists may suggest that such differences come from genetic propensities; sociologists may argue for differences in social roles and expectations; developmental psychologists may emphasize child-rearing practices. Whatever the cause, Ms. Niederle and Ms. Vesterlund have certainly raised a host of interesting and important questions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); ENGINEERING (73%); BONDS (72%); MATHEMATICS (70%) United States Economy; Women; Men ; Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (83%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%) Stanford University; National Bureau of Economic Research; University of California (Berkeley); University of Pittsburgh

PERSON: Hal R Varian; Muriel (Prof) Niederle; Lise (Prof) Vesterlund; Terrance (Prof) Odean

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



172 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Economists Are Watchful as Tokyo Ends Loose-Money Policy 

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, March 9 

 BODY:
Is Japan about to start a sell-off in global financial markets?
 Economists have dismissed such fears as alarmist. But a decision by Japan's central bank on Thursday, by a vote of 7-1, to scrap its unprecedented super-loose monetary policy has raised concerns about the possible fallout on the global economy.
 The central bank's decision was seen as a first step toward an eventual rise in short-term interest rates in Japan from near zero and seemed to reflect the bank's confidence that deflation was under control. 
 But because no major central bank has ever had such a loose policy, no one knows for sure how to end it smoothly. Some economists say making the decision to end the loose-money policy might have been the easy part; the bank must now avoid sending shock waves through the country's recovering economy and through world markets.
 ''These are uncharted waters for a central bank,'' R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia University Business School and a central banking expert, said. ''Exiting with minimal disruptions will be a difficult exercise.''
 In a statement, the bank said it would no longer set a target for the amount of surplus funds in the money market, but would adopt a more traditional tactic of guiding the unsecured overnight call rate, which has been at around 0.001 percent for several years.
 The world has been awaiting the decision because the tightening by the bank will end one of the biggest financial free rides in modern history. The policy was adopted in 2001 as an emergency measure to inflate prices and prop up the country's teetering banks. But it also had the unintended side effect of turning the country into a huge pot of free money for the rest of the world.
 That is because half a decade of near-zero interest rates has driven Japanese investors, from retirees to megabanks, to buy foreign stocks and bonds in search of higher returns. Global markets have also gotten a boost from the so-called carry trade, in which investors borrowed cheaply in Japan to invest elsewhere.
 The fear is that this flow could suddenly reverse if interest rates start to rise. That could spell trouble for overseas markets like New York and London because Japanese investors could start selling stock and bond holdings to repatriate their money.
 While most economists call these concerns overblown, they do acknowledge that there is some basis for them, because Japan is a huge buyer of foreign securities. They also warn that the anxieties could end up becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy if nervous investors start pre-emptively pulling out of financial markets.
 ''There is a risk of people overreacting,'' said Richard Jerram, a Tokyo-based economist for Macquarie Securities. ''The five-year free ride comes to an end, or at least that's the fear.''
 The focus of all this attention has been the Bank of Japan's governing policy board, whose nine members began a two-day meeting in Tokyo on Wednesday. On Thursday, the board ended the current policy, called quantitative easing, which essentially stuffed Japanese banks with cash to help them write off huge bad loans accumulated during the 1990's.
 The policy also kept short-term rates near zero in the hope of ending a downward spiral in prices. Concerns of a tightening have already been felt as long-term rates in Japan's bond market have jumped since mid-January. 
 One reason for all the anxiety about the behavior of Japanese investors is the size of their holdings overseas. Japanese individuals and companies held overseas assets worth 107.7 trillion yen, or $915 billion, at the end of 2004, according to the Finance Ministry, the most recent data available.
 The pace of Japanese investment overseas has also been quickening in recent years. According to Bank of Japan, Japanese investors bought foreign securities worth about 9.9 trillion yen in the three months that ended in Sept. 30, three times as much as a year earlier.
 A reversal of these huge flows of cash could have even broader ripple effects in the global economy, some economists say. If money grows scarcer in the United States, interest rates could rise there, too. Economists say this could lead to a situation -- far-fetched but not entirely implausible -- in which the Bank of Japan deflates the American real estate market, as homebuyers face more expensive mortgages.
 ''It probably won't happen, but there's always the possibility of unexpected consequences,'' said Atsushi Nakajima, chief economist at the research arm of Mizuho Financial, which is based in Tokyo.
 The bank's decision could also have huge consequences for Japan's own $4.6 trillion economy, which is finally growing again. This has fueled a political debate between bank supporters, who caution against undermining its independence, and detractors, who warn that tightening too soon could hurt the recovery.
 The Bank of Japan feared that maintaining easy money for too long could cause the reviving economy to overheat, possibly creating inflation or a stock market bubble. The Bank of Japan's governor, Toshihiko Fukui, has repeatedly said that he would like to return policy to a more ''normal'' footing as soon as consumer prices show sustained gains, a sign that deflation is over.
 That now seems to be the case, after the government said last week that consumer prices in January posted their third consecutive gain. Adding to the weight of the evidence, the central bank reported Wednesday that Japan's banks increased lending in February for the first time in more than nine years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TELEPHONE RATES (76%); DEFLATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); HISTORY (65%) Credit; Interest Rates; Economic Conditions and Trends; Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%) Bank of Japan

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



173 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 507 words

PERSON: Robert J. Dryfoos

HEADLINE: Robert J. Dryfoos, 63, Former Councilman

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Robert J. Dryfoos, who played a critical role in the fight to save Radio City Music Hall from demolition and then represented the Upper East Side on the City Council for 11 years, died on March 2 at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 63. 
 The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said his companion, Susan Dymond.
Robert Jerry Dryfoos was born on Aug. 11, 1942. He graduated from Marietta College in Ohio and received a law degree from New York University. He was admitted to the state bar in 1968.
 Mr. Dryfoos entered government in 1975 as chief counsel to Lt. Gov. Mary Anne Krupsak. Besides coordinating the effort to save Radio City, whose interior was designated a city landmark in 1978, he worked with public television stations to develop programming like ''Live From Lincoln Center'' and drafted economic development and professional licensing laws.
 From 1978 to 1980, Mr. Dryfoos was a lawyer for the State Assembly and advised its Housing Committee. In November 1980, Mr. Dryfoos won a special election to complete the term of Jane B. Trichter, who had resigned from the Council.
 Mr. Dryfoos is perhaps best known for a vote he cast on Jan. 8, 1986, when he defied the Manhattan and Brooklyn Democratic leaders to support Peter F. Vallone, a Queens Democrat, as speaker of the Council. Mr. Dryfoos had promised the leaders that he would support a Brooklyn colleague, Samuel Horwitz, but at the last minute he declared his support for Mr. Vallone, giving him an 18-to-17 victory.
 ''It was a profile in courage,'' recalled Mr. Vallone, who was speaker until 2001 and devoted a chapter to the episode in his memoir, ''Learning to Govern,'' published last year. ''Up until this guy, the votes only went according to what the county leaders said. This was a big, big break from what had transpired on the City Council up until that time.'' 
 At the time, Mr. Dryfoos described Mr. Vallone as ''clearly the most qualified person to lead us into the 1990's,'' but some of his Council colleagues never forgave him and refused to speak to him for years. 
 Mr. Dryfoos decided not to seek re-election in 1991 after The New York Times reported that he had failed to file federal income-tax returns for three years; accepted a loan from a developer whose projects he had promoted; and used an expense fund for personal bills. However, he denied any wrongdoing and was never charged with a crime. Some of his defenders say that a minor matter was exaggerated and exploited by his political opponents, adding that they believe he paid the taxes.
 In 1999, after his political career had ended, he established the Dryfoos Group, a lobbying firm. He worked for after-school programs and helped the Center for Educational Innovation-Public Education Association, a nonprofit organization, secure city money to help low-income students prepare for high-school entrance exams and to improve social studies instruction.
 Mr. Dryfoos never married. In addition to Ms. Dymond, he is survived by her two sons and two grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Councilman Robert J. Dryfoos (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1989)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LOBBYING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COUNTIES (72%); LAWYERS (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); INCOME TAX (50%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



174 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: State And City Unemployment Falls 

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate continued to decline in January to 5.6 percent from 5.8 percent the month before, according to data released yesterday by the State Department of Labor. The statewide unemployment rate fell to 4.6 percent from 5.0 percent, and the number of New York City residents with jobs rose to 3.58 million, the highest level since the state began collecting such employment data in 1978. ''More New Yorkers have jobs today than ever before, a clear sign our five-borough economic development strategy is working,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in a statement. WINNIE HU (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CITIES (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); CITY LIFE (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%) Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



175 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Verizon's Best Next Move? Maybe It's No Move at All

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
With AT&T proposing to buy BellSouth, Wall Street is looking to Verizon, the second-biggest Bell company, to make the next move. 
 Verizon has already said it wants to buy out Vodafone, which owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless. But while taking full control of the wireless division would allow Verizon to include all the profits from its mobile phone division on its income statements, some investors say that Verizon would be smarter to sit tight, at least for now.
Charles Smith, the chief investment officer at the Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh, who manages a $900 million fund that includes shares of AT&T and Verizon, for one, argues that Verizon does not need to imitate AT&T's buying spree. 
 ''Getting all of the Vodafone stake is only a matter of financial reporting,'' Mr. Smith said. ''but in terms of strategy, they already have everything they need.''
 Besides, the price tag for the Vodafone stake -- about $40 billion, and possibly more -- could alarm credit agencies and investors who are already worried about the cost of Verizon's plan to extend fiber optic cables to six million homes by the end of 2006, and the integration of the long-distance carrier, MCI, which Verizon bought in January for $8.5 billion.
 Some analysts say that rather than pay tens of billions of dollars to Vodafone, Verizon should use its money to build the technology needed to connect its landline and broadband businesses with its wireless business. They argue that integrating all the services will be particularly important in selling to the lucrative corporate market. After all, this was a big reason AT&T wants BellSouth and full control of Cingular, which is jointly owned by AT&T and BellSouth. 
 ''Verizon has to work tighter with Verizon Wireless,'' said Lisa Pierce, an analyst at Forrester Research who tracks telecommunications services at companies. ''As a corporate customer, I really don't want to have to think about where and when I get my phone and data services.''
 While Verizon is expected to focus attention on corporate offerings, gaining full control of Verizon Wireless would do little to improve Verizon's offerings to residential customers.
 As it is, Verizon has management control of Verizon Wireless, which is already growing faster than its rivals. In the fourth quarter, the company added two million customers and its subscribers are the most loyal in the industry. 
 There are other potential deals, though. Some investors have been betting that Verizon will buy Qwest, the smallest of the Bell companies. But that seems unlikely, because Qwest has a heavy debt load and no wireless spectrum, and operates in 14 Western states where there are fewer big business customers.
 There is also speculation that Verizon might pursue a national cable company like Comcast to get into the television business faster. But that could prove very expensive and might also run afoul of regulators who have let the Bell companies get bigger on the assumption that there is enough competition from cable companies.
 Then there is Alltel, the fifth-largest cellular carrier with 10.7 million subscribers. Verizon has long-standing roaming agreements with Alltel, and their networks use the same C.D.M.A. technology. Many of Alltel's subscribers are in rural areas and smaller cities, which complements the largely urban customers that Verizon Wireless serves.
 Alltel is also planning to spin off its slower-growing landline division this year, making the remainder of the company a more likely takeover target.
 But Alltel's shares have risen 15.5 percent in the past year on speculation that Verizon or another suitor will buy the company. Alltel's shares dipped 82 cents yesterday to close at $65.74. Verizon's shares dropped 7 cents, to $33.44.
 Of course, Verizon has the assets to buy Vodafone. Verizon plans to sell its Yellow Pages directories business, which could bring in at least $15 billion, or it could spin off that business into a separate entity. 
 Verizon could also swap its 23 percent stake in Vodafone Omnitel in Italy with Vodafone, which would drive down the purchase price of the Verizon Wireless stake. 
 Verizon also knows that Vodafone faces its own constraints. Shareholders at Vodafone have pushed for a sale of the Verizon Wireless stake as well as its cellphone company in Japan. (After April 2005, Verizon was no longer obligated under the Verizon Wireless agreement to pay Vodafone a semiannual dividend worth about $500 million.)
 Even with these options, the price tag for the Vodafone stake remains high, and investors are paying more attention to whether any acquisition solves the company's longer-term business problems.
 ''With any of these mergers, it's important not to get caught up with getting big for bigger's sake,'' said Robin Diedrich, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis. ''Investors are scrutinizing the price that's being paid.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Where the Money Is''Cellular service has become the principal area of competition for consumers among telecommunications companies.Graphs track the number of subscribers for Cingular, Sprint Nextel*, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless and customer turnover rate, quarterly, for 2005.*Sprint bought Nextel in the third quarter of 2005.(Source by Ovum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); BROADBAND (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); FIBER OPTICS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: At&t Corp; Bellsouth Corp; Vodafone Group Plc

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



176 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Another Drop in Oil Prices Helps Shares to Close Mixed

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks ended the day narrowly mixed yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rising slightly and the Nasdaq composite index declining. Shares of a New York Stock Exchange security rallied in its first regular day of trading.
 The Dow industrials gained 25.05 points, or 0.23 percent, closing at 11,005.74. The S.& P. 500 added 2.59 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,278.47. 
The Nasdaq composite index fell for a fifth consecutive day, slipping 0.92 point, or 0.04 percent, to 2,267.46, with shares of Google, down nearly 3 percent, weighing on the index. 
 And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks closed up 0.78 point, or 0.11 percent, at 721.84.
 About the same number of stocks rose as fell on the Big Board. Some 1.77 billion shares changed hands, up from 1.70 billion on Tuesday.
 Crude oil futures were lower for a third day, with the contract for April delivery settling on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $60.02 a barrel, down $1.56, and helping to spur a gain in stock prices in the final 90 minutes of trading.
 Shares of the NYSE Group, formed in the New York Stock Exchange's takeover of Archipelago Holdings, rose on heavy volume yesterday, closing at $80. Trading under the ticker symbol NYX, the NYSE Group has a current market value around $12.6 billion. 
 Procter & Gamble, the leading maker of consumer products, rose 77 cents, to $61.07, the best performance on the Dow, a dollar-weighted index. A gauge of consumer stocks that includes P.& G. added 1 percent.
 Richard Bernstein, chief United States strategist at Merrill Lynch, made consumer staples his top-recommended market sector for the first time since January 2004. He wrote in a note to clients that the group ''is likely to outperform'' as corporate profits slow.
 CVS, the drugstore chain, gained $1.15, or 4 percent, to $30.07. Credit Suisse added CVS to its focus list of American stocks. Separately, CVS said that its PharmaCare unit had been chosen to provide pharmacy benefits to DaimlerChrysler's United States employees, dependents and retirees.
 Early in the trading session, stock prices were lower on concern that a robust economy would spur the Federal Reserve to continue raising interest rates. ''The biggest concern is how high the Fed will go with rates,'' said Ben Halliburton, chief investment officer of Tradition Capital Management in Summit, N.J. ''That's clearly destabilizing the markets and causing choppiness.''
 Economists have increased their expectations for growth in the last month. A Bloomberg News survey of economists taken from Feb. 27 to March 7 projects that output will expand at a 4.7 percent annual pace this quarter, which would be the strongest in more than two years. In the fourth quarter of 2005, according to a recent revision, the economy grew at a 1.6 percent pace.
 The shares of Google, the popular Internet search engine, slumped $10.57 yesterday, to $353.88. The company said on Tuesday that it had mistakenly posted a revenue projection in notes prepared for last week's analysts' meeting. Google said the projection was outdated, and not formal guidance.
 A Goldman Sachs analyst, Anthony Noto, cut his 2006 and 2007 estimates for Google's earnings per share by about 2 percent, based on the possibility that the company would add fewer partners and report less revenue. Mr. Noto said he expected the stock to reach $490 a share by 2007, down from a previous estimate of $500.
 Biogen Idec and Elan rose sharply after an advisory panel of the Food and Drug Administration recommended that their multiple sclerosis drug, Tysabri, be returned to the market. Biogen closed up $3.50, or 7.7 percent, at $49. Elan gained $3.11, or more than 24 percent, closing at $15.81 on volume of nearly 18 million shares, the highest yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. Trading in the shares of both companies had been halted on Tuesday. 

A Righting of the Yield Curve
(By Reuters)
 Prices of United States Treasury debt traded in a narrow range yesterday, allowing the yield on long-term notes to surpass their shorter-dated counterparts for the first time in more than a month.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 1/32, to 98 7/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.73 percent, from 4.72 percent on Tuesday. Two-year notes added 2/32, to 99 26/32; their yield was 4.72 percent, compared with 4.75 percent on Tuesday.
 Analysts offer varying interpretations for the meaning and repercussions of an inverted yield curve, with some arguing that it suggests an economic slowdown and others saying it has more to do with robust foreign demand for longer-term Treasury obligations.
 A sharp sell-off in long-term debt that began last week helped undo the yield curve's inversion.
 Traders have cited reasons for shunning government debt, with fears of tighter global monetary conditions high among them. And there are concerns that recently stronger economic data could lead the Federal Reserve to keep raising interest rates longer than some economists and market watchers had expected.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (86%); FUTURES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NYSE GROUP INC (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



177 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Admits Error In Lending Ex-Aide $5,000 for Her Bail

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Richard Lezin Jones and Patrick McGeehan contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 8 

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine said on Wednesday that he made a mistake when he lent $5,000 in bail money to a Trenton lobbyist and former campaign aide who had been arrested for stalking the new chairman of the state Democratic Party.
 Later he said that while the former aide was in distress and that he ''reacted as a human being,'' he now has ''a different role and I need to be more circumspect about that.'' He added that he should not have gotten involved when the aide, Karen Golding, called him. 
To Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs worth hundreds of millions of dollars, the $5,000 loan may have been pocket change and a private transaction of minimal consequence. But what may have been a private matter became a public controversy on Wednesday when The Star-Ledger of Newark published a front-page article on the loan and the involvement of both Mr. Corzine and the party chairman, Assemblyman Joseph Cryan of Union County.
 On Feb. 6, Ms. Golding, 36, a manager of government relations for Prudential Financial, was arrested by Union County law enforcement officials near the State House here and charged with stalking Mr. Cryan and trying to break into his car.
 She was taken back to Union County, and after being arraigned in Elizabeth on $5,000 bail, she called Drumthwacket, the governor's official residence in Princeton, in hopes of reaching Mr. Corzine, for whom she had worked as a scheduler during his 2000 campaign for United States Senate.
 She did reach Mr. Corzine, who was meeting that night with Senate Democratic leaders, according to his aides. And after being assured by a law enforcement official that ''she was not a danger to herself or anyone else,'' Mr. Corzine said in a statement, he directed Scott L. Kisch, a longtime aide who is now chief of staff of the New Jersey Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission, to bring the money to Ms. Golding's lawyer to post bail.
 When pressed on the matter Wednesday, Mr. Corzine emphasized that at the time he did not know very much about the case, including Mr. Cryan's involvement. ''I have a friendly relationship with her family and she worked on my campaign,'' he said. ''However, in light of my position as governor, I realize this was a mistake. I did not adequately weigh the impact this situation could have on my position as a public official and the fact that it could divert attention from the important issues facing the state.''
 On Wednesday night, after a town hall meeting in West Long Branch, Mr. Corzine said that he had recommended Ms. Golding to Prudential after the 2000 campaign. He also said that he and Ms. Golding had never had a romantic relationship. 
 For Mr. Corzine, the episode was the first in his young administration in which he found himself on the defensive.
 Mr. Corzine's largess got him into hot water during his campaign for governor last year when news reports revealed that he had given Carla Katz, the president of the largest state employees union, and a former girlfriend, a $470,000 loan for a mortgage, which he later forgave. He also donated millions to organizations controlled by New Jersey's Democratic power brokers. 
 As a result, Republicans and some Democrats wondered aloud about his judgment, although no Democrats did so publicly Wednesday. 
 ''Here we go again,'' said Tom Wilson, the chairman of the state Republican Party. ''Sadly, history has shown us that when something smells fishy it usually turns out to be rotten.''
 To his defenders, though, Mr. Corzine's latest action was, while perhaps politically tone deaf, another example of how his personal relationships outweigh any political consequences.
 When he ran Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment bank, Mr. Corzine was known to some colleagues as ''the $5,000 man,'' recalled one executive there. Anybody in need who could get in to see Mr. Corzine was certain to walk out with a check for at least $5,000, the executive said.
 ''For Jon Corzine, this was an act of kindness and sensitivity and generosity,'' said State Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, a Union County Democrat, who knows all the parties involved. ''Jon Corzine is not going to change who he is because he's an elected official.''
 For his part, Mr. Cryan issued a short statement on Wednesday, calling the situation ''intrusive and disruptive.''Ms. Golding, who has been placed on paid leave by Prudential, did not return a call to her cellphone. Her lawyer, Christopher L. Patella, declined to comment. 
 Democrats say that the story is more complicated than might appear. Ms. Golding comes from a politically active family in Essex County that has been friendly with the Cryans, who are well-known restaurateurs, for four decades. 
 It was not clear if Mr. Cryan and Ms. Golding were ever romantically involved, and his statement Wednesday did not address that issue. 
 She worked on the unsuccessful gubernatorial campaign of James E. McGreevey in 1997 before signing on as one of Mr. Corzine's first campaign employees in 2000.
 Indeed, in a sign that Ms. Golding was still close to Mr. Corzine, a Democratic lobbyist noted that she had organized a fund-raiser for Mr. Corzine last spring. It was held at Cryan's restaurant in South Orange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); ARRESTS (90%); STALKING (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BAIL (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ETHICS (73%); COUNTIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%) Stalking (Crime); Ethics

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); PRU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Karen Golding; Joseph (Assemblyman) Cryan; David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



178 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Suozzi Says He Would Favor Residences at Ground Zero 

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Thomas R. Suozzi, a Democratic candidate for governor, told a group of city business executives yesterday that he supported adding a residential complex at ground zero and opposed state income tax increases, and also confessed a newcomer's ignorance of New York energy law. 
 Mr. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, who was making his debut at a Crain's Business Breakfast Forum as a first-time candidate for state office, also said it would be ''very, very difficult'' to ''burden'' all counties with a statewide living wage law like the one he recently signed for Nassau. Under that legislation, contractors hired by Nassau County will pay $9.50 an hour next year to employees, with the rate rising to $12.50 an hour in 2010. The state minimum wage is $6.75.
Responding to questions, Mr. Suozzi said he would focus as governor on raising the federal minimum wage and lowering the cost of doing business in New York. Then, returning to a favorite political theme, he told the 200 executives at the forum that they could trust him because he had proven executive skills -- rather than the skills of a prosecutor, such as his opponent for the Democratic nomination, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer.
 ''We cannot reform the state of New York and solve the problems that we have by issuing subpoenas and filing lawsuits,'' Mr. Suozzi said. 
 Ryan Toohey, Mr. Spitzer's campaign manager, said in a statement that Mr. Spitzer had fought ''corporate and governmental special interests'' for seven years in office.
 Asked for Mr. Spitzer's views on ground zero, Mr. Toohey said the candidate would lay out ''a detailed plan for downtown redevelopment'' at a later date. When pressed, he declined to describe Mr. Spitzer's specific views on a residential plan for ground zero or a greater role for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in the redevelopment effort, which Mr. Suozzi also supports.
 Mr. Suozzi is trying to put his opponent in a bind over ground zero: Mr. Spitzer is an ally of Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who wants office space to be the focus there, but Mr. Spitzer also has good relations with Mayor Bloomberg, who wants the residential component.
 Afterward, some audience members said they were impressed by Mr. Suozzi and gave him credit for honesty for saying, after a question about Article X, an expired energy law, that he could not reply because he was not familiar with it. ''I've been running for nine days and I'm actually not aware of Article X,'' Mr. Suozzi said, ''so you'll have to forgive me -- I will research that further.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); COUNTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LIVING WAGE (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); SUBPOENAS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); TERRORISM (59%) Area Planning and Renewal; Election Issues; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Housing; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Taxation

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Patrick Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



179 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Nissan Set To Relocate; A Sales Chief Will Retire 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 8 

 BODY:
The Nissan Motor Company said Wednesday that its top North American sales executive was retiring, the highest-level employee to leave as the company prepares to move its American headquarters from Southern California to Tennessee. 
 At the same time, two of the closest associates of Nissan's chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, were promoted to top positions in its North American operations. It was a sign that Mr. Ghosn, who took responsibility for Nissan's North American operations in 2005, wants his lieutenants in charge.
The announcements come as Nissan, which has become one of the biggest threats to American automakers, has recently had trouble maintaining momentum from its record sales of the last two years. And it is still overshadowed by its two biggest Japanese rivals, Toyota and Honda.
 When Nissan announced late last year that it would move to Franklin, Tenn., just outside Nashville, to save money, the news prompted concerns of a brain drain at the company. Twelve senior Nissan executives have already said that they will not make the move. They were joined on Wednesday by Jed Connelly, 60, Nissan's senior vice president for sales and marketing. 
 Of the employees who have already told the company whether or not they will move, about half have said yes, Mr. Connelly said. The 1,300 people at Nissan's headquarters in Gardena, Calif., have until mid-April to make a final decision.
 After Nissan initially announced its plans to move to Tennessee, Mr. Connelly said he had planned to stay. But on Wednesday, Mr. Connelly said he decided to hand over his responsibilities to his successor, Brad Bradshaw, sooner rather than later. Calling his decision to retire a ''mutual transition,'' Mr. Connelly said, ''I just felt like it was the right thing to do at the right time.'' 
 Mr. Bradshaw, now Nissan's North American vice president and general manager, will take over for Mr. Connelly on July 1.
 In other top changes, James C. Morton, North American administration and finance chief, will move to the newly created post of vice chairman at Nissan North America. Mr. Morton worked with Mr. Ghosn when the two were executives at Michelin North America, which Mr. Ghosn ran in the early 1990's.
 Dominique Thormann, the senior vice president for administration and finance at Nissan's European operations, will succeed Mr. Morton. Mr. Thormann accompanied Mr. Ghosn to Tokyo when he took charge of Nissan in 1999 and is considered the architect of Nissan's financial recovery. Both men came from Nissan's French partner Renault.
 Nissan's employees in California have until mid-April to decide whether to transfer to Tennessee. The company has said it plans to be completely moved out of its California headquarters by Aug. 1, and will have a new headquarters built in Franklin within two years. In the interim, the company will operate out of a temporary headquarters in downtown Nashville.
 When Mr. Ghosn announced the move in November, he said that the company thought about half its employees might not relocate. On Wednesday, Mr. Connelly said Nissan knew all along the transition to Tennessee would not be without its troubles. ''I'm not saying we won't have hiccups,'' he said. ''Hopefully it won't be felt or seen externally.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (89%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%) Automobiles; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes; Relocation of Business; Relocation of Personnel; Automobiles

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (96%); NISSAN NORTH AMERICA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (79%) Jeremy W Peters; James C Morton; Dominique Thormann; Brad Bradshaw

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); JAPAN (79%) Gardena (Calif); Franklin (Tenn) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006



180 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 2; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: The Harrowing Tales of the Deceitfulness of Hearts From a Highly Deceitful Author 

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
Not every book receives the film adaptation it deserves, but such is certainly the case with the collection of short stories ''The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things.'' Published in 2001 under the name JT LeRoy, this assemblage of extravagant horror purports to tell the autobiographical ordeals of a cross-dressing, H.I.V.-positive, underage former prostitute from West Virginia who from the age of 4 had been subjected to various evils by his whore of a mother and her cretin boyfriends and Bible-thumping parents. Dennis Cooper was a JT LeRoy booster, as was Dave Eggers, who vowed that both ''The Heart Is Deceitful'' and the similarly themed LeRoy novel ''Sarah'' would ''prove to be among the most influential American books of the last 10 years.'' Somewhere, probably hell, William S. Burroughs laughed. 
 Now, it seems to appear that JT LeRoy never existed, and the books and articles carrying his name were actually written by a clever Brooklyn-born, San Francisco-based woman named Laura Albert. The hipster set, in other words, has its own James Frey. It's only a matter of time (here's hoping) before Ms. Albert grovels for forgiveness before Mr. Cooper, as Mr. Frey did before Oprah Winfrey, though given the readership and rough-trade trappings, HBO would make a more suitable confession booth than network television. In any event, until then the foolish and the masochistic can ease their curiosity about this teapot tempest with the screen adaptation of ''The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things.'' Viewer discretion is advised, if only because it's well-nigh unwatchable.
Directed by Asia Argento, who wrote the script with Alessandro Magania, the screen version of ''The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things'' traces the tribulations of a young boy, Jeremiah (played first by Jimmy Bennett, then Cole and Dylan Sprouse), from the moment his birth mother, Sarah (Ms. Argento), reclaims him from his foster parents. Speaking in Italian-accented English (a detail explained with a throwaway about a boarding school), Sarah soon proves herself a supremely unfit mother. Then again, this chick has trouble standing up. Maybe it's those high heels and itty-bitty skirts she sometimes wears, which tend to force her to bend at the waist and flash the camera. Or maybe it's all the drugs that Sarah likes to take. Or maybe Ms. Argento is proud of her body. It's a nice body. 
 Since this isn't much of a film, there is nothing much else to say, other than that ''The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things'' was, unaccountably, badly shot in crummy-looking Super 16 film by Eric Edwards, who has done great work on films like ''My Own Private Idaho.'' As she proved with her tackily entertaining feature debut, ''Scarlet Diva,'' Ms. Argento doesn't know how to move the camera or her actors, but at least in that film she mostly subjected herself to abuse. Here, she puts three young actors into some squirmingly uncomfortable setups that would be no big deal if they were adults. But that's the thing about underage actors: they're also children, which is why a scene of child rape (a JT LeRoy specialty) isn't just ghastly, it's also grotesque.
 Such exploitation, of course, is what puts books like ''Sarah'' and ''The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things'' on best-seller lists. Given publishing's seemingly endless appetite for memoirs filled with sexual sob stories and kinks, a JT LeRoy was inevitable. Sexual confession is hot, after all, both economically and otherwise, and here was an author who hit all the hottest buttons. That the prose is as tedious as the stories are outrageous mattered not at all, compared with such lovingly rendered degradation. For her part, Ms. Argento had something loftier in mind when she took on the book. In an interview after the film wrapped in 2003, she said she felt bound to tell this story ''because I know how hard it is, especially in America, to be a single mother.'' 
 Some stuff you can't make up.
 ''The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes child rape, intimations of incest and brutal language. 

The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things
Opens today in New York.

Directed by Asia Argento; written by Ms. Argento and Alessandro Magania, based on the book by JT LeRoy; director of photography, Eric Edwards; edited by Jim Mol; music by Marco Castoldi and Sonic Youth; production designer, Max Biscoe; produced by Chris Hanley, Alain de la Mata, Roberta Hanley and Brian Young; released by Palm Pictures. At the Landmark's Sunshine Cinema, 139-143 East Houston Street, East Village. Running time: 97 minutes.

WITH: Asia Argento (Sarah), Jimmy Bennett (Young Jeremiah), Cole and Dylan Sprouse (Older Jeremiah), Peter Fonda (Grandfather), Ben Foster (Fleshy Boy), Ornella Muti (Grandmother), Kip Pardue (Luther) and Michael Pitt (Buddy).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dylan Sprouse in ''The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things.'' (Photo by Palm Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); FOSTER CARE (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (58%) Manohla Dargis; Asia Argento; Dylan Sprouse

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



181 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS Historic District, Charleston, S.C.; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Charming and Venerable, With Kayaking Nearby

BYLINE: By ANNE BERRYMAN

 BODY:
THE Ashley and Cooper Rivers, sparkling blue in the early morning sunlight, flow into Charleston Harbor and form a verdant peninsula where towering moss-draped oaks and tall palmetto trees shelter one of the country's most beautiful historic neighborhoods. Justly famous for its charm, the peninsula -- variously called the Historic Peninsula, Historic Charleston and the Historic District -- draws a steady stream of appreciative visitors, swelling to tens of thousands during the 17 days of arts performances in the late-spring Spoleto Festival. 
 Some out-of-towners fall so deeply under the spell of the shaded streets and graceful old buildings, from pre-Georgian to Greek Revival to Italianate and more, that they return as buyers.
 ''Charleston is a state of mind,'' said Paul West, who manages recording studios in New York and Los Angeles. After just one visit to the peninsula in the early 1990's, he bought a house built around 1870 in the Charleston Single House style -- one room wide, with multistoried porches, called piazzas. ''When I went there,'' he said, ''I just knew." 
 Mr. West, who is 51 and plans to retire to the house, rents it out but visits at least four times a year, checking in with friends he has made while boating in the harbor, kayaking in nearby marshlands and taking in classical and pop music performances. ''During the day, you can be out in the estuaries,'' he said. ''And at night you can be well dressed and eating in a three- or four-star restaurant.''
 The city dates back to 1670, and the peninsula has 10,000 structures that are considered historic, but its sidewalks and streets pulse with life. Douglas Pegram, 58, a Blowing Rock, N.C., real estate agent, said he has never turned on the stove in his second home in Charleston, a two-bedroom condo in a house that was built in the 1830's. He walks to dinner. ''There are so many good restaurants,'' he said. ''It's a small, livable city, and so walkable.''

The Scene
 ''Civilized'' is the word that Dottie Bernholz, 65, a lawyer who works at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, used one Friday afternoon to describe the atmosphere of the peninsula. She was waiting for her husband, Steven, also a lawyer, to come home from fishing and hoped for flounder and redfish to be cooked at their recently purchased two-bedroom condo in a building constructed in 1850. 
 On a sunny day in late February, everybody seemed to be out and about. Young mothers chatted in Waterfront Park, while toddlers darted about. Shoppers on King Street slipped into Saks and Brooks Brothers. A gray-haired couple stopped by Lese Corrigan's gallery to ask about paintings.
 At noon at the Gaulart & Maliclet Cafe, also known by its motto, ''Fast and French,'' customers munched on bread and pate. In the late afternoon, joggers streaked by the Gothic Revival St. Matthew's Lutheran Church, which was backlighted by a glowing orange sunset. 
 On East Bay Street, candlelit tables filled up at Slightly North of Broad (a restaurant near Broad Street) while next door at Charleston Cooks, a kitchen store, an evening class on wine was under way. 
 At Cumberlands Pub & Grill on King Street, the deep-voiced Nappy Brown, who wrote the Ray Charles hit ''Night Time Is the Right Time,'' united a diverse audience with smoldering blues. 

Pros
 The Charleston Board of Architectural Review, established in 1931, carefully oversees the preservation of historic and architecturally significant buildings. ''People are not allowed to just automatically change the facades,'' said Kitty Robinson, director of the Historic Charleston Foundation, a preservation group. 
 Several beaches and about 15 golf courses are just a short drive outside the city.

Cons
 There has been some backlash to growing second-home ownership as Charlestonians see neighboring houses vacant for many months of the year. In 2003 a homeowner, with some public support, donated an easement -- a legal right attached to his property -- to the Historic Charleston Foundation, allowing the foundation to prevent future use of the house as a vacation home. The foundation could take legal action against any future owner who failed to follow the terms. The enforceability of such easements has yet to be tested.
 The glamour of living in a historic neighborhood can be lost when tourists who insist on trekking around the city in the hot and humid summer interrupt you as you garden in your yard and ask to use your bathroom, a former downtown homeowner said.

The Real Estate Market
 Residential properties at the tip of the peninsula, south of Broad Street, are the most expensive, and prices go down as buyers head north, according to Ruthie Smythe at Lane & Smythe Real Estate in Charleston. The most expensive property ever sold south of Broad was a 1772 gray wood-frame double Georgian house on nearly an acre, with formal gardens and outbuildings, that went for $6.1 million in January.
 One day in late February, Ms. Smythe said, there were 54 properties for sale south of Broad Street; 43 of them single-family detached homes ranging from $675,000 for a one-bedroom, 690-square-foot house built in 1841 to $3.9 million for a five-bedroom house, built in 1785, with a harbor view. 
 The 11 condominiums for sale in the neighborhood ranged from $699,000 for a 1,500-square-foot two-bedroom unit in need of renovation to $2.5 million for a 3,000-square-foot property. 
 In the entire Historic District, south of Highway 17, 126 single-family homes were on the market, from $135,000 for what Ms. Smythe called ''a shell of a building'' to $4 million for an 1815 brick home in the Charleston Single style with four bedrooms, double piazzas and a carriage house. The 110 condos on the market ranged from a one-bedroom unit for $159,900 to a three-bedroom harbor-view condo for $3.1 million.
 Houses on the peninsula have steadily risen in value, at rates varying with the type of house and its condition. ''The average is 10 to 15 percent appreciation in the last year,'' Ms. Smythe said. 
 Lynn Hanlin, an agent with Carriage Properties in Charleston, said that given the ''great variety of properties within the Historic District,'' buyers could find opportunities. She said it was possible to get into the market by buying a small, two-bedroom condo for about $300,000.
 Al Parish, director of the Charleston Southern University Center for Economic Forecasting, said that he had studied statistics including utility use and car registration in the Historic District and found that about 20 percent of residences are neither primary nor rental homes, and, thus, likely to be second homes. 

LAY OF THE LAND

POPULATION -- 14,034 in the Historic District; 110,423 over all.

SIZE -- 1.86 square miles in the Historic District.

WHO'S BUYING -- Baby boomers and retirees from across the nation.

GETTING THERE -- Charleston International Airport is served by major airlines. By car, the city is accessible from Interstate 26.

WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- Two Meeting Street Inn (2 Meeting Street, 888-723-7322; www.twomeetingstreet.com), a historic Queen Anne mansion, has a sweeping arched ''piazza'' with views of Charleston Harbor. It offers nine rooms for $219 to $435 a night most of the year, including a generous breakfast with dishes like sausage Wellington and quiche, as well as afternoon tea. Rates at the Hampton Inn Charleston Historic District (345 Meeting Street, 843-723-4000; www.hamptoninn.com) start at $99 and vary by season.

THREE FOR SALE

For Second-Home Buyers Who Are Looking to Escape to the City

Information on properties was provided by the listing companies.

WHAT -- 1-bedroom condo
HOW MUCH -- $510,000

This 626-square-foot, one-bathroom condo is in an 1850 building on a cobblestone street. It has exposed brick walls and is near the waterfront. Broker: Ruthie Smythe, Lane & Smythe Real Estate, 877-451-4801; www.laneandsmythe.com.

WHAT -- 5-bedroom house with guesthouse
HOW MUCH -- $3.89 million

This 6,346-square-foot Georgian home, built in 1785, has four and a half bathrooms, a wine cellar and molding carved in the style of the Adam Brothers in the late 1700's. The kitchen was once in a separate structure, which is now a two-bedroom, one-bathroom guesthouse. Broker: Lynn Hanlin, Carriage Properties, 877-266- 8005; www.carriageprop.com.

WHAT -- 4-bedroom house with guesthouse
HOW MUCH -- $3,999,900

This 1815 Charleston Single has been in the same family for generations. It is 5,000 square feet, has two ''piazzas'' and two and a half bathrooms.There also is a 2,500-square-foot carriage house, with three bedrooms and four bathrooms. It has privacy fencing and lawn irrigation. Broker: Dana Iselin, the Wm. Iselin Company, 843-722-9099; www.webcharleston.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: DIVERSITY -- The architecture of the Historic District neighborhoods of Charleston offers a variety of distinctive styles. (Photo by Stephen Morton for The New York Times)Map of South Carolina highlighting Charleston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); FISHES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); POP & ROCK (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (66%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Geographic Profiles; Housing; Historic Buildings and Sites; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Anne Berryman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Charleston (Sc); South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



182 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 3014 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:

Attractions

Museums and Sites

FRAUNCES TAVERN MUSEUM, 54 Pearl Street, second floor, Lower Manhattan. The museum, in a former tavern, is dedicated to the study and interpretation of early American history and culture. On view, ''Fighting for Freedom: Black Patriots and Black Loyalists''; the George Washington Portrait Gallery; ''Sons of the Revolution,'' with Revolutionary War objects and documents; and ''A Flash of Color,'' more than 200 flags owned by the Sons of the Revolution. One of the period-room displays is the Long Room, the site of George Washington's farewell address. ''Colonists, Revolutionaries, Builders: Freemasons in America,'' with material relating to Washington, Paul Revere, Benjamin Franklin and Lafayette. Also on view, the Clinton Room, named for George Clinton, the first American-born governor of New York, and a recreation of an early-19th-century private dining room. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; closed Sundays and Mondays. Admission: $4; $3 for ages 65+ and under 18; free for children under 6. (212) 425-1778. 


HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. More than 25 buildings, from the late 17th to the 19th centuries, restored and furnished. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; 62+, $4; students and ages 5 to 17, $3.50; children under 5 and members, free. A tavern concert series, with traditional and folk musicians, Saturday nights through April 29; tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9:30, Dan Milner and Bob Conroy. Tickets: $15; members, $12; reservations required: (718) 351-1611, ext. 281.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, 1120 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street. Tomorrow at 3 p.m., a screening of rare jazz films featuring Billie Holiday, Bessie Smith, Ethel Waters and others. Sunday at 3 p.m., a discussion with Barnet Schecter, author of ''The Devil's Own Work: The Civil War Draft Riots and the Fight to Reconstruct America.'' On view, ''Harlem Is Music: Portraits by Carl Van Vechten,'' featuring photographs of musicians, singers and composers. Through March 26, ''New York Comes Back: Mayor Ed Koch and the City,'' an exhibition of photographs, artworks, videos and documents. Through April 9, ''The Mythic City: Photographs of New York by Samuel H. Gottscho, 1925-1940,'' with 130 images. Through May 7, ''Transformed by Light: The New York Night,'' an exhibition on the cultural, economic and mythic effects of light use in the city, with photographs, artworks, rare lighting fixtures and other items. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: through Sunday: $7; 62+ and students, $5; families, $15. Beginning Monday: $9; 62+ and students, $5; under 12, free; families, $20; and Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon, free for everyone. (212) 534-1672.

MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 36-01 35th Avenue, Astoria, Queens. Screenings this weekend: ''Saraband'' (2005), directed by Ingmar Bergman (tonight at 7:30 and tomorrow and Sunday at 6:30 p.m.); ''Song'' (1928), starring Anna May Wong and directed by Richard Eichberg (tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m.); and ''The Pavement Butterfly'' (1929), starring Wong and directed by Eichberg (tomorrow and Sunday at 4:30 p.m.). All four Wong-Eichberg screenings will have live musical accompaniment by Donald Sosin. Museum hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.; and by appointment. Film and video showings are free with admission unless otherwise noted. Museum admission: $10; 65+ and students, $7.50; ages 5 to 18, $5; free for members and children 4 and younger and for everyone on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.; Friday-night screenings are extra. Go to www.movingimage.us or (718) 784-0077.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Through March 26, ''It's All Right Now Rick Nelson,'' a screening of a documentary by Lynne Littman and Taylor Hackford, along with ''On the Flip Side,'' a 1966 musical that starred Nelson. Through April 30, ''From Albert Brooks to the TV Funhouse: Selected Short Films from 'Saturday Night Live.' '' Also through April 30, ''Radio Superstars: Fanny Brice and Dorothy Thompson,'' with excerpts from variety shows and newscasts. ''She Made It: Women Creating Television and Radio,'' a three-year project devoted to achievements of women in the creative and business sides of television and radio, with screenings and radio programming from specific shows. Through March 23, ''She Made It on Her Own,'' featuring television shows produced by their female stars: Marlo Thomas in ''That Girl'' and Mary Tyler Moore in ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show.'' Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 62+, $8; children under 14, $5. (212) 621-6800.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN, United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. Tomorrow at noon, readings from children's books, followed by a workshop in making clay coil pots; workshop admission is first come first served. On view through April 9, ''Expeditions of the Spirit,'' artwork by Lorenzo Clayton, a Navajo Indian, last in the series ''New Tribe: New York,'' featuring works by American Indian artists in New York. Also through April 9: ''First American Art: The Charles and Valerie Diker Collection,'' 200 pieces of North American Indian art. Through May 2007, ''Born of Clay: Ceramics From the National Museum of the American Indian.'' Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; free. (212) 514-3700.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. Through March 26, ''Slavery in New York,'' a multimedia exhibition with paintings, documents, video re-enactments and audio narratives. Through March 19, ''Finding Priscilla's Children: The Roots and Branches of Slavery,'' which documents the story of a 10-year-old girl taken from her home in Sierra Leone in 1756 and sent to a South Carolina plantation. Tuesdays through Fridays at noon, Charles Turner will read from the ''Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave.'' Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 8 p.m. on Fridays). Admission: $10; students and 65+, $5; under 12, free. (212) 873-3400

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center Plaza. Through May 26, ''Show Business!: Irving Berlin's Broadway,'' an exhibition of photographs, posters and scores. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m. Free. (212) 870-1630.

NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, adjacent to Station Master's Office. Through July 9, ''Many Hands: Representations of Railroad Workers,'' an exhibition of photographs, tools and uniforms that illustrate the operation and maintenance of railroads, including photographs of rail workers by Gordon Parks, the noted photojournalist, who died Tuesday at 93. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''The Makeover of Long Island City: Transportation Links, 1895-1915,'' a walking tour of a Queens neighborhood that was the site of major public-works projects; advance payment required: $20; members, $15; reservations: (718) 694-1867. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Free. (212) 878-0106.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., ''Keeping It Fresh! City Gardeners Grow Food,'' a free conference with speakers, workshops and exhibits. Garden hours through March: Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 65+, $3; under 16, free; free for everyone Saturdays from 10 a.m. to noon. (718) 623-7200.

QUEENS BOTANICAL GARDEN, 43-50 Main Street, Flushing. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Celebrate the Full Worm Moon,'' a free family program with the reading of an American Indian story and a discussion about worms and recycling. Garden admission is free. Hours through March, Tuesdays through Sundays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (718) 886-3800.

WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Spider's Dream Catcher,'' a family art project to make a dream catcher and other decorations. Sunday at 2 p.m., a performance by the Enso String Quartet; tickets, $18, members, $15. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission: $4; students and 65+, $2; under 6, free; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon. (718) 549-3200.

Events

New York City

ARCHITECTURAL DIGEST HOME DESIGN SHOW, Pier 94, 12th Avenue and 55th Street, Clinton. With displays and seminars. Today, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; tomorrow and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Admission: $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (800) 677-6278, or www.archdigesthomeshow.com.

AARON DAVIS HALL, City College, Convent Avenue and West 135th Street, Hamilton Heights. Through May 5, ''Caribbean Celebrations: Port of Spain to New York City,'' photographs by Ray Llanos. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., and during performances. (212) 650-7100.

2006 women's performance festival, BAX/Brooklyn Arts Exchange, 421 Fifth Avenue, at Eighth Street, Park Slope. Tonight through Sunday, music, dance, theater and writing. ''Bite Your Lip,'' a performance and video and art installation by Faye Driscoll (tonight and tomorrow night at 8); ''Sunday Series Dance and Performance,'' with pieces by Lisa Biggs, Abby Man-Yee Chan and Mitsu Salmon (Sunday at 6 p.m.). Admission: $15; members, $10; low-income, $8. (718) 832-0018 or bax.org.

IRISH TIN WHISTLE WORKSHOP, Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton. A free hourlong session for beginners, Sunday at 12:45 p.m. Participants can use their own whistles in the key of D, or they can purchase one for $10. Reservations: (212) 247-3231.

'IDENTITY CRISIS; HOW CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS CRAFT PERCEPTIONS OF THEMSELVES,' Goethe-Institut, 1014 Fifth Avenue, at 82nd Street. A panel discussion with Heide Hatry, an artist whose works are on display, and others. Sunday at 5 p.m. Admission: $10. (212) 439-8700.

CONTEMPORARY vietnamese FILMS, Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street. Tonight at 7, ''Lost and Found'' (2003), directed by Vuong Duc; Sunday at 3 p.m., ''Deserted Valley'' (2002), directed by Pham Nhue Giang. Both are in Vietnamese, with English subtitles. Admission to each: $10; members, $7; students, $5. (212) 517-2742.

BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY, Grand Army Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway, Park Slope. Through March 26, ''When Women Pursue Justice,'' an exhibition of photographs, sketches and other items relating to the creation of a mural depicting 20th-century activists and leaders sponsored by Artmakers Inc. and painted on an outside wall in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., a reading by Emily Raboteau, author of ''The Professor's Daughter.'' Sunday at 2 p.m., a talk by Elisabeth Lloyd, author of ''The Case of the Female Orgasm: Bias in the Science of Evolution.'' Free. (718) 230-2100.

GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street. On view, ''David Smith: A Centennial.'' Related events, tonight: at 6:30, a lecture on ''The Meaning of Vision in the Sculpture of David Smith,'' by Peter Stevens; 9 p.m. to midnight, a party with music and refreshments; tickets: $20. Tomorrow: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., ''A Sculptor's Eye: David Smith and Photography,'' a symposium; at 3 p.m. ''David Smith and Painting,'' a panel discussion. Fee for each event, $10; members, $7. (212) 423-3587.

WATSON ADVENTURES Tomorrow at 10:30 a.m., ''The Museum of Natural Hysteria Family Hunt,'' a search for surreal items in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Tomorrow at 5:30 p.m., ''Naked at the Met Scavenger Hunt,'' a trip through the Metropolitan Museum of Art for adults, searching for artwork containing nudes. Fee for each, $30, which includes museum admission. Meeting place and other information: (212) 726-1529. Advance purchase required: www.watsonadventures.com or (212) 726-1529.

CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Tonight at 6:30, a free talk with Mike Davis, a historian and author of ''Planet of Slums.'' Tonight at 7:30, ''Prelude in Pahari: Indian and Western Classical Traditions Intersect,'' a performance by Daisy Paradis, a sitarist; Rosie Hertlein, a violinist; Montino Bourbon, a sarod player; and Naren Budhakar, a tabla player; tickets: $20; students, $15. (212) 817-8215.

Walking Tours

New York City

BROOKLYN CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Crossing Gowanus,'' a look at the history of the historic Brooklyn canal and the brownstone community of nearby Carroll Gardens, meeting at the corner of Smith and President Streets. Fee: $11; members, $9; students, $8. (718) 788-8500, ext. 208.

JOYCE GOLD HISTORY TOURS OF NEW YORK Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Gangs of New York and the Bloody Five Points'' visits historical sites notorious for gang wars and corruption, meeting on the northwest corner of Bayard Street and Bowery. Fee $12. Information: (212) 242-5762.

'WILLA CATHER'S GREENWICH VILLAGE,' tomorrow at 10 a.m., meeting at Grace Church, 802 Broadway, at 10th Street, East Village. Donation: $15. Sponsored by the Cather Foundation. Reservations required: (212) 995-1942 or (212) 559-8638.

'A HARLEM JAZZ WALK' passes architectural and musical landmarks, meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. in front of 3940 Broadway, at 165th Street. Sponsored by Swing Streets. Fee: $20. (718) 680-6677.

'PATRIOTS AND REBELS' examines New York's role in the Revolutionary War, meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. in front of Bowling Green Park, Bowling Green and Broadway, Lower Manhattan. Sponsored by Bowery and Canal Walking Tours. Fee: $12; students and 65+, $10. Information: (212) 979-8013.

SHOREWALKER Today at 10:30 a.m., a walk along the Hudson River, from 42nd Street to Battery Park, and then a ferry ride to Ellis Island, where the walk continues; meets at the Circle Line Ferry Terminal, the Hudson River and 42nd Street, Clinton. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., a walk in Queens from College Point to Throgs Neck, meeting inside the Starbucks near the Main Street subway stop on the No. 7 train. Fee for each: $3, plus ferry fare for the Ellis Island tour ($11.50; 65+, $9.50). (212) 663-2167.

'DR. PHIL's NEW YORK WALKS AND TALKS' Sunday at 10:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., ''350th Anniversary of the American-Jewish Experience: Jewish Lower East Side Talk and Walk'' visits synagogues, food shops and other sites, meeting in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street, between Ludlow and Essex Streets. Fee: $15. (718) 591-4741 or (888) 377-4455.

HARLEM, YOUR WAY! Sunday at 10:15 a.m., ''Experience the Beauty of Harlem Gospel'' includes a visit to a local church and a tour of the Harlem community, meeting at 129 West 130th Street. Fee: $25. An optional meal follows. (212) 690-1687.

OUTDOORS CLUB Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Bridge Walk -- Flatbush Junction to Chinatown,'' a 10-mile walk from Brooklyn to Manhattan that includes a stroll across the Manhattan Bridge, meeting in front of McDonald's, 2154 Nostrand Avenue, off Flatbush Avenue; (212) 348-5344. Sunday at 10 a.m., a nine-mile walk in the Northwest Bronx, meeting on the northeast corner of Broadway and West 225th Street; (212) 691-3844. Fee for each: $3.

STUYVESANT PARK AND GRAMERCY PARK HISTORIC DISTRICTS, meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. on the northeast corner of 14th Street and First Avenue, East Village. Fee: $15. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. (212) 979-2388.

NYC DISCOVERY TOURS. Tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''NoHo and the East Village,'' a destination in the 1800's for the struggling and the well heeled. Tomorrow at 5 p.m., ''Union Square Historic Tavern Tour.'' Fee for each: $13, with drinks additional for the tavern tour. Reservations and meeting places: (212) 465-3331.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Tomorrow night at 6, ''Ghostly Greenwich Village,'' meeting at the Washington Arch. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Stanford White: Splendor and Scandal,'' also meeting at the Washington Arch. Fee for each: $10. (212) 969-8262.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''Irish New York,'' whose stops include Old St. Patrick's Cathedral and the former Tammany Hall, meeting in front of St. Paul's Chapel, on Broadway between Vesey and Fulton Streets, Lower Manhattan. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Pre-Purim Jewish Lower East Side Tour,'' covering more than 150 years of Jewish settlement, including stops at the Jewish Daily Forward building and the founding site of B'nai B'rith, meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets. Fee for each: $15; 63+, $12; students and New-York Historical Society members, $10. (212) 439-1090.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Free weekend tours of Central Park. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Sports in the Park, Then and Now,'' meeting at the Dairy, midpark at 65th Street. Sunday at noon, ''Views From the Past'' covers the early days of the park, also meeting at the Dairy; www.centralparknyc.org.

METRO TOUR SERVICE visits Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, today through Sunday at 2 p.m., and downtown Brooklyn, with a stop for gospel music, on Sunday at 10 a.m. All tours meet in front of the Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Fee: $25. (718) 789-0430.

Recreation

New York City

PFIZER ONCOLOGY COLON CANCER CHALLENGE, Central Park. Three runs to choose from on Sunday: a four-mile run at 8 a.m.; a 15-kilometer run at 9 a.m.; and a 1.7-mile walk at 9:15 a.m. Sponsored by New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration: $20; $14 for members; $10 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $30; $20 for members; $12 for 18 and younger and 62+. (212) 860-4455; www.nyrrc.org.

TAKE A WALK, NEW YORK!, a free series of walks in the five boroughs, will highlight Queens, from Broad Channel to Rockaway, Sunday, meeting at 10:30 a.m. at the Broad Channel subway stop on the A train. (212) 228-3126; www.walkny.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MUSEUMS -- A railroad switch tender, at the Transit Museum. (Photo by A. F. Sozio/Transit Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); HISTORY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); PAINTING (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); MAYORS (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); JAZZ & BLUES (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (63%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: STATEN ISLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



183 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 15842 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: March 10 - March 16

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'RING OF FIRE' Opens Sunday. Johnny Cash hits are the backbone of this musical about three couples. So far, it has received surprisingly good buzz. Richard Maltby Jr. directs (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'HARD RIGHT' Opens Sunday. In David Barth's dark comedy, a slacker college student takes his girlfriend home to meet his parents, and a family trauma interrupts everything (1:30). Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101.

'SIDD' Opens Wednesday. Herman Hesse's novel ''Siddhartha,'' the musical version (2:15). Dodger Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

'ENTERTAINING MR. SLOANE' Opens Thursday. Alec Baldwin stars in Joe Orton's jet-black comedy about a handsome stranger who seduces everyone onstage (2:00). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'FARENHEIT 451' Previews start Thursday. Opens March 21. Ray Bradbury cult vision of the future is adapted for the stage (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' Opens March 27. Something of a phenomenon in the late 1960's, the French singer's romantic music returns to New York in this musical, which features tangos, ballads, boleros and rock 'n' roll (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'A NIGHT IN NOVEMBER' Previews start Tuesday. Opens March 17. A revival of the comedy by Marie Jones (''Stones in His Pockets'') about a Protestant clerk in a Belfast, Ireland, welfare office who for the first time in his life does something really crazy (1:30). Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444.

'THE PROPERTY KNOWN AS GARLAND' Previews start Monday. Opens March 23. Another year, another Judy. This time, the 1970's sexpot Adrienne Barbeau -- Rizzo from the original ''Grease'' -- plays Judy Garland backstage at her final concert (1:30). The Actors Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200.

'SHOW PEOPLE' Previews start Thursday. Opens April 6. A new comedy by Paul Weitz (''Privilege'') about two actors who are hired by a banker to impersonate his parents. Debra Monk stars (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.

'TRIAL BY WATER' Previews start Tuesday. Opens March 26. The Ma-Yi Theater Company's allegorical work by Qui Nguyen about two Vietnamese brothers who set off for America. John Gould Rubin directs (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'WALK THE MOUNTAIN' Previews start Wednesday. Opens March 19. Jude Narita performs monologues by Vietnamese and Cambodian women in this solo show, which was created from interviews with real people (1:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'WELL' Previews start tonight. Opens March 30. After a successful run at the Public Theater, Lisa Kron and her mom, played by Jayne Houdyshell, come to Broadway in this metadrama about theater, sickness and family (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'BAREFOOT IN THE PARK' For a work that celebrates the liberating force of spontaneity, this revival of Neil Simon's 1963 comedy doesn't have one scene that feels organic, let alone impromptu. Directed by Scott Elliott, and starring Patrick Wilson and a miscast Amanda Peet as newlyweds in Greenwich Village, this ''Barefoot'' has the robotic gait of Frankenstein's monster (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Eileen Atkins), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Ron Eldard), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'THE PAJAMA GAME' Sexual chemistry in a Broadway musical? Isn't that illegal now? If it were, then Harry Connick Jr. and Kelli O'Hara -- the white-hot stars of Kathleen Marshall's delicious revival of this 1954 musical -- would be looking at long jail terms. This intoxicating production, which features a charming supporting cast led by Michael McKean, allows grown-up audiences the rare chance to witness a bona fide adult love affair translated into hummable songs and sprightly dance (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

* 'RABBIT HOLE' Thanks to a certain former American president, it has become almost impossible to say that you feel someone else's pain without its sounding like a punch line. Yet the sad, sweet release of David Lindsay-Abaire's wrenching play, about the impact of the death of a small child, lies precisely in the access it allows to the pain of others, in its meticulously mapped empathy. With an emotionally transparent five-member cast led by Cynthia Nixon and Tyne Daly, directed by Daniel Sullivan, this anatomy of grief doesn't so much jerk tears as tap them (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did on Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Broadway

* 'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Scott Elliott's thoroughly delectable production of Mike Leigh's 1977 comedy about domestic discord among the British middle classes. Jennifer Jason Leigh leads a superb ensemble cast as a party hostess who wields the gin bottle like a deadly weapon, resulting in an evening of savagely funny chaos (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

* 'ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL' This Theater for a New Audience production inspires a quiet prayer of thanks to the theater gods. Here is that rare Shakespeare production in which there is nary an incompetent, misjudged or ineffective performance in a significant role. Darko Tresnjak and his cast find a way to make the play's troubled romance, between the adoring Helena and the disdaining Bertram, psychologically credible and even touching (2:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'BERNARDA ALBA' Michael John LaChiusa's musical adaptation of Federico Garcia Lorca's tragedy of sexual repression often feels wan and weary, though not for want of erotic imagery. The ominous, oppressive atmosphere that makes Lorca's play so much more than a potboiler is mostly missing in inaction. Graciela Daniele directs a game ensemble led by a miscast Phylicia Rashad (1:30). Mitzi Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'CONFESSIONS OF A MORMON BOY' Steven Fales, a sixth-generation Mormon, describes leaving his family and becoming a gay escort in this fairly conventional, although admittedly compelling, piece of confessional theater (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. (Zinoman)

'DEFIANCE' The second play in John Patrick Shanley's cycle of morality dramas that began with ''Doubt,'' this ambitious tale of racial relations and the military mindset on a North Carolina marine base feels both overcrowded and oddly diffuse. If ''Doubt'' has an elegant and energy-efficient sprinter's gait, ''Defiance'' progresses with a flustered air of distraction. The excellent Margaret Colin, as an officer's wife, provides a welcome shot of credibility (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, Theater 1, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'GREY GARDENS' As the socialite in limbo called ''Little'' Edie Beale, Christine Ebersole gives one of the most gorgeous performances ever to grace a musical. Unfortunately, she's a pearl of incalculable price in a show that is mostly costume jewelry. Adapted from the Maysles brothers 1975 cult documentary movie, a camp favorite, and directed by Michael Greif, with the excellent Mary Louise Wilson as Edie's bedridden mother (2:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

'HEDDA GABLER' In the title role of Ibsen's destructively dissatisfied heroine, Cate Blanchett is giving roughly a dozen of the liveliest performances to be seen this year, all at the same time, in the Sydney Theater Company's visiting production. A mere one or two at this level of intensity would have been enough. But she remains compellingly watchable in Robyn Nevin's hyped-up, spasmodic production (2:25). Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100. (Brantley)

* 'I LOVE YOU BECAUSE' The plot line -- single New Yorkers in search of love -- couldn't be more familiar, but somehow this fluffy, funny musical makes it refreshing, helped along by an engaging six-member cast, with David A. Austin making a particularly hilarious impression. An impressive start for Ryan Cunningham (book and lyrics) and Joshua Salzman (music), both still in their 20's (2:00). Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, near Sullivan Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100. (Neil Genzlinger)

'INDOOR/OUTDOOR' A comedy by Kenny Finkle about a housecat torn between affection for her human companion and a sexy tomcat promising a tour of the great outdoors. Directed by Darren Goldstein and energetically performed by a cast of four, it's essentially just another dysfunctional relationship tale, with little kitty whiskers drawn on (1:50). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE MUSIC TEACHER, A PLAY/OPERA' A pair of interlocking monologues surrounding a little parody of an opera, with text by Wallace Shawn and music by his brother Allen. Written two decades ago and shelved when the authors failed to find a producer, this is a minor-key, underrealized work that hits a few elegiac notes but steps too gingerly around the psychosexual trauma at its core (1:45). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood)

'RED LIGHT WINTER' A frank, occasionally graphic story of erotic fixation and the havoc it can wreak on sensitive types. Written and directed by Adam Rapp, the play is both a doomy romantic drama and a morbid comedy about the anxieties of male friendship. Although somewhat contrived, it features a lovely performance by Christopher Denham as a lonely soul starved for intimacy (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SOLDIER'S WIFE' When this play first opened on Broadway, World War II was shuddering to a close, and those on the home front wanted to feel good. Despite flaws in the work, the Mint Theater Company's revival of Rose Franken's 1944 comedy is highly entertaining (2:00). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231. (Honor Moore)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to the classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. (Isherwood)

* 'TRANSATLANTIC LIAISON' A play fashioned from Simone de Beauvoir's love letters to the American novelist Nelson Algren and scenes from her novel ''The Mandarins'' (which tells the story of their affair). Wonderful performances by Elizabeth Rothan as de Beauvoir in love, and Matthew S. Tompkins as the emotional Algren (1:30). Harold Clurman Theater on Theater Row, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Moore)

Off Off Broadway

'EL QUIJOTE' Sancho Panza is the real star of this often rollicking but uneven adaptation of Cervantes's ''Don Quijote.'' Caution: no windmills. In Spanish with simultaneous English translation (1:40). Repertorio Espanol, at the Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9920. (George Hunka)

'THE TRAVELING LADY' A small but affecting production of Horton Foote's 1954 play, produced by Ensemble Studio Theater in association with Baylor University, where Marion Castleberry's staging originated. Like ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' of roughly the same vintage, this is a delicately drawn portrait of an anxious spirit in search of home, in this case a young wife looking to reunite with her ne'er-do-well husband (1:30). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:10). Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Phoebe Hoban)

* 'ZOMBOID! (FILM/PERFORMANCe PROJECT #1)' O, the heresy of it! Richard Foreman has introduced film into the realm of exquisitely artificial, abstract theater in which he has specialized for four decades. As it turns out, juxtaposing two art forms allows Mr. Foreman to underscore in resonant new ways what he has been saying for years: reality is, well, relative. And he continues to work in a style guaranteed to infect your perceptions for hours after (1:15). Ontological-Hysteric Theater, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'ACTS OF MERCY: PASSION-PLAY' If there is a coherent story to Michael John Garces' ''Acts of Mercy: passion-play,'' it is resolutely kept from the audience. As the efforts of two brothers to reconcile with a dying father progress, it seems possible that viewers are meant to discern the consequences of family trauma from punchy monosyllabic combat and repeated expletives, but their efforts to connect are continually frustrated (2:15). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, west of Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 868-4444; closing Sunday. (Moore)

'CLEAN ALTERNATIVES' Brian Dykstra's improbable comedy details the good fight fought by a businesswoman turned environmental activist taking on a toxin-spreading megacorporation. The play also depicts the moral transformation of a rapacious lawyer into a love-smitten puppy dog. Call it a fairy tale for our time (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street; closing Sunday. (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

* 'THE SEVEN' The wild ride of luckless ol' Oedipus -- accidentally offing Dad, marrying Mom, being dissed by the kids -- gets pimped to the nines in this frisky and funny new riff on the classic story. Written by Will Power and directed by Jo Bonney, the show is a freewheeling adaptation of one of the more static, less revered Greek tragedies, Aeschylus' ''Seven Against Thebes'': a hip-hop musical comedy-tragedy (2:00). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200; closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

* 'THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL' Led by Lois Smith in a heart-wrenching performance, the cast never strikes a false note in Harris Yulin's beautifully mounted revival of Horton Foote's drama, finding an emotional authenticity in a work largely remembered as a tear-jerking chestnut. This is not to say you should neglect to bring handkerchiefs (1:50). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529; closing tomorrow. (Brantley)

'THE WOODEN BREEKS' The line dividing inspired whimsy from tedious nonsense can be a fine one, and much of this new play by Glen Berger falls on the wrong side of it. An elaborately conceived comedy seeking to celebrate the consolations of storytelling, it unfolds the tale of a Scottish tinker who dreams up imaginary worlds to keep despair at bay (2:00). MCC Theater, at the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200; closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'AQUAMARINE' (PG, 109 minutes) In this sweet comedy for the crowd that has outgrown ''The Little Mermaid,'' two likable pals (Emma Roberts and Joanna Levesque, a k a the singer JoJo) try to help a mermaid (Sara Paxton) find love and learn how to use her feet properly.(Neil Genzlinger)

* 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' (R, 134 minutes) Annie Proulx's heartbreaking story of two ranch hands who fall in love while herding sheep in 1963 has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lee's landmark film. (Mr. Lee won the Academy Award for best director.) Heath Ledger (in a great performance worthy of Brando at his peak) and Jake Gyllenhaal bring them fully alive. (Stephen Holden)

* 'CAPOTE' (R, 114 minutes) Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Truman Capote is a tour de force of psychological insight. (Mr. Hoffman won the Academy Award for best actor.) Following the novelist as he works on the magazine assignment that will become ''In Cold Blood,'' the film raises intriguing questions about the ethics of writing. (A. O. Scott)

'CRASH' (Academy Award, Best Picture) (R, 107 minutes) A gaggle of Los Angeles residents from various economic and ethnic backgrounds collide, sometimes literally, within an extremely hectic 36 hours. Well-intentioned, impressively acted, but ultimately a speechy, ponderous melodrama of liberal superstition masquerading as realism. (Scott)

'DAVE CHAPPELLE'S BLOCK PARTY' (R, 103 minutes) The setup is blissfully simple: a free block party on a dead-end street in Bed-Stuy, with a lineup of musicians, some of whom, like Kanye West and Mos Def, have put in appearances on ''Chappelle's Show.'' The nominal idea, Mr. Chappelle explains on camera, was ''the concert I've always wanted to see.'' The result, which ping-pongs between Brooklyn and Mr. Chappelle's hometown in Ohio, is a tantalizing sketch-portrait of the artist amid an outpouring of hard beats and soul. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK.' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism. (Scott)

* 'LITTLE FISH' (R, 114 minutes) In this tough, savvy Australian film, Cate Blanchett sinks deeply into the role of a 32-year-old recovering heroin addict trying to rebuild her life and fighting the temptation to relapse. (Holden)

'MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA' (PG-13, 144 minutes) Think ''As the Geisha Turns,'' with devious rivals, swoon-worthy swains, a jaw-dropping dance number recycled from Madonna's Drowned World Tour and much clinching, panting and scheming. Directed by Rob Marshall from the Arthur Golden book, and starring Ziyi Zhang, Gong Li and Michelle Yeoh. (Dargis)

* 'MUNICH' (R, 164 minutes) With his latest, Steven Spielberg forgoes the emotional bullying and pop thrills that come so easily to him to tell the story of a campaign of vengeance that Israel purportedly brought against Palestinian terrorists in the wake of the 1972 Olympics. An unsparingly brutal look at two peoples all but drowning in a sea of their own blood, ''Munich'' is by far the toughest film of the director's career, and the most anguished. (Dargis)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'THE SHAGGY DOG' (PG, 98 minutes) Tim Allen is a prosecutor who is going, as it were, to the dogs in this revisiting of the old Disney film, which is far livelier than its namesake. Scenes in which Mr. Allen tries to fight off his inner canine while a no-nonsense judge played by Jane Curtin is holding a trial are comic gems.(Genzlinger)

'16 BLOCKS' (PG-13, 105 minutes) If Richard Donner's presence suggests that his new action flick, ''16 Blocks,'' is a throwback to the 1980's, so does one of the names holding pride of place above the title, Bruce Willis. Mr. Willis has always been an acquired taste, but for those who did acquire that taste, it's a pleasure to see him doing what comes naturally. Which means holding a gun and fending off bad guys with as few words as possible. (Dargis)

* 'SOPHIE SCHOLL: THE FINAL DAYS' (No rating, 117 minutes, in German) The gripping true story of Sophie Scholl, an anti-Nazi student activist in the 1940's, arrested and executed for distributing leaflets at Munich University, challenges you to gauge your own courage and strength of character should you find yourself in similar circumstances. (Holden)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'TRANSAMERICA' (R, 103 minutes) Felicity Huffman's performance as a preoperative transsexual on a cross-country journey with her long-lost son is sensitive and convincing, and helps the movie rise above its indie road-picture cliches. (Scott)

* 'TRISTRAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY' (R, 91 minutes) Michael Winterbottom both confirms and refutes the assumption that Laurence Sterne's 18th-century masterpiece of digression could never be made into a movie by making a movie about the making of such a movie. Steve Coogan is wonderful as Tristram, Tristram's father and himself, though Rob Brydon steals more than a few of Mr. Coogan's scenes. (Scott)

'Tsotsi' (R, 94 minutes) (Academy Award winner for best foreign film.) Written and directed by Gavin Hood, from a novel by Athol Fugard, this South African film centers on a 19-year-old thug who steals a baby and finds redemption. You don't have to read crystal balls to see into Tsotsi's future; you just need to have watched a couple of Hollywood chestnuts. (Dargis)

'ULTRAVIOLET' (PG-13, 80 minutes) The latest in movies structured around eyewear and abdominals, ''Ultraviolet'' stars Milla Jovovich as a genetically modified human -- part vampire, part chameleon, all model -- and one of the many victims of a government experiment to improve on nature. Directed by Kurt Wimmer with a fine eye for the preferences of 12-year-old boys, ''Ultraviolet'' cleaves faithfully to its comic-book genealogy with a plot unobstructed by big words and images that rarely breach two dimensions. Ultrasilly.(Jeannette Catsoulis)

'Unknown White Male' (PG-13, 88 minutes) The British filmmaker Rupert Murray tells the bizarre story of his old friend Doug Bruce, who in 2003 walked into a Coney Island hospital claiming not to know who he was, thereupon becoming either a heart-wrenching casualty of a medical anomaly or the prime suspect in a mystery yet to be solved. (Dargis)

'UNDERWORLD: EVOLUTION' (R, 106 minutes) In this sequel to ''Underworld'' (2003), the writer and director Len Wiseman and the writer Danny McBride pick up the story of the vampire Selene (Kate Beckinsale) and the vampire/werewolf hybrid Michael (Scott Speedman) as they race to prevent the release of an imprisoned uber-werewolf. With leads who strain to manage one facial expression between them, and a cinematographer who shoots everything through the same steel-blue filter, ''Underworld: Evolution'' is little more than a monotonous barrage of computer-generated fur and fangs. (Catsoulis)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon (winner of the Academy Award for best actress), who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

* 'NEIL YOUNG: HEART OF GOLD' (PG, 103 minutes) Filled with country memories, bluesy regret and familiar and piercing sentiment, Jonathan Demme's concert film sounds like quintessential Neil Young, which, depending on your home catalog, will be either an enormous turn-on or turnoff. (Dargis)

Film Series

ANNA MAY WONG (Through April 16) Wong, the first Chinese-American movie star, would have turned 100 last year. (She died in 1961.) The Museum of the Moving Image's extensive seven-week retrospective of her work continues this weekend with two silents directed by Richard Eichberg: ''Song'' (1928), in which Wong plays a dancer in love with a knife thrower, and ''The Pavement Butterfly,'' about a woman who runs away to the French Riviera after she is framed for murder. Both films will be accompanied by live music. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Anita Gates)

DOCUMENTARY FORTNIGHT EXPANDED (Through Monday) The Museum of Modern Art's exhibition of contemporary nonfiction films, which has run five weeks this year, concludes on Monday with ''A Model for Matisse: The Story of the Vence Chapel'' (2005), about Henri Matisse's friendship and special project with a French Dominican nun. This weekend's films include ''The Tenth Planet: A Single Life in Baghdad'' (2004), about an Iraqi secretary's everyday life; ''Bachelor Farmer'' (2005), about gay men in small-town Idaho; and ''Les Petits Soldats'' (2004), about children who fought during civil unrest in Liberia. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

MAN IN THE DUNES: DISCOVERING HIROSHI TESHIGAHARA (Through March 19) BAMcinematek's tribute to Teshigahara (1927-2001), the artist, filmmaker and flower arranger, continues this weekend with ''Summer Soldiers'' (1972), a drama about two American soldiers who go AWOL while on leave in Tokyo, and ''The Face of Another'' (1966), a psychological thriller starring Tatsuya Nakadai as an accident victim who is given an artificial face. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

PRIX JEAN VIGO (Through Dec. 30) The Museum of Modern Art is honoring Vigo (1905-34), the French filmmaker, with a series of 41 films from directors who have won the prize that bears his name. This weekend's feature is ''Qui Etes-Vous, Polly Maggoo?'' (1965), William Klein's satire about the French fashion world, shown with ''Des Filles et des Chiens'' (1991), Sophie Fillieres's short about adolescent friendship. 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

RECENT FILMS FROM FINLAND (Through March 22) Scandinavia House continues its four-month program of Scandinavian films with a series of Finnish features. Anastasia Lapsui and Markku Lehmuskallio's ''Fata Morgana'' (2004), a documentary about the indigenous people of the Chukchi Peninsula, will be shown on Wednesday. 58 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 879-9779; $8. (Gates)

SOME KIND OF HORROR SHOW (Through March 30) BAMcinematek's annual festival of horror movies continues on Monday and Tuesday with Kaneto Shindo's ''Kuroneko'' (1968), about the murderous spirits of two women killed by samurai in feudal Japan. On Thursday, ''Innocent Blood'' (1992), the adventures of a modern-day vampire who bites only bad people, will be shown, along with Michael Jackson's 13-minute ''Thriller'' video (1983). John Landis, who directed both, will hold a question-and-answer session afterward. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ALASH ENSEMBLE WITH KONGAR-OOL ONDAR (Monday) These Tuvan musicians stretch the definition of throat singing, the traditional, polyphonic technique, by adding some Western music elements. 9:30 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; $12. (Laura Sinagra)

THE ALLMAN BROTHERS BAND (Tonight, tomorrow, Monday, Tuesday and Thursday) The archetypal Southern rock band is still on the road. Gregg Allman, the band's keyboardist and main singer, is more than ever its center, since its co-founder Dickey Betts is estranged from the group. His replacement, Warren Haynes, shares the twin-guitar passages with Derek Trucks, the drummer Butch Trucks's nephew and a jam-band leader in his own right. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070; $49.99 to $84.99. (Jon Pareles)

THE BATS (Sunday and Wednesday) Having just released its first album in a decade, this pastoral New Zealand guitar pop band continues to make the loose yet ornately pretty music that defined Kiwi-pop's 1980's heyday. 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703; $10. (Sinagra)

JAMES BLUNT (Tuesday and Wednesday) With a Rod Stewart vocal tone that can also flip into transporting falsetto, this British artist writes songs in the ethereal but angsty Elliott Smith vein, only with more forceful alt-pop production. His song ''No Bravery'' is an antiwar lament that clings. 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Both shows sold out.) (Sinagra)

CRISTINA BRANCO (Tomorrow) The Portuguese songs called fado (fate) balance sorrowful melodies and lyrics about tragic destiny in a gleaming cat's cradle of finger-picked Portuguese guitars. It's music that frames a singer's voice while it mercilessly exposes every nuance of sorrow and determination. Cristina Branco is one of Portugal's most celebrated young fadistas. 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 992-8484; $32. (Pareles)

ISOBEL CAMPBELL (Monday) This feather-voiced former member of Belle and Sebastian has made her own music as the Gentle Waves but also does so under her own name; she recently collaborated on some atmospheric music with Mark Lanegan of Screaming Trees. 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; $15. (Sinagra)

THE CLOUD ROOM, FILM SCHOOL (Tomorrow) The new-wave-influenced naif rockers the Cloud Room garnered wild, though deeply underground, buzz when their best song, ''Hey Hey Now,'' written during the frontman's grave illness, was given lots of wish-you-wells but never broke into larger indie-pop consciousness. The wistful rock band Film School also plays. 9 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $12. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

DILATED PEOPLES, LITTLE BROTHER (Wednesday and Thursday) The straightforward rap of the Los Angeles group Dilated Peoples tries to offer a tough-guy corrective to gangsta bullying and shallow pop hip-hop. The result is short on fun. Little Brother's soul-grounded Carolina rap forgoes Southern crunk in favor of blending the free-form experimentation of Outkast with the kind of jazzy tracks that characterized East Coast hip-hop of the mid-1990's. 8 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940; $25. (Sinagra)

TOM DUNNE AND FRIENDS: A TRIBUTE TO PADDY CRONIN (Tonight) The Irish music traditionalist and multi-instrumentalist Tom Dunne pays tribute to the County Kerry fiddle legend Paddy Cronin. He is joined by the guitarist John Dillon and other musicians. 9, Glucksman Ireland House at New York University, 1 Washington Mews, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-3950; $15; free to Ireland House members and N.Y.U. students. (Sinagra)

EARLY MAN, PRIESTESS, THE SWORD (Tomorrow) The Ohio band Early Man is a heavy-metal duo that harks back to genre polestars like Judas Priest. Likewise, the Texans in the Sword do a great approximation of Black Sabbath's slow menace, at points also revealing hard-core punk underpinnings with intermittent thrash bravura. 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, (201) 653-1703; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sinagra)

DEBORAH GIBSON (Tomorrow) Back in the 1980's she was Debbie Gibson, a teenage pop star correlate to Molly Ringwald, charming her way up the charts with hits like ''Shake Your Love'' and ''Lost in Your Eyes.'' Now she's a grown-up who does Broadway and hosts VH1 shows about, what else, teenage stars. 8 p.m., Canal Room, 285 West Broadway, at Canal Street, SoHo, (212) 941-8100; $30. (Sinagra)

HOT CHIP (Tomorrow) London's literate electro-poppers Hot Chip find room in their techno-savvy spectrum for wiseacre hat-tips to rap, R&B, indie rock and hip, wispy folk. 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $15. (Sinagra)

JANIS IAN (Tuesday) The singer-songwriter Janis Ian is still most famous for the folkie lament ''Society's Child'' and the ugly-duckling anthem ''At Seventeen,'' but the work of this rich-voiced musician is more varied than these, never shying away from the painful nuances of aging and loss, but always seeking redemption. Tuesday, she celebrates the release of her 20th major-label album, ''Folk Is the New Black.'' 7 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sinagra)

NISHAT KHAN (Tonight) The sitar player Nishat Khan comes from a long line of Indian virtuosos, including his father, Ustad Imrat Khan. The tabla player Abhijit Banerjee will join him in his performance of various ragas tonight. 8:30, Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall, (212) 501-1390, (212) 247-7800; $30 and $42. (Sinagra)

BETTYE LaVETTE, MARCIA BALL (Thursday) Bettye LaVette of Detroit released her first recording when she was 16, and soldiered on through a career that carried her through 15 labels, minor rhythm-and-blues hits like ''He Made a Woman Out of Me'' and years in Europe. But her tough, knowing voice and sense of drama could rival Tina Turner's. Marcia Ball plays two-fisted New Orleans barrelhouse piano and sings in a husky, knowing voice about all the trouble men and women can get into on the way to a good time. 8 p.m., B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $26.50 in advance, $30 at the door. (Pareles)

SONDRE LERCHE, PAUL BRILL (Tonight) Since making an indie cabaret-rock splash in 2002, the music of the Norwegian guitarist-crooner Sondre Lerche has suggested life experience beyond its confident purveyor's tender years. Lately he has taken a break from the baroque, applying his breathy yet urgent voice to a batch of lighthearted, stripped-down jazzy tunes. The local songwriter Paul Brill opens. 7:30, Housing Works Bookstore Cafe, 126 Crosby Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212) 334-3324; $25. (Sinagra)

LES SAVY FAV (Tonight) The rockers Les Savvy Fav play revved-up punk with coiffed and stylish contours. 8, Warsaw at the Polish National Home, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (212) 645-5156; $16.50. (Sinagra)

LILYS (Tomorrow) This Philadelphia indie rock band is rendered consistently fascinating by the mercurial nature of its frontman (and only constant member), Kurt Heasley, who has exuded recalcitrant charisma as both an early-1990's shoe gazer and, later, an Anglophilic retro-rocker. 8 p.m., Magnetic Field, 97 Atlantic Avenue, near Henry Street, Brooklyn Heights, (718) 834-0069; $10. (Sinagra)

SAMARA LUBELSKI, MI & L'AU (Tonight) Samara Lubelski, best known for her collaborations with the psychedelic outfits Hall of Fame and Tower Recordings, goes solo here. The Finnish singer Mi and the French musician L'au, after becoming a couple in Paris, moved to the woods in Finland to record what they will showcase here, a cache of austere, wintery bedroom folk. 8, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7503; $10. (Sinagra)

MARAH (Tonight) This Philly-bred band has, in its decade-plus existence, pushed beyond scruffy alt-country into the realms of quirky bar rock and lo-fi 70's folk. 9, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703; $12. (Sinagra)

METRIC (Tonight) Led by the vibrant, articulate singer Emily Hanes, this band finds fresh uses for new-wave brio. Ms. Hanes's shuddering alto functions alternately as a weapon and a whip-cracking come-on. 6 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $20. (Sold out.) (Sinagra)

THE POGUES (Thursday) Before every beer-brewing ethnicity spawned a punk band modernizing its traditionals with lashing, distorted guitar and aggressive, often hilarious howls, there was Ireland's Pogues. Its leader, Shane MacGowan, a man of tossed-off wit, ubiquitous slurring and few teeth, picked up in the 00's where he left off before the band's 90's hiatus. 8 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $50. (Sinagra)

QUEEN WITH PAUL ROdGERS (Sunday) Paul Rodgers, the swaggering lead singer of Free, Bad Company and the Firm, can't scale the falsetto highs of Queen's histrionic legend, Freddie Mercury, so he doesn't try. What results is a more democratized and meaty take on the band's worthy hits. 8 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000; $35 to $125. (Sinagra)

Jane Siberry (Tomorrow) Jane Siberry is always trying another collaboration or another musical strategy. Her sweetly tousled voice, her sly intelligence, her determination to explore and her playful fascination with family, archetype and myth can all lead to intimate epiphanies. 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall, (212) 501-1390; $32 to $38. (Pareles)

ALLEN TOUSSAINT: NEW ORLEANS BENEFIT BRUNCH (Sunday) The legendary New Orleans songwriter, producer and pianist Allen Toussaint, at one point rumored missing after Hurricane Katrina, performs for the benefit of continuing hurricane relief efforts in the Crescent City. Noon, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Avenue, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $30 for adults; $15 for children under 12. (Sinagra)

JERRY JEFF WALKER (Tonight and tomorrow night) Jerry Jeff Walker wrote the hit ''Mr. Bojangles,'' but around his home-stomping grounds of Texas, he's the easygoing, gruffly avuncular icon of the cosmic cowboy mentality, all about spacing out in the wide-open spaces. 8, B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $35 in advance, $40 at the door. (Pareles)

WALTER (WOLFMAN) WASHINGTON (Wednesday) Mr. Washington, a New Orleans guitarist, has been a trusty funky collaborator for the likes of Bobby (Blue) Bland and Irma Thomas. His shows are usually rump-shaking affairs. 9 p.m., Coda, 34 East 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 685-3434; $17.50 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

* Barbara Cook (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) This Broadway legend is loose and down-home and, as always, magnificent singing a 25-year retrospective of songs she has performed at the Cafe Carlyle. 8:45 p.m., with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $100; dinner required at the 8:45 shows. (Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Tomorrow) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 7 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

Samantha Sidley (Tonight and tomorrow night) This budding 20-year-old winner of the Oak Room's young artist competition, accompanied by fellow students from the Berklee College of Music, is a charmingly sunny but still half-formed jazz interpreter. 9 and 11:30, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $50, with a $50 prix fixe dinner at the early shows, or $20 minimum at the late shows. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

J. D. ALLEN (Wednesday) Mr. Allen is a probing tenor saxophonist, but he's not averse to digging into a groove; his rhythm section here includes the bassists Meshell Ndegeocello and Neal Caine and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. 10 p.m., Fat Cat, 75 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 675-7369; cover, $20. (Nate Chinen)

RAN BLAKE/CHARLES GAYLE (Tonight) Mr. Blake is a pianist with an attraction to cinematic imagery and spooky silence; Mr. Gayle, better known as a fiery saxophonist, has his own rumbling touch at the keys. Each has a new solo piano album on Tompkins Square Records, and each plays in that format here. 8 (Mr. Blake and Mr. Gayle) and 10 (Mr. Gayle alone), the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* CELEBRATING THE MAGIC OF TOOTS THIELEMANS (Thursday) Early in his 60-year career, the Belgian harmonica virtuoso Toots Thielemans invented an improvisational voice for his instrument. This tribute concert emphasizes the flexibility of his lyrical style, with a roster of special guests, including the saxophonists Joe Lovano and Paquito D'Rivera, the singers Al Jarreau and Ivan Lins, the guitarist Oscar Castro-Neves and the pianists Herbie Hancock, Eliane Elias and Kenny Werner. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $18 to $66. (Chinen)

GERALD CLEAVER'S UNCLE JUNE (Wednesday) Dealing less in rhythm than in pulse, Mr. Cleaver's drumming perfectly suits the fluid requirements of jazz's post-everything avant-garde; this ruminative project features the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby, the violinist Mat Maneri, the keyboardist Craig Taborn and the bassist Drew Gress. 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

SHANE ENDSLEY GROUP (Thursday) Mr. Endsley, a progressive-minded but lyrical trumpeter, pursues a floating pop sensibility in this ensemble, with Matt Moran on vibraphone, Erik Deutsch on keyboards and Todd Sickafoose on bass, among others. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

LIBERTY ELLMAN, VIJAY IYER, STEVE LEHMAN (Tomorrow) Texture and tonality are malleable properties in this collective trio, with Mr. Ellman on guitar, Mr. Iyer on piano and Mr. Lehman on saxophones. 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

BEN GERSTEIN COLLECTIVE (Monday) The trombonist Ben Gerstein has led this free-improvising ensemble since 2000, enlisting some of the brightest young inside-outside players in the city; here the group consists of seven pieces, including the saxophonist David Binney, the trombonist Jacob Garchik and the keyboardist Jacob Sacks. 7 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; no cover. (Chinen)

ROY HARGROVE QUINTET + 1 (Tuesday through March 19) Mr. Hargrove, a sharp and energetic trumpeter, has led this hard-bop combo for years; as on a forthcoming album, ''Nothing Serious'' (Verve), its ranks are augmented here by the veteran trombonist Slide Hampton. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $30 at tables and a $5 minimum, or $20 at the bar with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* ROY HAYNES QUARTET (Tuesday through March 19) Now in his 80's, Mr. Haynes is irrefutably an elder statesman, but his drumming, like his sartorial sense, evinces a boldly contemporary swagger. He has lost nothing, it seems, to the years; what he has gained is unmatched experience and a legend commensurate with his talent. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JACOB FRED JAZZ ODYSSEY (Tonight and tomorrow) This groove-minded piano trio put out a spacey but solid album, ''The Sameness of Difference'' (Hyena), last year; they boost their considerable jam-band appeal here with a pair of guests, the percussionist Mike Dillon and the saxophonist known as Skerik. 12:30 a.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $15, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

JUILLIARD JAZZ QUINTET (Tuesday through March 19) Commemorating a century of music education at Juilliard, this ensemble is led by the tenor saxophonist Victor Goines and the trombonist Wycliffe Gordon, conductors of the five-year-old Juilliard Jazz Orchestra; the pianist Ted Rosenthal, the bassist Ben Wolfe and the drummer Carl Allen make up the rhythm section. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

DAVE LIEBMAN'S DIFFERENT BUT THE SAME (Tonight) An incantatory saxophonist working in the post-Coltrane idiom, Mr. Liebman digs in with several fellow adventurers: the saxophonist Ellery Eskelin, the bassist Tony Marino and the drummer Nasheet Waits. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $15, including two drinks. (Chinen)

JOE LOVANO QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Lovano has become one of the stalwart saxophonists in modern jazz, equally inspired by John Coltrane's harmonic inquiry, Ornette Coleman's off-kilter lyricism and Ben Webster's heart-rending croon; this band, his newest, includes James Weidman on piano, Esperanza Spalding on bass and Francisco Mela on drums. 9 and 11, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ORCHESTRA SLANG (Monday through March 18) This ensemble has as many pieces as a conventional big band, but looks well beyond big-band conventions (or any others). Its chief architects are the drummer Kenny Wollesen, the trumpeter Jonathan Haffner and, in the role of philosophical guide, the conductor and cornetist Lawrence (Butch) Morris. 7 and 9 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, near North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-6934; no cover. (Chinen)

MARIO PAVONE'S ORANGE BAND (Thursday) Mr. Pavone, a bassist-composer with an expansive worldview, leads a cadre of fellow colorists: Ron Horton on trumpet, Tony Malaby on saxophones, David Berkman on piano and Gerald Cleaver on drums. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

PHILADELPHIA: CITY OF BROTHERLY JAZZ (Tonight and tomorrow night) Continuing its salute to American jazz cities, the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra looks to the vibrant legacy of Philadelphia. Special guests include the saxophonist Jimmy Heath and his brother, the drummer Albert (Tootie) Heath; the post-bop guitar hero Pat Martino; the Hammond B-3 organ whiz Joey DeFrancesco; and the trumpeter Duane Eubanks. 8, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, www.jalc.org; $105.50 and $135.50.(Chinen)

CHRIS POTTER'S UNDERGROUND (Through Sunday) The saxophonist Chris Potter has an improvisational approach that is intellectual and athletic in equal measure; his band Underground dives headlong into edgy fusion, with Adam Rogers on guitar, Craig Taborn on Fender Rhodes piano and Nate Smith on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20 and $25. (Chinen)

TO PREZ WITH LOVE, 2006 (Sunday) The Lester Young Memorial Celebration, an annual benefit for the Jazz Ministry at St. Peter's Church, is a sprawling affair by design; this edition, the 22nd, boasts a lineup of several dozen musicians and advocates, like the pianists Billy Taylor and Hank Jones, the clarinetist Don Byron and the historian and radio personality Phil Schaap. 7 p.m., St. Peter's Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street, (212) 935-2200; suggested donation, $15. (Chinen)

MARCUS PRINTUP (Tonight) Mr. Printup's trumpet style has more than a little in common with that of Wynton Marsalis, his bandleader in the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra; out on his own, he goes for flashier, more avowedly modern exertions. 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, ext. 344, www.rmanyc.org; $15. (Chinen)

MARC RIBOT AND HENRY GRIMES (Thursday) Mr. Ribot is a vagabond poet on solo electric guitar, as he proved with the album ''Saints'' (Atlantic) five years ago. Here he plays both solo and in a duo with Mr. Grimes, a bassist and long-lost titan of the avant-garde; there's no knowing which setting will sound better. 8 p.m., Issue Project Room, 400 Carroll Street, between Bond and Nevins Streets, Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, (718) 330-0313, issueprojectroom.org; cover, $10. (Chinen)

EDWARD SIMON'S VENEZUELAN PROJECT (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Simon, a pianist whose most recent credits include work with the Brazilian singer Luciana Souza, turns his focus here toward the country of his birth. His serious sextet consists of the saxophonist Mark Turner, the flutist Marco Granados, the cuatro and guitar player Aquiles Baez, the bassist John Patitucci and the drummer Adam Cruz. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25.(Chinen)

* BOBO STENSON TRIO (Wednesday through March 18) With ''Goodbye'' (ECM), the Swedish pianist Bobo Stenson offered one of last year's most beautifully somber piano trio recordings. Here he plays his only live performances with the same personnel from the album: his longtime bassist Anders Jormin, a fellow Swede, and the august and inscrutable New York drummer Paul Motian. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

YOSVANY TERRY GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Terry, a saxophonist and percussionist, chases contemporary post-bop ideals without fighting the rhythmic pull of his native Cuba; this seven-piece ensemble is only slightly smaller than the one on his excellent new album, ''Metamorphosis'' (Kindred Rhythm), and no less fierce. 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

THE TUBA PROJECT (Tomorrow) Though the name may suggest otherwise, there's only one tuba player in this ensemble; given that it's Bob Stewart, the instrument's greatest improviser, one should be enough. As on the new album ''The Tuba Project'' (CIMP), he's joined by the pianist Lucian Ban, the baritone saxophonist Alex Harding, the tenor saxophonist J. D. Allen and the drummer Derrek Phillips. 9 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

DAVID WEISS (Tonight and tomorrow; Wednesday) This weekend, Mr. Weiss, a literate and industrious trumpeter, leads his post-bop quintet; on Wednesday, he assembles Endangered Species, a 12-piece ensemble stocked with serious talent and dedicated to the music of Wayne Shorter. Tonight and tomorrow at 12:30 a.m. , Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $10, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. Wednesday at 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'AIDA' (Tonight, tomorrow and Sunday) The Amato Opera's reputation is that it conveys the spirit and love of Italian opera, though the full impact is impossible to achieve in a 102-seat theater with a cast that changes at every performance. And against the odds, all the principals at a recent performance of ''Aida'' managed to make it through to the end, demonstrating a true love of the piece, if not always of the pitch. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 2:30, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200; $30; $25 for students and 65+. (Anne Midgette)

'LA BOHEME' (Sunday and Thursday) City Opera has a refreshing take on Puccini's perennial classic, updating it to the eve of World War I and presenting some of its regulars, including Kelly Kaduce and Shannah Timms. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $45 tickets remaining on Sunday; $16 to $120 on Thursday. (Midgette)

'DARKLING' (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Thursday) In an adventurous move, American Opera Projects is presenting a brave and sensitive, if at times frustrating, multimedia work. With a score by Stefan Weisman, ''Darkling'' is an ''operatic fantasia on themes of emotional fragmentation,'' in the words of the director Michael Comlish, who conceived the idea of adapting for the stage Anna Rabinowitz's book-length poem about a restless Polish couple who marry hastily before the invasion of the Nazis. 8 p.m., East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200; $30 to $45. (Anthony Tommasini)

'LA FORZA DEL DESTINO' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) It's tempting to say that ''Forza'' has the most numbingly witless libretto of any Verdi opera, but with such stiff competition, who can say? Giancarlo del Monaco's drab staging, first seen in 1996, offers little help, but the Met has a solid first cast, with Deborah Voigt as Leonora, Salvatore Licitra as Don Alvaro and Mark Delavan as Don Carlo. On Wednesday, Elena Zelenskaya replaces Ms. Voigt, and Mark Rucker takes over for Mr. Delavan. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out tomorrow, $26 to $175 on Wednesday. (Allan Kozinn)

'LUISA MILLER' (Monday) None of Verdi's Schiller operas are very Schiller-like; this one becomes melodrama in the silent-movie sense, with the miller's beautiful daughter, an evil henchman and thwarted love. The Met's casting doesn't preserve much of the fresh-faced innocence of the story, but offers established singers: Veronica Villarroel as Luisa, and Neil Shicoff as Rodolfo. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $175. (Midgette)

'MAZEPPA' (Tonight and Tuesday) Tchaikovsky's epic 1884 opera, about the ruthless 17th-century Ukrainian separatist Ivan Mazeppa, is an anguished, probing and noble work. The Met deserves thanks for presenting its first production of this inexplicably neglected masterpiece, inspiringly conducted by Valery Gergiev. A cast of mostly Russian singers brings conviction and palpable authority, especially the baritone Nikolai Putilin as the wizened Mazeppa, and the soprano Olga Guryakova as his adolescent and impressionable wife. The musical performance is so compelling that you can almost ignore Yuri Alexandrov's jumbled and trashy production, which clutters the opera with symbolism. Tonight at 8, Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $205. (Tommasini)

'THE MOST HAPPY FELLA' (Tonight and tomorrow) Frank Loesser thought of his 1956 masterpiece as a ''musical with a lot of music,'' not as an opera. Still, this sophisticated and disarming musical is a good fit for the New York City Opera, which has opened its spring season with a vibrant and charming production by Philip Wm. McKinley. Paul Sorvino, making his City Opera debut, inhabits the title role of Tony Esposito, the paunchy, insecure but good-hearted Italian immigrant vineyard owner in the Napa Valley of the 1920's. His voice, though, is pretty raw and shaky. He's at his best when he doesn't care about how he sounds and just lets go. The rest of the cast, mostly from the musical theater world, is wonderful. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 1:30 and 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $45 to $120. (Tommasini)

Classical Music

KATE ALDRICH (Monday) Tapping exciting young singers is a tradition the Opera Orchestra of New York hopes to continue. This one is a strong young mezzo-soprano who has already appeared with the group, offering a recital of Berlioz, Britten, Chausson, Dvorak, Mozart and Strauss. 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $35. (Midgette)

ATLANTA SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Tomorrow) Between Lincoln Center's Golijov festival and his recent appearances leading the New York Philharmonic, Robert Spano seems to be spending nearly as much time in New York as with his own orchestra in Atlanta. He gets to have it both ways tomorrow, when he leads the Atlanta Symphony and its chorus in the Verdi Requiem. The vocal soloists are Andrea Gruber, Stephanie Blythe, Frank Lopardo and Greer Grimsley. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $23 to $79. (Kozinn)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) Tonight, the Waterville Trio plays music by Rachmaninoff, Chopin and Lachert. Tomorrow and Sunday, the veteran cellist Colin Carr is joined by the pianist Thomas Sauer for a recital of works by Prokofiev, Beethoven and Chopin. Thursday, the versatile folk-jazz-classical fiddler Mark O'Connor brings his Edgeffect Ensemble (a piano trio) for its first New York performance, featuring his own compositions. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m.; Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35. (Eichler)

JONATHAN BISS AND THE MENDELSSOHN STRING QUARTET (Tonight) The Mendelssohn Quartet opens with the Andante and Scherzo (Op. 81) by its namesake and also plays Beethoven's ''Harp'' in E flat. The superb pianist Jonathan Biss -- whose mother, Miriam Fried, is one of the Mendelssohn players -- joins for the Dvorak A major Piano Quintet. 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949; $40. (Kozinn)

JESSE BLUMBERG (Sunday) The Marilyn Horne Foundation, in its continuing effort to keep the tradition of the song recital flourishing, presents young singers in a monthly series of informal recitals. Mr. Blumberg, a New Jersey-born baritone who recently appeared as Papageno with the Milwaukee Opera Theater, will sing a varied program with the pianist Martin Katz. 3 p.m., St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue and 50th Street, (212) 378-0248; $20; $15 for 65+; free to students. (Tommasini)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Wednesday) The Orion String Quartet performs Mendelssohn's Quartet No. 6 and Ellen Taaffe Zwilich's Quartet No. 2. But the most ear-opening score on the program may be the String Sextet of Erwin Schulhoff, a German-speaking Czech Jew and victim of Nazism, whose fantastically eclectic body of work includes a Dadaist ''Sonata Erotica'' and a cantata setting of ''The Communist Manifesto.'' 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788; $30 to $52. (Eichler)

VLADIMIR FELTSMAN (Tomorrow) The Peoples' Symphony Concerts are a great deal if you're looking to hear big-name performers without breaking the bank. This weekend, the formidable pianist Vladimir Feltsman plays works by Haydn, Beethoven and Schumann. 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, 16th Street and Irving Place, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680; $9 (Eichler).

JERUSALEM SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Sunday) Leon Botstein brings his new out-of-town orchestra to Carnegie Hall. Martinu's ''Memorial to Lidice'' will be the item of interest, along with music by Prokofiev and Strauss. 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800; $20 to $80. (Bernard Holland)

OLGA KERN (Thursday) This dynamic young Russian pianist, who shared a gold at the Van Cliburn Competition in 2001, plays Mendelssohn, Chopin, Rachmaninoff and Liszt. 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $20 to $50. (Eichler)

KIROV ORCHESTRA (Sunday and Monday) To mark the Shostakovich centenary, Lincoln Center has invited Valery Gergiev to lead all 15 symphonies -- no, not in one stretch, though you wouldn't put it past Mr. Gergiev to try. The conductor will split his survey between his two ensembles: the Kirov Orchestra, here this week, and the Rotterdam Philharmonic, arriving next month. Sunday's program features the Symphonies Nos. 1, 2 and 10; Monday brings Nos. 7 and 9. Sunday at 3 p.m., Monday at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $35 to $69. (Eichler)

MARGARET LATTIMORE, STEPHANIE NOVACEK, MARY PHILLIPS, JAKE HEGGIE, RICKY IAN GORDON and EUGENIA ZUCKERMAN (Tuesday) The idea is simpler than the long roster of names would suggest: music by Mr. Gordon and Mr. Heggie, accompanied by the composers on the piano and by a flute, sung by three mezzo-sopranos, with just a soupcon of Ned Rorem and Stephen Sondheim. 7:30 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $32. (Midgette)

ALEXANDER LONQUICH (Wednesday) Though widely respected in Europe, this 45-year-old German-born pianist, now living in Italy, is not well known in the United States. For this, his American recital debut, he plays the New York premiere of Wolfgang Rihm's ''Tombeau'' and works by Mozart, Schumann, Chopin and C. P. E. Bach. 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $35. (Tommasini)

JEANNE MALLOW (Tomorrow) Though this violist comes from a distinguished family of string players (including her grandmother, the violist Lillian Fuchs, and her great-uncle, the violinist Joseph Fuchs), she has built her career on her own, with notable performances and recordings. For this program she will play works by Vivaldi, Schumann, Rachmaninoff and William Keith Rogers, with the pianist Vladimir Valjarevic. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Tommasini)

SOHEIL NASSERI (Tomorrow) This young Californian pianist has both a magnificent technique and an inventive interpretive spirit, qualities that served him well in the early installments of his two-season Beethoven cycle. Mr. Nasseri has chosen not to present the sonatas in chronological order, so his concluding program actually leaves him among relatively early works: Nos. 8 (the ''Pathetique'') through 11, and 16. 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $33 and $45. (Kozinn)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight and tomorrow night) After canceling last week because of bad health, Christoph von Dohnanyi plans to return to conduct a program that includes Bartok's ''Bluebeard's Castle'' with Anne Sofie von Otter and Matthias Goerne. 8, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $26 to $94. (Holland)

ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA (Monday) Bach has been a good venture for this conductorless group, which has been joined this year by the conductorless Bach Choir and started a series of Bach cantatas with members of the choir in the appropriate setting of the Metropolitan Museum's Medieval Sculpture Hall. On the program: Cantatas 18, 157, and 193. 8 p.m., the Metropolitan Museum, (212) 570-3949; $60. (Midgette)

CHARLES ROSEN (Sunday) Mr. Rosen is as renowned for his insightful books and essays as for his probing piano performances, but his playing is by no means bookish: as concerned as he is with the details of style and structure, he is also intent on showing composers as animated by passions and desires, and working within a historical context that includes influences and competitors. Mr. Rosen will explore the influence of Bach and Haydn on Mozart in a program that includes selections from Bach's ''Art of Fugue'' and ''Musical Offering,'' as well as Haydn's Sonata No. 43 and Divertimento in F, and Mozart's Gigue in G and Sonata in A minor. 1:30 p.m. (lecture) and 3 p.m. (recital), 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $35. (Kozinn)

NADJA SALERNO-SONNENBERG (Tuesday) It is the season of Brahms violin sonatas: Less than a month after Christian Tetzlaff played all three in Alice Tully Hall, Ms. Salerno-Sonnenberg tackles the same program on the same stage. Given their radically different performance styles, the overlaps should end there. The pianist Anne-Marie McDermott joins. 8 p.m., Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Eichler)

JORDI SAVALL AND HESPERION XXI (Wednesday and Thursday) A fantastic performer on the viola da gamba and also one of the early-music world's most inventive ensemble leaders, Mr. Savall presides over what promises to be an illuminating master class on Wednesday. The next night, he leads in his flagship ensemble, Hesperion XXI, in variations by Diego Ortiz, Lucas Ruiz de Ribayaz, Jose Marin, Juan Hidalgo, Gaspar Sanz and Antonio Martin. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949; $25 on Wednesday, in Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium; $60 on Thursday, in the Medieval Sculpture Hall (sold out); $25 for a preconcert discussion on Thursday at 6 p.m. with Mr. Savall and David D'Arcy, in the Rogers Auditorium. (Kozinn)

JEAN-YVES THIBAUDET (Wednesday) In the hearts of the French, Ravel and Schumann are kindred spirits. Mr. Thibaudet here plays piano music by both. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $21 to $72. (Holland)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

ATLANTA BALLET (Sunday) One of the oldest indigenous American ballet troupes, Atlanta Ballet will present two dances by John McFall, the company director, and one by Christopher Hampson. 2 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Brooklyn College, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, (718) 951-4500, www.brooklyncenteronline.org; $15 to $30. (Jennifer Dunning)

DANCEBRAZIL (Tonight through Sunday) Two programs explore the rich cultures of Bahia, Brazil, in choreography that merges Afro-Brazilian dance, live music and the martial arts form of capoeira, including a new dance by the company director Jelon Vieira to music by Tuze de Abreu. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, www.joyce.org; $42. (Dunning)

GENE POOL AT DNA (Tonight through Sunday) A clever new name for that old favorite, the dance showcase. This one will feature four different programs of dance by seven artists, who include Isabel Gotkowsky, Earl Mosely and Laurie DeVito. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, between Reade and Chambers Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200; $17. (Dunning)

DONNA SCRO GENTILE/FREESPACE DANCE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Gentile, who has danced with Sean Curran and Murray Louis, will present choreography set to music by Daniel Bernard Roumain, Glen Fittin, Tigger Benford and Peter Jones, performed by the resident company at Montclair State University. 8:30, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $15. (Dunning)

REBECCA KELLY BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow night) The company celebrates its 25th anniversary with performances featuring two guest artists: Jared Matthews of American Ballet Theater and Duncan Cooper of Dance Theater of Harlem. 8, John Jay Theater, 899 10th Avenue, at 58th Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, www.ticketcentral.com; $40. (Jack Anderson)

ASHLEIGH LEITE (Tonight and tomorrow night) ''Autopsy,'' an emotionally charged evening of dance, light and sound, follows the interior journeys of five women. 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-9907; $15. (Anderson)

SUSAN MARSHALL & COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) A skilled choreographic storyteller offers ''Cloudless,'' a collection of danced short stories, some explosive, others quietly intimate. 7:30, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, www.dtw.org; $15 and $25. (Anderson)

* YVONNE MEIER (Thursday) Ms. Meier is returning after eight years to her enjoyably anarchic improvisational choreography. For her new pieces ''this is not a pink pony'' and ''Gogolorez,'' she has enlisted the aid of downtown-dance stars like Miguel Gutierrez, Jennifer Monson, Nami Yamamoto and Jeremy Wade. (Through March 18.) 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, ext. 14, www.thekitchen.org; $12. (Dunning)

* BENJAMIN MILLEPIED & COMPANY (Tuesday through Thursday) One of the smartest and liveliest of New York City Ballet dancers, Mr. Millepied will lead his company, whose roster includes several bright young City Ballet performers and the American Ballet Theater star Gillian Murphy, in a new work by Aszure Barton and in three new dances of his own. They are set to scores that include piano music by Philip Glass, played by Pedja Muzijevic, and accompaniment cued by the dancers' motions. (Through March 19.) The Joyce Theater Gala Celebration on Wednesday will pay tribute to Jerome Robbins and Yourgos Loukos, artistic director of the Ballet l'Opera de Lyon. Tuesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Wednesday at 7 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, www.joyce.org or, for gala tickets, (212) 691-9740; $42 (non-gala); $500 to $1,250 (gala). (Dunning)

* MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP (Tonight, tomorrow and Wednesday) Mr. Morris's 25th-anniversary season is in full swing. Program A, with Mr. Morris conducting Vivaldi's Gloria, plays tonight and tomorrow, and Program B, with his stagings of the operas ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' and ''Dido and Aeneas,'' starts on Wednesday. There is also the first of three programs of small pieces at the Mark Morris Dance Center tomorrow afternoon. And there are all manner of ancillary events, a schedule for which can be found at www.mmdg.org. Tonight, tomorrow night and Wednesday night at 7:30, Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, www.bam.org; $20 to $70. The Solos, Duets and Trios program is tomorrow at 5 p.m., Mark Morris Dance Center, 3 Lafayette Avenue, near Flatbush Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn. (Sold out.) (John Rockwell)

92ND STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL (Tomorrow and Sunday) An annual event concludes with the Francesca Harper Project in ''Modo Fusion,'' a multimedia work that Ms. Harper, a dancer, singer and choreographer, conceived in collaboration with Brian Reeder, a former dancer with American Ballet Theater. Tomorrow night at 8 (followed by a discussion with the writer Margo Jefferson, a former critic for The New York Times), Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m., Ailey Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500, www.92Y.org/harknessfestival; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

THE NETA DANCE COMPANY'S 'A.W.A.R.D. Show!' (Sunday) Another show in a free monthly series featuring dance and talks between artists and audiences. The show features the choreographers Keely Garfield, Deganit Shemy, Ann Liv Young and the duo Ella Ben Aharon and Sahar Javedani, with Neta Pulvermacher moderating. 7 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479. (Dunning)

* STAN WON'T DANCE (Wednesday and Thursday) The United States debut of this promising-looking troupe, led by two former dancers of the DV8 Physical Theater in London. Their piece ''Sinner'' is, according to a news release, ''designed to shatter the limits of physical and emotional endurance.'' (Through March 18.) 8 p.m., Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 477-5288, www.ps122.org; $20; members, $10. (Rockwell)

SUMMERFEST '06: ANDREA HAENGGI/AMDAT (Tonight and tomorrow night) With the aid of dance and video, Andrea Haenggi's ''escalator'' transforms lobbies and moving stairways into four magical theaters, each evoking a mood of its own. 7 and 8:30, World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505 or www.worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Anderson)

* PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The company's annual City Center season continues with repertory programs all week. Of the season's two New York premieres, the angelic ''Spring Rounds'' can be seen tonight and Wednesday night, and the diabolical ''Banquet of Vultures'' is scheduled for tomorrow night, Sunday afternoon and Tuesday night. Tonight, tomorrow night and Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8; tomorrow at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; and Tuesday at 7 p.m.; City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, www.nycitycenter.org; $15 to $80. (Rockwell)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'SURFACE ATTRACTION: PAINTED FURNITURE FROM THE COLLECTION,' through March 26. The remarkable images, abstract patterns and floral motifs that flutter across the 30 or so tables, chairs, cabinets and blanket chests in this beautiful, convention-stretching show confirm that from the late 1600's to the late 1800's, quite a bit of American painting talent and ambition was channeled into the decoration of everyday wood objects. The combination of imagination and utility, of economic means and lush effects, defines the human desire for beauty as hard-wired. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 14. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and cast-off clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to, and settlement in, the United States, from early times to the present, in a garrulous, very personal way. Her works do not lend themselves to easy deciphering, but her magic with materials and her daring compositional imagination draw you in. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn (718) 638-5000. (Grace Glueck)

* Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'FASHION IN COLORS,' through March 26. Drawn from the collection of the Kyoto Costume Institute in Japan, this sumptuous show arranges 68 often lavish Western gowns and ensembles according to the colors of the spectrum and reinforces their progress with a posh, color-coordinated installation design. For an experience of color as color, it is hard to beat, but it also says a great deal about clothing, visual perception and beauty. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400.(Smith)

* Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum: 'David Smith: A Centennial,' through May 14. David Smith is best known for his worst work, bulky sculptures of the ''important'' kind that museums and banks like to buy. Much (though not all) of that material has been excised from this survey in favor of smaller, earlier, nonmonumental pieces that the curator, Carmen Gimenez, presents with plenty of air and light. The result is exemplary as a David Smith experience, an American Modernism experience and a Guggenheim Museum experience. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Holland Cotter)

JEWISH MUSEUM: 'SARAH BERNHARDT: THE ART OF HIGH DRAMA,' through April 2. This exhibition is devoted to the flamboyant 19th-century actress whose name was once invoked by mothers as a warning to melodramatic daughters: ''Who do you think you are, Sarah Bernhardt?'' Its almost overstuffed roster of items includes original Felix Nadar photos of Bernhardt at 20 and the human skull presented to her by Victor Hugo, the costumes she wore as Cleopatra and Joan of Arc, her own accomplished sculptures and relics of lovers and American tours. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200. (Edward Rothstein)

Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Art of Medicine in Ancient Egypt,' through May 7. Egypt was no picnic 5,000 years ago. The average life span was about 40 years. Wild animals were ever-present. Childbirth was perilous. Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness were shots in the dark. Doctors were priests. Medicine was a blend of science, religion and art. The 65 or so objects in this beautiful show functioned as all three. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Cotter)

* MET: Robert Rauschenberg: 'Combines,' through April 2. Big and handsome almost to a fault. There's something weird about seeing once joyfully rude and over-the-top contraptions from the 1950's and 60's lined up like choirboys in church, with their ties askew and shirttails out. But even enshrined, the combines still manage to seem incredibly fresh and odd, almost otherworldly. I thought of a medieval treasury -- all the rich colors and lights and intricate details. The most beautiful tend to be the early ones: large but delicate, with a subtle, fugitive emotional pitch. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'EDVARD MUNCH: THE MODERN LIFE OF THE SOUL,' through May 8. This affecting, full-scale retrospective is the first survey of this Norwegian painter in an American museum in almost 30 years. Its more than 130 oils and works on paper cover Munch's entire career, from 1880 to 1944. It also includes a large selection of prints -- many ingeniously adapted from his oils -- that played an important role in his art. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Glueck)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ON SITE: NEW ARCHITECTURE IN SPAIN,' through May 1. Since the early 1970's, when Spain began to awaken from the isolation of a four-decade dictatorship, Spanish architects have produced designs of unusual depth, often with a firm connection to the land, a sense of humility and a way of conveying continuity with the past while embracing the present. Packed with pretty images and elegant models, this exhibition lacks the scholarly depth you might have hoped for on such a mesmerizing subject. (See above.)(Nicolai Ouroussoff)

The Museum of Modern Art: JOHN SZARKOWSKI: 'PHOTOGRAPHS,' through May 15. A kind of homecoming, this beautiful show surveys the pictures taken by Mr. Szarkowski before and after his influential 29-year term at the helm of the Modern's photography department. The best show him combining the styles of the photographers he has long admired with his native ground -- the architecture and landscape of the upper Midwest. (See above.) (Smith)

P.S. 1: Jessica Stockholder: 'Of Standing Float Roots in Thin Air,' through May 1. A soaring, cannily designed installation -- made of airborne plastic bins, electric lights, orange extension cords and an old armchair topping a wooden tower -- by a sculptor known for orchestrating productive collisions of formalism and consumerism. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. (Ken Johnson)

P.S. 1: 'Ricky Swallow,' through March 20. Extraordinarily realistic and symbolically portentous sculptures carved from wood by Australia's representative to last summer's Venice Biennale, in which three of the five works on view here were included. (See above.) (Johnson)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'LANDSCAPE,' through Sept. 18. With only 20 works dispersed throughout the Whitney's second floor, this startlingly fresh installation of recent art from the museum's collection uses space in an extravagant, exhilarating way, while weaving a cat's cradle of intersecting meanings, emotions, forms and processes through the landscapes of American art and history. It turns out that the less you look at, the more you can see, especially in an arrangement orchestrated by someone who believes that the best tool for coaxing out an artwork's polymorphous content is another piece of art. This someone is Donna De Salvo, the museum's new associate director for programs and curator of collections; her Whitney debut should be seen by anyone interested in the craft and art of a curator. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600. (Smith)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2006: DAY FOR NIGHT,' through May 28. This biennial will provoke much head-scratching by uninitiated visitors. A hermetic take on what has been making waves, it's packaged -- branded might be the better word -- as a show long on collaboration and open-endedness: several shows under one roof, including a revival of the 1960's ''Peace Tower,'' which rises like a Tinker Toy construction from the Whitney courtyard, with contributions by dozens of artists. As a counter to the image of the art world as rich, youth-besotted and obsessed with crafty little nothings, the ethos here is provisional, messy, half-baked, cantankerous, insular -- radical qualities art used to have when it could still call itself radical and wasn't like a barnacle clinging to the cruise ship of pop culture. That was back in the 1970's. And much of what's here (including works by bohemians and other senior eccentrics around then) harks back to that moment. Beauty is hard to come by. Check out, among other things, Paul Chan's digital animation of shadowy objects like cellphones and bicycles, floating upward, Wizard of Oz-like, while bodies tumble down, the work cast as if it were light from a tall window slanting onto the floor of a dark room. And also Pierre Huyghe's film, shot in Antarctica and Central Park. It's really gorgeous: crosscut between day and night, fiction and reality, it encapsulates the show's operative but ultimately airy metaphor about the slippery state of art now. (''Day for Night'' is the biennial's first-ever title, after the Francois Truffaut film.) 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (800) 944-8639 or www.whitney.org. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: Uptown

Tony Cragg: 'Five Bottles' In the early 1980's, this eminent English sculptor made flat, mosaiclike works out of found colored plastic objects and fragments. This show presents a set of five wall-works, each representing a different giant colored bottle composed of toys, combs, cigarette lighters and other pieces of ordinary commercial detritus. Vivian Horan, 35 East 67th Street, (212) 517-9410, through April 21. (Johnson)

Jim Shaw: 'My Mirage 1986- 91' This amazingly inventive California-based artist first became widely known for a series of about 170 works, all measuring 17 by 14 inches, that chronicles the life of a white suburban boy named Billy, from innocent youth to druggy degradation to born-again salvation. The 30 pieces from the series in this show variously imitate comic strips, acid-rock posters, thrift store paintings, comic greeting cards and many other pop culture forms. Skarstedt, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, (212) 737-2060, through April 1. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

'MetLife' The curator and publisher Geoffrey Young has organized an enthralling show of small works by 12 artists who favor exacting craftsmanship and surrealistic imagination. Some, like Oona Ratcliffe, Cary Smith and Patricia Fabricant, tend toward abstraction; others, like Chris Zitelli and Morgan Bulkeley, create dreamlike narrative and symbolic images. Morgan Lehman, 317 10th Avenue, near 28th Street, (212) 268-6699, through April 1. (Johnson)

* William Nicholson Though less well-known than his son, the British abstract painter Ben Nicholson, Sir William Nicholson was a successful artist in his day. The mostly small landscapes, portraits and Chardinesque still lifes in this beautiful show offer transporting fusions of paint and imagery. Paul Kasmin, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474, through March 25. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

* 'Do You Think I'm Disco' There's a big story to be told about disco culture of the 1970's, which had roots in rhythm and blues, African-American church music, 1960's drug culture, gay liberation and all manner of anti-establishment politics. This modest group show touches on all of these elements, however glancingly and unsystematically, by considering the trickle-down effect of discomania on some new art today. Longwood Art Gallery@Hostos, 450 Grand Concourse, at 149th Street, Mott Haven, the Bronx, (718) 518-6728, through March 18. (Cotter)

* 'THE DOWNTOWN SHOW: THE NEW YORK ART SCENE, 1974-1984' The real down-and-dirty downtown art scene, when the East Village bloomed, punk and new wave rock assailed the ears, graffiti spread like kudzu and heroin, along with extreme style, raged, is the subject of this wild and woolly show. It's a humongous time warp of more than 450 paintings, sculptures, drawings, photographs, videos, posters, ephemera and things in between by artists, writers, performers, musicians and maestros of mixed media, from a photograph of the transvestite Candy Darling as she posed on her deathbed to a small, painted sculpture made of elephant dung by David Hammons. With so many clashing ideologies, points of view and attitudes toward art-making, this no-holds-barred hodgepodge generates the buzz and stridency of, say, Canal Street on payday. New York University, Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, (212) 998-6780; and Fales Library, 70 Washington Square South, (212) 988-2596, Greenwich Village; through April 1. (Glueck)

* Anya Gallaccio: 'One Art' The viscerally poetic single work occupying Sculpture Center's spacious main gallery is a 50-foot weeping cherry tree that was cut up and reassembled in the gallery, where it is held in place by steel cables and bolts. Sculpture Center, 44-19 Purves Street, at Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 361-1750, through April 3. (Johnson)

THE STUDIO VISIT The studio visit, a time-honored ritual that everyone in the art world has both endured and learned from, is taken to its limit in Exit Art's latest exhibition marathon. Each of the 160 mostly short videos represents one artist's idea of, play on, or substitute for, a studio visit. It is a show that often cries out for a fast-forward button, but there are some notable gems -- for example, by Joyce Pensato, Cynthia von Buhler, Ida Applebroog, Bruce Pearson, Lance Wakeling, Taylor McKimens, Paul Wirhun, Elisabeth Kley, Christy Gast and Kim Jones. Exit Art, 475 10th Avenue, at 36th Street, Manhattan, (212) 966-7745, through March 25. (Smith)

'Zoo Story' A clay gorilla by Daisy Youngblood, a bronze she-wolf by Kiki Smith, a flock of concrete sheep by Francoise-Xavier Lalanne and works about animals by more than 20 other artists, including John Baldessari, Katharina Fritsch, Ross Bleckner and Rebecca Horn, turn the first floor of this sleek, three-story private museum into a diverting menagerie. Fisher Landau Center for Art, 38-27 30th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 937-0727, through June 12. (Johnson)

Last Chance

Stan Brodsky 'Evidence of Things' At 80, this painter, based in Huntington, N.Y., is making abstractions of uncommon liveliness and material richness. With their craggy, calligraphic forms glowing and flickering against fields of lush, generously applied color, Mr. Brodsky's paintings evoke the idea of an Abstract Expressionist who traded in his angst for hedonistic jouissance. June Kelly, 591 Broadway, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212) 226-1660; closes Tuesday. (Johnson)

* DAVID DUPUIS/JESSICA JACKSON HUTCHINS In complementary shows, Mr. Dupuis cultivates his Surrealist-Symbolist penchant for small, visionary landscapes, while branching out into grotesquely detailed self-portraits, and Ms. Hutchins offers macabre spoofs of ceramics, social rituals and craftsmanship, with crudely made tea bowls and serving platters perched on topographically suggestive pedestals. Derek Eller Gallery, 615 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-6411; through tomorrow. (Smith)

* RICHARD GREAVES: ANARCHITECTURE; MARIO DEL CURTO: PHOTOGRAPHS Mr. del Curto's sympathetic black-and-white photographs introduce Mr. Greaves's bristling huts and environments, built during the last decade in the wilds of Canada. Materials include parts of salvaged barns and farm houses joined with baling wire into sagging, swaying, psychologically potent forms that qualify as outsider architecture, site-specific installation art and settings for fairy tales -- especially those about witches. Andrew Edlin Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9723; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* DAINA HIGGINS In an art world knee-deep in feats of realism, these small paintings of urban scenes stand out. They are made with spray paint and stencils, based on photographs taken by the artist, a technique that gives the gritty subjects a transcendental immateriality, as if the world were made of varying tones of light. Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-9666; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

Jerry Kearns: 'Forever More' For many years Mr. Kearns has been making illustrative paintings combining Pop-Surrealist style, leftist politics and anti-consumerist social commentary, with humor and obviousness often battling to a draw. His new paintings feature muscle-bound Jesus figures, hysterical hermaphrodites, creepy children, magical birds, fast-food products and heavenly blue skies. Michael Steinberg, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-5770; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

* Studio Museum in Harlem: 'FREQUENCY,' Despite some marked unevenness, this display of new and recently emerged talent confirms the current vitality of black art, contemporary art and midsize New York museums. Names to look out for include Kalup Linzy, Leslie Hewitt, Shinique Smith, Demetrius Oliver, Nick Cave, Mickalene Thomas and Michael Queenland, but don't stop there. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500; closes Sunday. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- Far left, various works by Matthew Monahan are on view at the ''Whitney Biennial 2006: Day for Night,'' Page 27. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
CLASSICAL MUSIC -- Left, Jordi Savall, on viola da gamba, leads his ensemble, Hesperion XXI, at the Metropolitan Museum, Page 27. (Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times)
 MOVIES -- Above, Dave Chappelle stars in Michel Gondry's new documentary, ''Dave Chappelle's Block Party,'' Page 25. (Photo by D. Lee/Rogue Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); COMEDY FILMS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); MUSIC (77%); POP & ROCK (72%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (66%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (66%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



184 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Airline Pilots Still Flying, but No Longer Quite So High 

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
Within the world of aviation, airline pilots used to be one step down from astronauts. Now they feel one step up from bus drivers.
 With half the seats in the nation's airliners run by companies either in bankruptcy or limping out of it, even the pilots at the top -- the ones who are within a few years of mandatory retirement at 60, flying the big planes and earning top dollar -- are facing a new world.
Their pay and pensions have been cut, and they work more hours to earn them. In another concession to the airlines, their days are interrupted more than ever by long hours of unpaid idleness.
 They say they try hard not to let these things break their concentration or interfere with their work, flying passengers by the scores or hundreds, flawlessly, around the country and the world. They have piloted their planes to a record 40 million safe takeoffs and landings across the country in the last five years, whether the airline was solvent, bankrupt or just squeaking by. 
 Still, the boardroom blues are working their way into the cockpit.
 ''My philosophy right now is, I just go to work,'' said an American Airlines captain who, before his company's troubles, loved to fly. On one recent trip, he flew a 6 a.m. flight from Newark to Miami, then piloted a plane from Miami to Los Angeles the next evening, then a flight back to Newark, accumulating 15 paid hours for three days on the road. 
 The Federal Aviation Administration limits commercial pilots on domestic flights to eight hours a day, measured from pushback until arrival at the gate. The limits are 30 hours in seven days, 100 hours a month and 1,000 hours a year. The airlines do not exceed those limits but many now schedule much closer to them. 
 The F.A.A. rules do not address the amount of time between flights, so a pilot could be in uniform 12 hours or more to accumulate the day's hours. Eight hours of rest time every 24 hours is required, however. And pilots feel acutely the difference between getting a month's work in 14 days versus 18 days. 
 ''They kind of bleed us out,'' the American Airlines captain said, on condition he not be identified for fear of losing his job. Pilots for major airlines said they expected to be fired if they were publicly candid on the new challenges of their jobs. 
 One veteran United Airlines captain, who laments that when he retires in a few years his pension will be about one-fourth what he expected, said he had to shut it out of his mind to prevent the distraction from affecting his work. 
 After a recent takeoff from California for the long flight across the Pacific, that was all his first officer wanted to talk about. The captain said he snapped back: ''You know what, can we not talk about United Airlines? All it does is cause me frustration and anger and there's nothing I can do about it. It churns my stomach.''
 So the two, flying in one of the world's most automated, advanced airplanes, talked about a hobby they had in common: flying single-engine planes on their days off.
 The dissatisfaction at the top has not changed some basics of the field: young people still dream of flying, and people who fly small planes still aspire to fly bigger ones. Legions of laid-off pilots hope to be hired back, even at reduced pay levels.
 ''They must love it,'' said Arnold I. Barnett, a professor of management science at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He said airline pilots were reacting with more fortitude than other professionals might in the same circumstances.
 ''I cannot fathom how faculty would react if M.I.T. abolished tenure, increased teaching loads and cut salaries by 35 percent because market conditions had changed,'' he said. 
 But senior airline pilots, in dozens of interviews, spoke about feeling depressed and struggling not to let it affect their performance. 
 Academics have noticed a change. ''The pilots are not a happy group right now,'' said Paul S. Fischbeck, a professor of engineering and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. 
 Dr. Fischbeck, who flew in the Navy and has colleagues who went on to fly for the airlines, said that the change in financial circumstances and job security were good reasons to be unhappy. 
 But Dr. Fischbeck and others pointed out that the industry culture is such that pilots must face the hardship on their own. Other workers with health plans might seek professional counseling. With pilots licensed by the F.A.A., however, ''as soon as you sign up for it, it's on your record, and you're toast.''
 A US Airways pilot echoed that sentiment: ''If it gets reported to the F.A.A., you can forget it, you're not coming back to work, until you go through a lot. The system requires us to deal with it ourselves. That makes it very difficult to go through what we just went through.''
 Maxine E. Lubner, director of the Aviation Institute of York College, at the City University of New York, said that eroding morale, along with problems like ''the distraction of not knowing where your pension is,'' could not help safety. 
 Neither could working longer hours, which pilots for many major airlines are now doing because of contract concessions both in the number of hours flown and the number of hours they can be made to wait on the ground between flights. Some are also flying more hours to offset their pay losses. 
 ''I would say morale and attitude are all in that mix,'' Dr. Lubner said. The morale effect is probably small, she said, but ''we know fatigue in itself will create poor attitude and lack of motivation and irritability.''
 ''And there's no question that something that's a distraction is a safety threat,'' she said.
 But she agreed there was no empirical evidence supporting that theory. Statistically, the airlines are in one of their safest periods ever, with about one fatal accident for every 15 million flights. 
 ''With the economic turbulence that's being experienced by U.S. carriers, bankruptcy, the price of oil on every page, it's a testament to the aviation industry stakeholders and the U.S. government that we are reaching those safety levels despite enormous challenges,'' said Marion C. Blakey, the F.A.A. administrator, in a speech to an aviation safety conference that her agency organized last fall. 
 There are some warning signs, however. NASA recently told the F.A.A. of numerous reports of errors by ground personnel, a category of worker that has had heavy turnover. It also warned of reports of planes loading too little fuel.
 A Northwest pilot described his own forgetfulness. ''There are certain things I'm supposed to do to set up my part of the cockpit,'' he said. ''We do the stuff first, then go back with the checklist and double-check it,'' he said. And in double-checking, he once found a set of switches he was certain he had set, but had not. ''I thought I had turned those on,'' he recalled thinking. ''I hadn't; I just wasn't as sharp. I'd lost my edge.''
 Airline executives say they do not know how to measure the effect of morale. At US Airways, Carlo Bertolini, a spokesman, said, ''No one's going to deny that US Airways employees have been through a tough time, with layoffs, changes in work rules and steps lowering costs. A lot of these sacrifices came from employees.''
 But ''we all have a stake in the safety of the airline,'' he added. ''We're definitely confident that all employees always have safety at the top of their mind.'' 
 Pilots say the same but add that the change in schedules often means more fatigue. ''You can feel yourself getting to a point where you're beginning to make more little mistakes,'' a senior captain at US Airways said. 
 ''Most of the mistakes are caught very quickly, and most are very minor errors,'' he said. But ''at that level of fatigue, after weeks or months of this without a break, it's easy to make major mistake.''
 Not everyone agrees that the longer working schedule is a problem. 
 ''It's hard for me to feel sorry for them,'' said Capt. Jeffrey R. Hefner, the safety chairman of the union that represents pilots at Southwest Airlines, who have always flown longer hours than pilots at older airlines. 
 ''They're a bunch of spoiled brats,'' he said. ''Historically, this has been a really cushy job once you get to the majors. You make a lot of money and you don't have to fly a lot. But there had to be a market balancing at some point.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pilots are trying to adjust to reduced pay and pensions and tougher work rules caused by industry problems. (Photo by Nam Y. Huh/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



185 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Where 'Buy Low and Sell High' Are a Co-op's Fighting Words 

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
Morningside Gardens is a rarity in real-estate-mad Manhattan, a co-op apartment complex that middle-class New Yorkers can afford. Apartments sell for a fraction of what they would bring on the open market. For the chance to live free of a crushing mortgage and in a community that is unusually mixed, residents accept a trade-off: they give up the possibility of making a killing when they sell. 
 But the feverish real estate market is finally testing the convictions of the residents of Morningside Gardens, a cluster of six brick towers on a grassy expanse of the gentrifying borderland between Harlem and Morningside Heights. Later this month, the residents of the nearly 1,000 apartments are scheduled to vote on whether to amend their bylaws to let apartment sale prices triple immediately and be adjusted every year thereafter.
The protracted fight over what is known as ''going to market'' has pitted neighbor against neighbor in this longtime left-leaning redoubt, said to have once been the only racially mixed middle-class co-op in the city. There have been charges of fear-mongering, profiteering, reverse snobbery and greed. The place is awash in warring factions' fliers: A declaration of a state of emergency! A home is not an investment! Vote to win, or perish! 
 New York real estate has a habit of challenging the principles of even its most righteous denizens. Who has not found himself hating the guts of the innocuous neighbor whose only crime was being lucky enough to buy when the market was in the tank? Who has not groped to reconcile his sudden status as a real estate millionaire, at least on paper, with his insistence that he is really, still, just middle class?
 So it is at Morningside Gardens. ''I protested the Vietnam War and marched for civil rights,'' said Barbara Linder, who supports a proposal to raise sale prices at the co-op to 80 percent of the market rate. ''I would like nothing better than to turn back the clock to a time when a concern for social justice was an agenda topic that had any weight. But it's not realistic to think that we can be an oasis of 1972 prices and philosophies in today's world. It's self-destructive.''
 But Phyllis E. Johnson, one of the ''mud people'' who arrived in 1957, when the complex had just opened and landscaping was still in the future, takes an opposing view. She and her husband, John N. Johnson, a musician, paid $3,300 for their apartment. She says prices should go up only as much as is absolutely necessary. 
 ''We built a community that is really a national resource in terms of the diversity of the people who live here -- the intergenerational, interfaith, inter-everything,'' she said. ''To change that basic concept too much would be as much of a disaster as tearing down Grand Central station. To honor the cooperative spirit, where you deny yourselves things for the betterment of the whole -- that is a concept that we're in danger of losing.''
 Under the existing rules, the maximum sale price for a three-bedroom apartment with a balcony at Morningside Gardens is set at roughly $200,000, about a quarter of its estimated open-market value. A two-bedroom apartment can be had for as little as $114,000, but there are long waiting lists for all the apartments. Prices have risen just 62 percent since 1994, according to the treasurer -- while apartment prices nearby are said to have tripled and quadrupled.
 The struggle at Morningside Gardens exemplifies one of the problems facing New York and other big cities as they scramble to preserve moderate-income housing in a real estate market that works against it: How to balance the need for low- and moderate-income people to build equity against the need to keep homes affordable for whoever comes next?
 ''If you don't allow enough equity to be built, you're standing in the way of low- and moderate-income people achieving the American dream,'' said Shaun Donovan, commissioner of New York City's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''On the other hand, the more you allow their equity to grow through a higher sales price, the less affordable it is for the next buyer.''
 Morningside Gardens is not the first limited-equity co-op in New York City to contemplate going to market. Among the handful of others that have done the same in recent years, some have ended up voting in favor, others against. City officials say such conversions typically have a minimal effect on real estate taxes.
 Last May, a committee appointed by the co-op board's president recommended raising the maximum sale prices to 80 percent of market value, and proposed broadening the so-called flip tax, imposed by the co-op on some sellers, to capture 15 percent of every seller's profit. Though the sale prices would be adjusted annually, the committee stopped short of recommending open-market pricing because, it said, it wanted to preserve the co-op's middle-class tradition.
 It said the price rise is needed to generate enough revenue from the flip tax to cover what it said were $10 million in upcoming capital improvements; the tax revenue would protect residents from assessments and maintenance hikes. And, the committee said, older residents would now be able to afford to move elsewhere -- say, near their children -- freeing big, underutilized apartments for younger families that need more space. 
 Some residents, however, want full market rates.
 ''I don't feel that I'm greedy because I want to sell it at an open-market price,'' said Rose Voisk, a retired administrative assistant who emigrated from Yugoslavia in 1968 and bought her studio for $9,500 in 1990. ''This is what capitalism is all about. In a free country, sometimes you're lucky and you get the real estate price at the low rate and then you can sell it at the high rate. It's just a matter of freedom.''
 Others say 80 percent of market rates is too high. They say the process that led to the proposal submitted to the residents was undemocratic and they have yet to see convincing proof that $10 million in repairs to the complex are even needed. They also argue that tripling the sale prices would change the makeup of Morningside Gardens, bordered by West 123rd and La Salle Streets, Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue.
 Christine D'Onofrio, an economist who lives there with her husband and daughter, described the current residents as teachers, city government workers, employees of church organizations and philanthropies, ''not these big-money career paths.''
 ''It's the kind of families that are losing every foothold in New York City,'' she said. ''This is one of the last stops before you're totally off the island of Manhattan. For some of us, it was a question of, 'Can we pull the ladder up behind us that we managed to get in on?' For others, they didn't care.''
 So that group formed its own committee, did its own study and presented a counterproposal -- for a one-time, 60 percent increase in sale prices, with annual increases of about 7 percent; flip tax rates pegged to length of ownership, and a buy-in fee for all outside buyers. They then collected enough signatures to get their proposal placed on the upcoming ballot.
 Now fur is flying. There have been charges that members of that committee have second homes in the country. (There are no income requirements for admission to Morningside Gardens.) And there are dark forecasts of an influx of investment bankers and high-flying fat cats. ''I don't think that Donald Trump is looking to live on 123rd Street across from the General Grant Houses,'' Ms. Linder retorts. ''So drop the holier-than-thou attitude.''
 On March 27, the Morningside Gardens shareholders are to vote in a special meeting. Each of the nearly 1,000 apartments has a single vote. To change the bylaws, a proposal must have the support of a majority. 
 ''What's incredibly interesting about this story is the light it sheds on the psychological impact of this amazing real estate market on New Yorkers,'' said Ian Van Tuyl, a 39-year-old writer and stay-at-home father who, with his wife, paid $126,000 in 2003 for their apartment. (''A two-bedroom with nine closets. That's all you have to say.'') Mr. Van Tuyl, who opposes the increase, added, ''With the stories that we hear, and the riches earned on real estate, who doesn't wish they had a piece of that?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tenants at Morningside Gardens are voting on whether to raise sale prices to a point near the market rate.
 Phyllis E. and John N. Johnson moved into Morningside Gardens in 1957. They want to keep prices low. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (60%); VIETNAM WAR (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Cooperatives; Morningside Gardens (NYC); Housing

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



186 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Report Foresees No Crisis Over Aging Generation's Health

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

 BODY:
The next few decades will see an explosion in the percentage of Americans over the age of 65, but the economic and social impact of this baby boomer sunset may be gentler than had been feared because of a significant drop in the percentage of older people with disabilities, a new federal study has concluded.
 Released yesterday, the United States Census Bureau's 243-page report on the aging population, among the largest and most comprehensive on the subject that the bureau has ever compiled, showed that today's older Americans are markedly different from previous generations. They are more prosperous, better educated and healthier, and those differences will only accelerate as the first boomers hit retirement age in 2011. 
 ''Older Americans, when compared to older Americans even 20 years ago, are showing substantially less disability, and that benefit applies to men and to women,'' said Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging, on whose behalf the study was conducted. ''All of this speaks to an improved quality of life.''
 What this suggests, Dr. Hodes said, is that while many of these older Americans will eventually become disabled, it will happen later with more of the years beyond 65 free of disability -- an increase in what scientists call health expectancy.
 And while, as baby boomers age, the growing ranks of the infirm will become a substantial drain on government coffers and devour health care resources, the total impact may not be as devastating as once feared, Dr. Hodes said. 
 The study showed that the percentage of those over 65 who had a disability that the report described as ''a substantial limitation in a major life activity'' fell to 19.7 percent in 1999 from 26.2 percent in 1982. There were signs the trend would continue.
 Richard Suzman, head of the Behavioral and Social Research Program for the National Institute on Aging, said there was disagreement among those analyzing the results about why this drop occurred. But they assumed, he said, that it was at least partly a result of today's older Americans' being better educated and more prosperous than previous generations.
 ''People today have a better health expectancy than did their predecessors,'' Mr. Suzman said. ''Education, in particular, is a particularly powerful factor in both life expectancy and health expectancy, though truthfully, we're not quite sure why.''
 Dr. Hodes cautioned that the growing obesity rate in America may neutralize the positive trend. 
 The new study, ''65+ in the United States: 2005,'' involved no fresh research but was an effort to draw together all of the relevant information on America's aging population from nearly a dozen federal agencies, said Charles Louis Kincannon, director of the Census Bureau. 
 ''The report tells us that the face of America is changing,'' he said.
 In 1900, Mr. Kincannon said, there were 120,000 Americans over age 85, about 0.1 percent of the population. Today there are more than four million, about 1 percent. Indeed, Mr. Kincannon said, it is the nation's fastest-growing age group.
 In July 2003, there were 35.9 million Americans over the age of 65, about 12 percent of the population. By 2030, federal officials predict, there will be 72 million older people, about 20 percent of Americans.
 And they will be a substantially different class of people than previous generations. In 1959, 35 percent of people over 65 lived in poverty. By 2003, that figure had dropped to 10 percent. The proportion of older Americans with a high school diploma rose to 71.5 percent in 2003 from 17 percent in 1950.
 All of these trends are expected to accelerate, and soon. ''The future older population is likely to be better educated than the current older population, especially when baby boomers start reaching age 65,'' the report concluded. ''Their increased levels of education may accompany better health, higher incomes and more wealth, and consequently higher standards of living in retirement.''
 And as younger workers become scarcer, many companies will have to find ways to convince their older workers to stay on the job longer, Mr. Kincannon said.
 The report was not all good news.
 Divorce is on the rise among older Americans, the study found, leading to concerns that broken families combined with low birth rates among baby boomers may create a situation where fewer people are available or willing to help care for their aging relatives, pushing even more of the burden onto government.
 Also, the drop in poverty has not happened across all population groups. ''There are subgroups among the old who still have fairly high levels of poverty, including older women, and especially those who live alone,'' said Victoria A. Velkoff, chief of the aging studies branch at the Census Bureau.
 Ms. Velkoff said that while the aging population was more diverse than previous generations, poverty hit blacks and Hispanics, especially women, harder than whites. While 10 percent of older white women lived in poverty in 2003, 21.4 percent of older Hispanic women and 27.4 percent of older black women did.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a study on the economic and social impact of the growth in the number of Americans over age 65 paraphrased imprecisely from an observation by Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging. Although he acknowledged in response to a question that there is some public concern that older Americans would drain government coffers and devour health care resources, he himself did not express that fear. He said decreasing disability rates among older Americans could blunt such economic effects.
An article on Friday about a study on the economic and social impact of the growth in the number of Americans over age 65 paraphrased imprecisely from an observation by Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging. Although he acknowledged in response to a question that there is some public concern that older Americans would drain government coffers and devour health care resources, he himself did not express that fear. He said decreasing disability rates among older Americans could blunt such economic effects.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Older and Healthier''Graph shows the percentage of the United States population 65 and older (since 1900) and the percentage of people over 65 who are chronically disabled (since 1982).(Source by Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ELDER HEALTH (89%); TRENDS (89%); AGING (89%); CENSUS (89%); AGING TRENDS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (69%); OBESITY (65%) Aged; Medicine and Health; Retirement; Handicapped; Aged

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (56%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



187 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Post-Soviet Enclave Losing Lifeblood Trade 

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 9 

 BODY:
The government of a self-declared republic in Eastern Europe said Thursday that it was facing an economic and human crisis under pressure from Ukraine and the West to halt its unregistered trade.
 The region, Transnistria, is within the internationally recognized borders of Moldova but has rejected that nation's authority since the Soviet Union collapsed. It is also bordered by Ukraine.
 Transnistria fought a brief war with Moldova in 1992. In the years since, it has been one of three breakaway enclaves in the post-Soviet space actively supported by Russia. It has developed an extensive manufacturing sector that is widely believed to be run by corrupt officials and members of the Russian and Ukrainian business elite. Its exports include metallurgical products, electronics, textiles, wines and spirits. 
 The narrow Transnistria enclave, about the size of Rhode Island, survives principally on exports through Ukrainian territory. But since March 3, Ukraine has refused to accept exports from the region unless they are approved by the Moldovan customs authorities.
 The new rules have come at the prodding of Moldova, the United States and the European Union, which seek to have Transnistria's businesses comply with international trade standards. 
 Moldova has also been seeking to have the region's businesses register in Moldova. The reasons for the timing have not been publicly disclosed, but Ukraine's actions follow the change of its government, with the inauguration last year of President Viktor A. Yushchenko, and a bitter dispute with Russia over gas prices.
 The political leaders in the enclave have reacted with outrage, refusing to recognize Moldovan rules and stopping train traffic at its border.
 ''As of today there has been no movement of cargo at the border for six days,'' said Vitaly V. Yankovsky, a deputy foreign minister of Transnistria. ''No transit. No export. No import.''
 Most automobile transit has also ceased. Igor N. Smirnov, the enclave's leader, who uses the title president, has said the territory is under blockade.
 The standoff has caused hardships, Mr. Yankovsky said. He said that factories had slowed work and sent many workers home on forced vacations, and that prices for consumer goods had begun to climb. 
 He also said that if the trade did not resume, the enclave, home to several hundred thousand people, could run out of food and medicine in the spring. ''We are moving toward a humanitarian catastrophe,'' he said.
 Ukraine has dismissed the complaints, noting that the region can simply comply with Moldovan law and then trade as it pleases. The so-called blockade, Ukrainian officials say, is self-imposed.
 ''Unfortunately, Transnistria took advantage of this situation and turned a technical problem into a political one,'' said Dmitry I. Tkach, Ukraine's representative to negotiations between the region and Moldova, which have been going on for more than a year. ''You can see their hysteria on the rise.''
 Moldova has also criticized Transnistria's reaction, saying Ukraine's position could help the enclave improve its image and allow access to new trading partners.
 The dispute has underscored anew a peculiar problem remaining from the Soviet Union's disintegration. Transnistria has long been a bizarre and unregulated corner of Europe, a place that has lovingly preserved Soviet symbols and statues and affects a reverence for Communist times. 
 Beneath the show of Soviet nostalgia, however, has been a markedly capitalistic streak. The region contains much of the heavy industry in what would be Moldova's territory. Moldova portrays the region as an offshore economic zone in the hands of smugglers and gangsters and has accused it of illegal arms manufacture and sales, including black-market sales of munitions left from Soviet times. Transnistria has denied involvement in the arms trade.
 The efforts to bring a modicum of regulation over the region have also drawn fresh lines of difference between Russia and the West.
 Russia, which holds the rotating chairmanship of the Group of 8 industrial nations and seeks accession to the World Trade Organization, has denounced the enforcement of Moldovan custom rules, leading critics to suggest that it remains an immature economic partner blind to the conventions of international commerce.
 With the dispute stalled and the trains idled, Transnistria has been organizing demonstrations while calling for new talks and a suspension of the custom rules. But negotiators so far have been unimpressed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Transnistrians protested new customs rules at the Ukrainian border, carrying placards reading, ''Ukraine, Do Not Betray Your Citizens.'' (Photo by Vadim Denisov/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Map of Moldova highlighting Transnistria Region: Transnistria rejects Moldova's authority and is backed by Russia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECHNOLOGY REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); CORRUPTION (55%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (54%) United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%) C J Chivers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UKRAINE (97%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%) Moldova; Transnistria (Moldova); Russia; Ukraine; Moldova

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



188 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; WEB; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Employers Added 243,000 Jobs in February

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
U.S. employers added a stronger-than-forecast 243,000 jobs in February and average hourly pay posted the largest annual increase in 4-1/2 years, the Labor Department said Friday in a report likely to keep inflation concerns simmering. 
 The monthly report showed the unemployment rate edged up to 4.8 percent from 4.7 percent in January. Economists had forecast that 210,000 jobs would be created in February and that the unemployment rate would hold steady.
The February job gain followed a revised 170,000 new jobs in January that had originally been reported as 193,000. Employers have increased their payrolls every month for the past 2-1/2 years, an indication that economic growth is vigorous enough to keep policy-makers on edge about the possibility of inflationary wage and price rises.
 Average hourly earnings grew 0.3 percent during February, in line with expectations, but in the 12 months through February pay rose by 3.5 percent, which department officials said was the highest annual increase since September 2001.
 The report showed that another 41,000 construction jobs were added in February, on top of 55,000 in January. Some economists had expected hiring for construction to ease more sharply last month with a return to colder weather after an exceptionally mild January. Manufacturing employment, by contrast, declined 1,000 in February after growing 7,000 in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006



189 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: DP World and U.S. Trade: A Zero-Sum Game

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Louis Uchitelle contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
DP World's decision yesterday to transfer a handful of American port terminals, rather than chilling interest in investing in the United States, may actually have made it safer for foreigners by relieving some of the political pressure that was building up against them.
 But as part of a pattern of other antiforeign actions in Washington, fears remain that the United States is becoming a less welcoming place for investment from overseas. 
''We need a net inflow of capital of $3 billion a day to keep the economy afloat,'' said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., a former trade official in the Reagan administration who is president of the Economic Strategy Institute. ''Yet all of the body language here is 'go away.' ''
 At least initially, those who support increased globalization were relieved that Dubai appears to have backed away from a confrontation with Congress.
 ''It is our hope that this relieves some of the political pressure,'' said Nancy McLernon, senior vice president of the Organization for International Investment, a lobbying group in Washington representing the United States subsidiaries of foreign multinationals. 
 ''People were starting to question the benefits of foreign investment,'' she said. ''We haven't seen this since the Japanese bought the Rockefeller Center.''
 DP World's takeover was a special case: a state-owned company from the Middle East buying a sensitive American asset. Most multinationals that invest in the United States come from Western industrial democracies and are unlikely to be subject to such scrutiny. 
 The flap over the ports acquisition alone is unlikely to make a consequential dent in foreign investment flows into the country, most economists agree.
 ''I don't think this is going to have a major effect on capital flows into the United States,'' said Ben Stapleton, a partner specializing in mergers and acquisitions at the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell in New York. ''It will just affect a deal at the margin every once in a while.''
 Indeed, while protectionist sentiment in Congress is never far from the surface, so far it has done little to damage the intricate web of cross-border business deals that are going on just about every day. Last summer, animosity against the effort by a state-owned Chinese oil company to buy the American oil company Unocal helped force China to retreat. But there has been no letup in investment flows into the United States in its wake.
 Foreign companies plowed $38.8 billion worth of direct investment into the United States in the third quarter of last year, according to government statistics, more than two and a half times the amount recorded in the second quarter and roughly 9 percent more than in the period in 2004.
 Foreign investment in American financial markets is even stronger. Last year, capital flows into Treasury bonds, equities in American companies and other securities totaled more than $1 trillion, 14 percent more than in 2004. Much of it came from China and the Middle East.
 Some economists argue that it is good that foreign investment in sensitive areas be subject to more scrutiny.
 ''There are some assets that are absolutely essential to U.S. security and today's action reflects the House and Senate actually drawing a line,'' said Robert E. Scott, a senior economist and trade specialist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute. 
 ''The question,'' he added, ''is whether or not this is going to be a one-time event or whether we are going to look more carefully at foreign acquisitions, particularly in the military sector.''
 But some analysts warn that further political hostility against foreign companies buying American assets could boomerang against the United States.
 ''I think it is very dangerous to enter a new world in which every purchase of an American asset by a foreign entity is scrutinized by the government,'' said Kevin Hassett, director of economic policies at the conservative American Enterprise Institute in Washington. 
 ''It could make U.S. assets less attractive to foreign buyers because they wonder whether there will be potential future buyers if they decide later to sell what they have purchased.''
 Some observers worry that nationalist sentiment seems to be on the rise not just in the United States but in other prosperous countries where economic anxieties are present.
 The attempt by Mittal Steel, a European company headed by an Indian executive who lives in London, to buy Arcelor, a Luxembourg steel company with many workers in France, is coming under intense scrutiny. 
 In Britain, officials have worried over the interest of Gazprom, the Russian government-controlled oil monopoly, in the British gas company Centrica.
 ''It may be well part of a global backlash against globalization,'' said Michael Grenfell, a partner at the law firm Norton Rose in London. ''America could usually be relied on to champion free trade. If that changes, things could get quite chilly.''
 In the United States, the political flap over the ports deal is still not over. Ms. McLernon noted that members of Congress had submitted some two dozen bills in the last few weeks aimed at changing the review process for foreign investment. Many, without being specific, could end up blocking all kinds of deals.
 A bill submitted in the House by Duncan Hunter, Republican of California, and H. James Saxton, a Republican from New Jersey, for example, would bar foreign-controlled concerns from buying any company that operated ''critical infrastructure,'' which could include everything from water and energy companies to those involved in telecommunications.
 ''It's almost certain that one or another of those bills will pass,'' Mr. Prestowitz said. ''The question is whether it will have sufficient votes to override a veto by the president.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem is the chairman of DP World. (Photo by Suzanne Plunkett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); INWARD INVESTMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); TAKEOVERS (70%); MERGERS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); LAWYERS (66%); STATISTICS (60%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; United States Economy; International Trade and World Market; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (91%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Dp World; Economic Stategy Institute

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (91%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: Clyde Prestowitz; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



190 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: After the Fed, Exuberance

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
From an airy oval-shaped office with a striking bay window offering a panoramic view of a downtown street here, Alan Greenspan is trying to replicate his long-ago life as a Wall Street economic forecaster. But with a big difference.
 After all, for the last 18 years as chairman of the Federal Reserve, Mr. Greenspan has exercised a powerful influence on the national and global economy, becoming a celebrity in the process. His return to private life, as a result, has been far from private.
 Already, Mr. Greenspan has reached a book deal that will provide him with a guaranteed advance of more than $8.5 million. He no longer provides economic forecasts to clients. And his speeches, which once moved markets but were given free, are now doled out to exclusive audiences willing to pay six figures to hear him say nothing more than he has said before.
 ''Ben Bernanke has a tough enough job as it is,'' Mr. Greenspan said in an interview, most of which he put off the record. ''Having his predecessor speak out on monetary policy or on the short-term business outlook is not helpful.'' 
 Indeed, an e-mail message that circulated within Lehman Brothers -- summarizing Mr. Greenspan's unrecorded remarks on Feb. 7 to a dozen or so of the firm's top executives and biggest clients -- confirmed his comment in the interview that ''I have stayed closely to statements I've made previously either in speeches or in testimony.'' 
 Such discretion is all well and good, Fed watchers say. Even the big payoff after so many years as Fed chairman goes lightly challenged in this era of big payoffs for brand-name personalities -- from former President Bill Clinton on down -- who leave government for the private sector. But the speed with which Mr. Greenspan cashed in has raised questions among critics. So have the unintended consequences.
 ''It is an unusual performance on his part because of the secrecy associated with the Fed,'' said Albert Wojnilower, a contemporary of the 80-year-old Mr. Greenspan and a famous Wall Street economist in his own right in the 1980's. ''There are literally hundreds of Fed staffers and former staffers, and you hardly see any of them speaking out of turn. If Greenspan had waited three months, he would have no longer been thought of as privy to the Fed.'' 
 The first talk, to Lehman Brothers, came just seven days after Mr. Greenspan presided over his last policy-making meeting at the Fed, on Jan. 31. Even limiting himself to innocuous remarks, said James Glassman, senior domestic economist for J. P. Morgan Chase, Mr. Greenspan should have anticipated how they would be twisted.
 ''He has to know that people who report what he says at this sort of private gathering -- they can put words in his mouth,'' Mr. Glassman said. ''They did, making him seem very hawkish,'' more concerned about inflation than the minutes of that last meeting reported him to be when they were published in late February.
 Mr. Greenspan's predecessor, Paul A. Volcker, also cashed in after he left the Fed in 1987, but not as soon after or as spectacularly. And there was a vast difference in their wealth.
 Mr. Greenspan built his early reputation and a relatively modest fortune as an adviser to Republican politicians and as the proprietor of a consulting firm, which he dissolved when President Ronald Reagan named him Fed chairman. During his tenure, his savings, which add up now to a reported net worth of $4 million to $8 million, were invested in one-year Treasury bills. 
 Mr. Volcker, who had spent most of his career in government, was famously without savings, yet entered private life far less purposefully than Mr. Greenspan has.
 ''I sat around scratching my head for quite a while,'' Mr. Volcker remembered in an interview this week, adding that his indecision ''drove my wife crazy.'' 
 He did not write a memoir, he said, not sure ''whether that was appropriate'' for a former Fed chairman.
 Early on, he taught at Princeton, doing so a couple of days a week, and that cut into money-making opportunities, he said.
 Mr. Volcker eventually built up his wealth as chairman of James D. Wolfensohn Inc., a boutique investment house. But for the first six months of his post-Fed life, he turned to speaking for income, as Mr. Greenspan has.
 ''I found that I could give a speech or two and I could earn what I had made at the Fed,'' Mr. Volcker said. His final Fed salary was $80,000 a year, a full $100,000 less than Mr. Greenspan's income as chairman in his last year. 
 Mr. Greenspan declined to discuss how much he received for the Lehman talk, or his two other behind-closed-door addresses: one to a group in Tokyo, via satellite; the other to clients of ABN Amro, the Dutch company, gathered at the St. Regis Hotel in New York. 
 Bill Leigh, who books high-end speakers as head of his own firm, said that the range for celebrities of Mr. Greenspan's stature is $90,000 to $150,000 a speech. 
 On the day he left the Fed, Mr. Greenspan segued into proprietor of Greenspan Associates. So far he is the only associate. He is operating with a support staff of fewer than five people. They occupy a rented two-office suite: his office and the one occupied by the staff. His room is modernistic and brightly lighted, paneled in light brown wood. The dominant feature, apart from the bay window and sitting area, is Mr. Greenspan's large dark-wood desk -- strewn with papers, like his desk often was at the Fed. 
 Two imposing flat screens are set up on a side table at a right angle to the desk. They suggest a sophisticated computer system giving him access to much of the vast array of data once available to him at the Fed.
 ''The statistical resources at the Fed are formidable,'' he said, ''and I have been able to reproduce most of what I had access to there.''
 Of course, the 200 or so expert economists at the Fed, who helped Mr. Greenspan analyze the stacks of data, are missing.
 Mr. Greenspan, in any case, is not selling his expertise to clients, at least not yet. That advice is going so far only to Gordon Brown, the British chancellor of the exchequer, an old friend who has invited Mr. Greenspan to be an honorary adviser, an invitation he accepted pro bono.
 Mr. Greenspan's daily schedule has changed very little. He usually works about 10 hours. His leisure time, as it was at the Fed, is devoted to tennis -- two or three times a week -- and dinner parties, which he attends with his wife, Andrea Mitchell, chief foreign affairs correspondent for NBC News. 
 The 10 hours go mostly to writing his memoir. He has promised his publisher, Penguin Press, the first draft by the end of the year. A collaborator -- probably David Wessel, the deputy Washington bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal -- will shape the second draft, after which Mr. Greenspan said that he would do the third, which he hopes will be the final manuscript.
 The 10-page proposal for the book promises, among other things, first-person, narrative detail about such earth-shaking events during his Fed tenure as the 1987 stock market crash, the economic reverberations from the collapse of the Soviet Union and the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
 As a self-described free market libertarian -- that is, one who believes in a market system with limited government involvement -- he welcomed the rise of a global economy and, with the end of the cold war and the collapse of planned economies, ''the gradual integration of educated, low-wage workers into the global work force.'' 
 Lest the book proposal sound too heavily weighted with economics, Mr. Greenspan promises some early life history, including the influence of his mentor, the author and novelist Ayn Rand, who shaped him as a young man into a libertarian. And he will describe his ''encounters with, and impressions of'' numerous politicians, cabinet members, presidents and world leaders.
 Turning to politics, he plans to argue that the current ''ideological divide'' separating conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats leaves ''a vast untended center from which a well-financed independent presidential candidate is likely to emerge in 2008 or, if not then, in 2012.''
 His reputation as a forecaster, though, rests more on his economic insights than his political predictions. He promised to delve ''into the forces that will determine how the next decades are likely to unfold,'' concluding approvingly that ''global competitive pressures are likely in the years ahead to bias most market-oriented economies toward the U.S. model.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan Greenspan built his early reputation as an adviser to Republicans. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Many Rubber Chickens''After leaving office, some government leaders have had lucrative careers as speakers.Ronald ReaganTOP FEE: $2,000,000Bill ClintonTOP FEE: 400,000Rudolph W. GiulianiTOP FEE: 100,000Colin L. PowellTOP FEE: 100,000Madeleine K. AlbrightTOP FEE: 80,000Karen P. HughesTOP FEE: 50,000Newt GingrichTOP FEE: 40,000George J. TenetTOP FEE: 25,000**Average fee(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); LITERATURE (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (62%) United States Economy; Biographical Information; Books and Literature; United States Economy

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); BEN BERNANKE (73%); BILL CLINTON (53%) Alan Greenspan; Louis Uchitelle; Ben Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



191 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dubai Company Abandons Deal To Operate Ports in United States
The state-owned Dubai company seeking to manage operations at six American ports dropped out of the deal, bowing to a political uproar that President Bush was unable to contain, even within his own party. [Page A1.] 


Rather than chilling interest in investing in the United States, the decision by DP World of Dubai to abandon the ports deal may actually have made it safer for foreigners by relieving some of the political pressure that was building against them. But fears remain that the United States is becoming a less welcoming place for overseas investment. [C1.]

U.S. Under Pressure to Limit China's Exports
With the United States reporting another surge in its trade deficits with China and the rest of the world, economic tensions are rising as Washington prepares for the visit of President Hu Jintao, left. But international trade rules and a tight Congressional calendar are limiting the options of American politicians and trade negotiators, who are under increasing pressure to find some way to curb the growth in China's exports. Chinese exports to the United States exceed American shipments in the other direction by almost six to one. That means that nearly across the board, from textiles to steel to pirated movies, more Western companies are fighting battle after battle with Chinese businesses. [C1.]

Amazon Said to Be in Talks to Start Download Service
Amazon is in talks with three film studios about starting a service that would allow consumers to download movies and TV shows for a fee and burn them onto DVD's, according to people briefed on the discussions. [C1.]

Dissatisfaction Grows Among Nation's Pilots
With half the seats in the nation's airliners run by companies either in bankruptcy protection or limping out of it, pilots are facing a new world of reduced pay and pensions, and longer hours. [C3.]

Move by Japan Central Bank Shows New Confidence
Japan's financial crisis of more than a decade is over. That was the message from the Bank of Japan as it announced the end of an ultra-lush monetary policy adopted five years ago as an emergency measure. [C6.]

As Private Figure, Greenspan Remains in Spotlight
For 18 years, as chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan has exercised a powerful influence on the national and global economy, becoming a celebrity in the process. His return to private life, as a result, has been far from private. [C1.]

Grupo Televisa May Join Bid for Univision
A group of companies and investors including the Mexican television empire Grupo Televisa has emerged as a potential bidder for Univision Communications, the largest Spanish-language media group in the United States. [C1.]

As would-be buyers prepare bids for Univision Communications, they must wrestle with the fact that the television tastes of Latinos are changing more quickly than Univision's shows. [A1.]
Apartment Complex Debates Whether to 'Go to Market'
In a dispute that is pitting neighbor against neighbor, the residents of a co-op apartment complex on the dividing line between Harlem and Morningside Heights are scheduled to vote on whether to amend their bylaws to let sale prices triple immediately and be adjusted every year thereafter. [A1.]

Imax, the Movie Company, Puts Itself Up for Sale
Imax, the company that specializes in outsize movies, said that it would try to sell its operations to a corporation that is more on the scale of its giant screens. Imax abandoned a sale attempt almost five years ago after finding no buyers. The company has significantly improved its financial performance by shifting away from specially commissioned films like ''Alaska: Spirit of the Wild'' toward digitally remade Hollywood releases like ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.'' It also introduced a process that lets film producers create Imax versions of conventional animated features. [C13.]

Major U.S. Stock Indicators Post Declines
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.46 points, to 10,972.28. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 6.24 points, to 1,272.23, and the Nasdaq fell 17.74 points, to 2,249.72. [C7.]

Security Contractor for Iraq Guilty of Overbilling
In the first corporate whistleblower case to emerge from Iraq, a federal jury found the security contractor Custer Battles guilty of defrauding the United States by filing inflated invoices for work after the Iraqi invasion. [A10.]

Women in Hedge Funds Unite for Charity
Women in the male-dominated hedge fund business have been forming connections, many of them philanthropic, among themselves. Street Scene. [C5.]

Tobacco Companies Move to Nontraditional Marketing
Since a landmark settlement, tobacco companies have abandoned most conventional advertising, but they are using other means and their considerable finances to get their point across. Antismoking groups, on the other hand, are now struggling to find the money for campaigns. Advertising. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''Imax Share prices, daily closes''Jan.: $7.38Feb.: $10.35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); AIRLINES (63%); MONETARY POLICY (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (59%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); GRUPO TELEVISA SA (51%)

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (59%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); TV (NYSE) (51%); TLEVISA (BMV) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (59%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (59%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); HU JINTAO (68%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



192 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: $25,000 to Lobby Group Is Tied to Access to Bush

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
The chief of an Indian tribe represented by the lobbyist Jack Abramoff was admitted to a meeting with President Bush in 2001 days after the tribe paid a prominent conservative lobbying group $25,000 at Mr. Abramoff's direction, according to documents and interviews.
 The payment was made to Americans for Tax Reform, a group run by Grover G. Norquist, one of the Republican Party's most influential policy strategists. Mr. Norquist was a friend and longtime associate of Mr. Abramoff. 
The meeting with Mr. Bush took place on May 9, 2001, at a reception organized by Mr. Norquist to marshal support for the president's 2001 tax cuts, which were pending before Congress. About two dozen state legislators attended the session in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House grounds. The meeting was called to thank legislators for support of the tax-cut plan, an issue on which the tribal leader had no direct involvement.
 Mr. Norquist attended the meeting, along with Mr. Abramoff and the tribal leader, Raul Garza of the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe of Texas. It is not clear what role, if any, Mr. Norquist played in getting Chief Garza into the meeting, and there is no suggestion that the White House was aware of the $25,000 payment.
 But the transaction adds new details to what is known about how Mr. Abramoff used his links to well-connected conservatives to establish himself among his lobbying clients as having access to the highest levels of power in Washington. Mr. Abramoff has pleaded guilty to conspiring to corrupt public officials and is cooperating with the Justice Department investigation. 
 The transaction could also focus further attention on Mr. Norquist's group, which is already under scrutiny by the Justice Department and Congressional investigators over its ties to Mr. Abramoff. On being presented with a copy of a letter dated May 10, 2001, in which one of its officials acknowledged receipt of the $25,000 donation, Americans for Tax Reform responded that it did not seek money for White House access. 
 John Kartch, the group's communications director, said, ''No money was ever collected for admission to these events.'' 
 Mr. Kartch described the reception as one of several gatherings with President Bush sponsored by Americans for Tax Reform in support of his economic policies. ''No lobbying occurred at these events, which were similar in nature to a bill-signing, with people listening to the president speak,'' he said.
 Mr. Kartch said the anti-tax group ''did not want liberals unfairly smearing tribes that supported the president's agenda.''
 There is only one other documented instance in which Mr. Abramoff was able to obtain a White House meeting for one of his tribal clients through Mr. Norquist, and it occurred the same day of the visit by the Kickapoo leader. On that day, a leader of a Louisiana tribe has said he attended a separate event by Americans for Tax Reform that was also attended by Mr. Bush.
 Documents obtained by investigators for the Senate Indian Affairs Committee show that the second tribe, the Louisiana Coushattas, also paid $25,000 to Mr. Norquist's group shortly before the meeting, although the tribe has been unwilling to say if its chief had the same opportunity as the Kickapoo chief to talk briefly with Mr. Bush and be photographed with him.
 The May 9 reception attended by Chief Garza was photographed by a White House photographer. One of the photographs became public last month, and showed Mr. Abramoff in the far background as Mr. Bush greeted Chief Garza. It was the first picture showing Mr. Abramoff in the same setting with Mr. Bush, who has said he does not remember meeting the lobbyist. 
 A former senior tribal official, Isidro Garza, who is not related to Raul Garza, said the $25,000 donation to Americans for Tax Reform was solicited days earlier by Mr. Abramoff, who often encouraged his clients to donate to Mr. Norquist's group. Most of the tribe's money comes from a casino it operates near the Mexican border.
 Isidro Garza said Mr. Abramoff did not say directly that the $25,000 was the price of admission to the meeting with Mr. Bush. 
 Mr. Abramoff, he said, described the donation to Mr. Norquist's group as a ''good investment'' in the tribe's lobbying efforts in Washington. Mr. Garza said he arranged for the payment although he saw little direct connection between the tribe's interests and those of Americans for Tax Reform. 
 A White House spokesman, Dana Perino, said that White House officials were ''absolutely not'' aware of the Kickapoos' $25,000 payment to Americans for Tax Reform and that the May 2001 reception was an effort to thank ''people who had expressed support for the president'' on the tax cuts. 
 Isidro Garza and Raul Garza are both under indictment in Texas on federal embezzlement charges involving the use of tribal money. 
 Isidro Garza, who functioned as the chief counselor to Chief Garza, said he was willing to reveal details about the $25,000 payment and the White House meeting in hope of having the government determine whether anyone in Washington manipulated their ouster from the tribe, the act that led to the criminal charges. 
 Mr. Abramoff might have had reason to want an overhaul of the tribe's leadership. In 2001, Isidro Garza said, the Kickapoos rejected a proposal from Michael Scanlon, Mr. Abramoff's business partner, that the tribe pay $2 million in fees for a lobbying campaign on behalf of the tribe's casino. A lawyer for Raul Garza, Jason Davis of San Antonio, said Chief Garza ''got caught in the crossfire of tribal politics'' when he was ousted as the tribal leader in 2002, and ''the question is whether he also got caught in the crossfire of national politics.'' 
 Through his lawyers, Mr. Abramoff had no comment on the White House meeting with the Kickapoos. A lawyer for Mr. Scanlon, who has also pleaded guilty in the case, did not return telephone calls.
 In a letter dated May 10, 2001, the day after the White House reception, Americans for Tax Reform acknowledged the contribution from the Kickapoos, who had sought help from Mr. Abramoff in lobbying on behalf of its casino. ''Thank you for your generous support of our work,'' wrote Jennifer Kuhn, the tax group's vice president for finance. ''I have received your contribution for $25,000.''
 A copy of the letter was provided to The New York Times by Isidro Garza and was then forwarded to Americans for Tax Reform for comment. The group did not comment on the document or explain the detailed circumstances of the Kickapoo's invitation to the White House.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Raul Garza, the Kickapoo chief, left, with Isidro Garza on Tuesday. They figure in the Abramoff investigation. (Photo by Theresa Scarbrough for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LOBBYING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX REFORM (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); CONSPIRACY (64%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%) Taxation; Kickapoo Indians; Law and Legislation; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (84%) Americans for Tax Reform; Congress (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Philip Shenon; Grover Norquist; Jack Abramoff; Raul Garza; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



193 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS SUMMARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 984 words

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Olmert Offers New Details Of Border Plans for Israel
Ehud Olmert, Israel's acting prime minister, said that if he retained his post he would set the country's permanent borders by 2010 and they would most likely run near the West Bank separation barrier. A3

Security Council Considers Iran 

The Security Council is considering a statement listing failures by Iran to meet demands over its nuclear program, but making only passing mention of punishment. A6

U.S. Plans to Close Abu Ghraib
The American military said that within the next several months it intended to relocate all its detainees from Abu Ghraib prison, the penal compound that became notorious after photographs were made public of American soldiers abusing Iraqi prisoners there. A10

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said the United States would seek to avoid putting its forces in the middle of a civil war in Iraq, but stressed that America's goal was to prevent the violence from becoming a full-fledged sectarian conflict. A10

The Sunni-owned security company where about 50 employees were kidnapped on Wednesday was under investigation for allegedly collaborating with the insurgency, an Interior Ministry official said. A10

A federal jury found the contractor Custer Battles guilty of defrauding the United States by filing grossly inflated invoices for work done in Iraq in the year after the invasion. A10

China Criticizes Rights Report
China, in response to a State Department report on human rights that said conditions in China were worsening, said that the American government should concentrate on improving its own rights record. A12

U.N. Revises Disaster Response
The United Nations announced the creation of a $500 million fund that will be used to respond to disasters sooner. A8

NATIONAL A14-19

Political Pressure Forces Dubai Firm From Port Deal
The state-owned Dubai company seeking to manage some terminal operations at six American ports dropped out of the deal, bowing to a political uproar in Congress and around the country. A1

Campus Reacts to Arrests
Students and administrators at Birmingham-Southern College struggled to come to terms with the arrests of two sophomores in the burning of nine rural churches. A14

Child Care Changes Draw Fire
A Bush administration plan to reorganize programs for low-income families has brought protests by service agencies around the country, which fear it signals a waning in the federal commitment to child care assistance for working mothers. A14

Plaintiffs Agree to Arbitration
A second group of plaintiffs who say they were abused by priests in Boston has reached a settlement with the archdiocese. A16

Record Drought in Phoenix
Phoenix knows all about dry weather, but as the city entered its 142nd day without rainfall -- setting another record -- the drought has taken a toll on plant and animal life. A1

Aging Citizens Less of a Burden
The next few decades will see an explosion in the percentage of Americans over the age of 65, but the economic and social impact may be gentler than had been feared because of a significant drop in the percentage of older people with disabilities, a new federal study has concluded. A19

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Saturn Moon May Support Life
With newly discovered signs of liquid water on a little-known moon of Saturn has added it to the highly select group of places in the solar system that could plausibly support life. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

2 Police Officers Arrested In Brothel Bribery Scandal
Two veteran police officers have been arrested on federal charges of accepting bribes and sexual favors in exchange for ignoring a brothel in Queens that took in more than $1 million a year, in the largest sex and bribes-for-protection scandal in the New York Police Department in nearly a decade. A1

Jail Makes Room for Retail
New York City's Correction Department has decided to convert part of the Brooklyn House of Detention, a forbidding razor wire fortress, into retail shopping space. B1

Missing Girl Found in City
A Jersey City teenager who vanished on her way to school on Monday turned up unharmed in New York City, and her story of abduction, confinement in a dark basement and sexual abuse -- told in cryptic text messages to her mother -- appeared to be false, the police said. B3

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-42

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

Proud Conference's Rough Time
There are 30 N.C.A.A. Division I men's basketball conferences better than the Southwestern Athletic Conference. There are none worse. No one is quite sure why the SWAC, a once proud conference of historically black colleges, is at the bottom of the rankings, if not the underside of March Madness. D1

OBITUARIES C14

Joseph Gardner
A Manhattan real estate developer, known for identifying emerging neighborhoods, he was 78. C14

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Amazon May Try Downloads
Amazon.com is in talks with Paramount Pictures, Universal Studios and Warner Brothers to start a service that would allow consumers to download movies and TV shows for a fee, according to sources briefed on the discussions. C1

Tension Over Trade Deficits
With the United States reporting yet another surge in its trade deficits with China and the rest of the world, economic tensions are rising again as Washington prepares for the long-delayed visit of President Hu Jintao late next month. C1

Effect of Dubai Decision
DP World's decision to transfer a handful of American port terminals, rather than discouraging foreign investing in the United States, may actually have made it safer for foreigners by relieving some of the political pressure that was building up after the Middle Eastern firm's much-disputed acquisition of the ports. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Our porous port protections; build the memorial first; but can it be bottled like Evian?

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword: E38
TV Listings: E28
Weather: D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (86%); DROUGHT (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRISONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); CHILD ABUSE (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); JURY TRIALS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); WORKING MOTHERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); VERDICTS (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); DISASTER RELIEF (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); POOR POPULATION (65%); CHILD CARE (64%); FAMILY (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (93%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



194 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: As Trade Deficit Grows, So Do Tensions With China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 9 

 BODY:
With the United States reporting on Thursday yet another surge in its trade deficits with China and the rest of the world, economic tensions are rising again as Washington prepares for the long-delayed visit of President Hu Jintao late next month.
 But international trade rules and a tight Congressional calendar are limiting the options of American politicians and trade negotiators, who are under increasing pressure to find some way to curb the growth in China's exports.
Chinese exports to the United States exceed American shipments in the other direction by almost six to one. That means that nearly across the board, from textiles to steel to pirated movies, more Western companies are fighting battle after battle with Chinese businesses.
 For the United States, the trade gap with China widened in January to $17.9 billion, a 10 percent increase from the previous month. Over all, the United States imported $68.5 billion more in goods and services than it exported. Reflecting a stronger global economy, exports rose, with airplane sales up strongly along with soybean shipments, but imports continued to outpace their growth, driven by demand for oil, foreign cars and parts as well as products from China like clothing and cellphones. 
 In Washington, the Bush administration, under attack by lawmakers on a range of issues, including the Dubai port operations deal, is talking tougher about confronting China over its trade practices. The Treasury is reviewing whether to label China a currency manipulator, which could lead to a series of moves aimed at China's export industries. 
 Serving as a political backdrop to the administration's effort to manage its relationship with Beijing are the growing number of lawmakers lining up to retaliate against China's trade and currency practices. And the approach of midterm Congressional elections in November has further focused attention on trade with China, especially in states like Ohio and North Carolina with large manufacturing sectors.
 ''Members of Congress, on a bipartisan basis, are expressing serious concerns that China's national currency is undervalued and causing harm to the U.S. economy and sending American jobs overseas,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader.
 Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, are pushing legislation in the Senate that would impose a tariff of 27.5 percent on all imports from China unless Beijing allows its currency to rise substantially, making Chinese exports less competitive. 
 While President Bush is likely to veto any such legislation that emerged from Congress, Mr. Schumer said he was convinced that ''there would be enough votes to override a presidential veto.''
 Farm state lawmakers have long been the most reliable supporters of China in Congress, viewing it as a large potential market for American-grown food. But even Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, has said that he is drafting legislation to deal with China's rising exports. He has disclosed few details so far, however.
 Except for disputes over China's controls on the Internet, many of the conflicts bear similarities to past trade frictions, particularly ones that pitted the United States and Western Europe against Japan's rising industrial power in the late 1980's and early 1990's. But there are some important differences.
 The creation of the World Trade Organization in 1994 has restricted Western options in dealing with China. The ''voluntary'' export restraints that Japan relied upon to limit its shipments of cars and machine tools at the insistence of the United States and the European Union, are now banned by the W.T.O., as are many other unilateral measures. 
 ''There's a different trade regime in place now,'' said Timothy P. Stratford, the assistant United States trade representative for China. But, he added, ''China now is a major trading partner, and we expect them to play a role in the trading system commensurate with their economic heft.''
 In cases where China may not live up to its W.T.O. obligations, other countries will not be afraid to challenge it through bilateral talks or W.T.O. legal cases, Mr. Stratford said. While such challenges can take many months and even years, ''we shouldn't be afraid to sue them,'' he said, ''and they shouldn't be afraid to sue us.''
 Just one W.T.O. case has been filed against China so far, by the United States.
 Moves toward getting tough with China face other practical obstacles. The midterm elections in November may make American politicians more attuned to public concerns, but they also compress the Congressional calendar. Budget issues will clog the agenda in the late summer and autumn, and the next several months may not be enough time for Congress to move trade legislation close to final passage, several trade experts said.
 Meanwhile, Chinese officials have many cards to play. The Treasury Department is widely expected to wait until after President Hu's visit before deciding whether to accuse China of manipulating its currency, a step with little immediate effect but one that might prompt lawmakers to press ahead with legislation.
 The United States and the European Union were able to cap Chinese textile and apparel exports last year under special provisions that China accepted as a condition for its admittance to the W.T.O. in 2001. But limits on many other products are now harder to impose except through so-called dumping cases, involving accusations that goods are sold below cost or below their price in other markets. 
 Rampant Chinese copying of American movies, computer software and other intellectual property continues to depress the value of American exports to China and is certain to remain a bilateral issue this year.
 During his 23-year tenure in China, Mr. Stratford said, ''I didn't even know how to buy a legal DVD.''
 To compete with counterfeit DVD's of ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire'' -- which cost $1 -- Time Warner has resorted to selling a legal DVD in China for just $2.75, about a tenth of the list price in the United States.
 To discourage people from buying the inexpensive legal DVD's in China and shipping them to other markets, Time Warner has dubbed the movie in Chinese. It is also selling a basic version of the DVD that has just the movie and not the interviews with the actors and other features available on deluxe versions.
 ''It is a delicate task of developing a Chinese market without this becoming a gray-market product flooding other markets,'' said Hugh L. Stephens, Time Warner's senior vice president for international relations and pubic policy in Asia and the Pacific.
 Preliminary results from a survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in Guangdong, one of China's largest exporting provinces, show both why doing business in China is still attractive for many American companies and why the trade deficit is so large.
 Three-quarters of the companies surveyed said they were already making profits in China and most of the rest expected to be profitable in the next two years. Their top goal was to produce goods and services in southeastern China for sale within China, and their second-ranking goal was to benefit from lower labor costs.
 Well down the list was any interest in bringing in American goods and services to China, a finding that Harley Seyedin, the chamber's president, attributed to a lack of national attention in the United States on improving the competitiveness ofexports.
 In the end, economists say, the bilateral deficit with China needs to be put in a global context. Even a sharp appreciation in the Chinese currency against the dollar would only shift some goods from one market to another. That is because the overall trade imbalance is driven largely by the fact that Americans need to borrow so much from abroad because they save so little.
 ''If we don't have a deficit with China,'' said R. Glenn Hubbard, once President Bush's chief economic adviser and now the dean of the Columbia University Business School, ''we'll have a deficit with someone else.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Large Imbalance''The United States trade deficit with China has grown steadily.Graph tracks imports from China and exports to China since 2003.(Source by Census Bureau, foreign trade division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TEXTILES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; United States International Relations; Currency; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Unemployment; United States Economy; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Treasury Department

PERSON: HU JINTAO (88%); CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (76%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (76%); NANCY PELOSI (76%) George W (Pres) Bush; Hu Jintao (Pres); Nancy (Rep) Pelosi; Lindsey (Sen) Graham; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Vikas Bajaj; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%) United States; China

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



195 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1923 words

HEADLINE: UNDER PRESSURE, DUBAI COMPANY DROPS PORT DEAL

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Reporting for this article was contributed by Hassan Fattah from Dubai, David D. Kirkpatrick from Washington, Patrick McGeehan from New York and Heather Timmons from London.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
The state-owned Dubai company seeking to manage some terminal operations at six American ports dropped out of the deal on Thursday, bowing to an unrelenting bipartisan attack in Congress that swept aside President Bush's efforts.
 The company, DP World, said that at the direction of Dubai's ruler it would ''transfer'' to a still-unnamed American company the leases to manage some of the busiest terminals in the United States, including some in New York, Newark, Baltimore and Miami.
Under questioning, the company declined to say whether it planned to sell the American operations or had some other transaction in mind. 
 The action averted a showdown with Congress that Mr. Bush was all but certain to lose, as signaled on Wednesday by a 62-to-2 vote of the House Appropriations Committee to reject the transfer, because it allowed the sale of some terminal operations to an Arab state company. 
 Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, announced the change on the Senate floor two hours before the Senate had been scheduled to vote on a motion that could have paved the way for a Democratic proposal to scuttle the deal. 
 Mr. Warner made his announcement amid indications that the White House was looking for a way out of the confrontation. A delegation of Republican Congressional leaders told Mr. Bush on Thursday morning that his threat to veto Congressional action against transferring control of the terminals would not stop Congress from blocking the deal. 
 The outcome did nothing to solve the underlying issue exposed by an uproar that has consumed the capital for weeks. A vast majority of containers that flow daily into the United States remain uninspected and vulnerable to security gaps at many points. 
 Some experts suggested that DP World's quick surrender might take pressure off the administration, Congress and nations around the world to solve that problem.
 DP World announced its decision after the White House appeared to signal that Mr. Bush wanted a face-saving way out of the shift by declining to repeat his veto threat. 
 The company said the decision had been made by the prime minister of the United Arab Emirates, who is also the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum. 
 ''This was clearly not a business decision made by DP World,'' a senior administration official said. ''It was a strategic decision made by the U.A.E. to avoid further damage.''
 In Dubai, a senior political official with intimate knowledge of the deliberations, said: ''A political decision was taken to ask DP World to try and defuse the situation. We have to help our friends.'' 
 The official sought anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for the record. He was referring to Mr. Bush, who backed the initial deal, and several Republican senators who did as well. 
 The company's decision drew sighs of relief from officials in New York and other cities where the imminent transfer had stirred cries of alarm. But the announcement left those officials wondering which American companies might want to buy the American terminal operations. The company that DP World outbid to buy the current operator, Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, a British company, for $6.8 billion, is Singaporean.
 ''If it's a U.S. company, it should alleviate some of the concerns about security which have been talked about over the last few weeks,'' Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said. ''I don't know how successful they'll be.''
 The Port Authority owns terminals in the New York metropolitan region.
 Foreign companies have long dominated the business of loading and unloading cargo ships, and few American operators remain. ''This is a case where we were arguing about the wrong part of the problem,'' said Stephen Flynn, a former Coast Guard officer and port security expert who has argued that the nationality of the port operations manager has little to do with the gaping holes in security. ''Americans were shocked to learn that the vast majority of port operations in this country are handled by foreign firms. But transportation is a global network, and we're not going to own all of it.''
 Private equity firms, including the Blackstone Group in New York and KKR, have been named as potential buyers of the American terminal operations, which are a small and not particularly lucrative slice of the $6.85 billion Dubaian purchase. 
 The collapse of the deal is the second time in less than a year in which a foreign acquisition raised protests about the economic security of the United States. Cnooc, a Chinese government-owned oil company, dropped a bid to buy Unocal in July, after it was clear that opposition would run high. Chevron took over the company instead, for $18 billion.
 What appeared to set off Democrats and Republicans this time, against the backdrop of concern about possible terrorist attacks, was that the buyer was a state-owned Arab company. Mr. Bush and his aides issued a strong defense, suggesting that racial bias lay at the core of the objections and warning that an undercurrent of isolationism would ultimately harm American efforts to enlist other nations in antiterrorism campaigns. 
 Those objections were washed away in a tidal wave of opposition in which Republicans and Democrats competed to position themselves as greater protectors of American security. 
 Democrats like Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York warned that the port operations could be ''infiltrated'' by terrorists exploiting the ownership in Dubai, an emirate known for its open trade. Dubai had been the transfer point starting in the late 90's for nuclear components shipped by the largest illicit nuclear technology network in the world. 
 The chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Representative Duncan Hunter, Republican of California, introduced a bill that would require American ports and other strategic assets to be returned to American hands. 
 ''Our longer-term goal is to identify long-range foreign investment in our critical infrastructure, reform the process for approving foreign investment in the United States and ensure 100 percent cargo inspection,'' Mr. Hunter said on Thursday.
 From the start of the controversy, the White House appeared to have been caught flat-footed. Mr. Bush and his top advisers said they learned about the transfer late last month, one month after the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, an interagency committee that passes judgment on foreign acquisitions, approved the shift, after resolving minimal objections raised by the Coast Guard, part of the Homeland Security Department. The uproar over the deal, fanned in part by talk radio, led the White House and DP World into concessions. Ten days ago, DP World agreed to a more thorough investigation by the interagency group and said it would hold the American operations separate from the rest of the company until the review was completed. 
 By Thursday morning, Mr. Bush's press secretary, Scott McClellan, appeared to signal that the White House was backing away from its position, by refusing to repeat the veto threat. 
 At the time, Mr. Bush was meeting with the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, both of whom had vocally split with Mr. Bush on the deal.
 ''It was a tactical discussion by that point,'' a participant said. ''Look, the president didn't fall off a turnip truck. He understood the political reality.'' 
 Another participant, the House majority leader, Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, was unapologetic about the uprising.
 ''House Republicans,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''were obligated to take action to respond to the concerns Americans have expressed about the proposed deal.'' 
 It was unclear who a buyer might be for the assets now on the block. Experts said ports businesses threw off a predictable amount of cash, a quality often attractive to private equity buyers. 
 Because DP World is desperate to sell, some experts said, the terminal leases could be dumped at a bargain price.
 ''There are a lot of private equity firms that focus on logistics businesses, and operating a port might be a logical extension of that,'' said Andrew Sommer, a partner with Debevoise & Plimpton in New York who often works with private equity firms. 
 Three private equity firms named as potential suitors, Blackstone, KKR and the Texas Pacific Group, had no comment. 
 DP World issued its decision hours after its side won a round in a legal dispute with the Port Authority. The authority had asked a New Jersey state court in Newark to allow it to break quickly its 30-year lease on the Port Newark Container Terminal, half operated by P&O Ports North America. 
 Judge Patricia K. Costello of Superior Court in Essex County ruled that she did not know enough about the transaction to make an immediate decision about whether the transfer was a transaction that required the consent of the Port Authority. Judge Costello ordered an expedited review of the complaint because of the ''high level of public interest'' in the ''security and workings of the port.''


Feb. 13
Shareholders of Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation, a British company that operates some port terminals in the U.S., approve a takeover bid by DP World, a Dubai-owned company.

Feb. 16 DP
World says it has received all necessary approvals from U.S. regulators.

Feb. 16
''This is not going to go through quietly and secretly the way some people might like.'' - Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.

Feb. 17
''Our port security is too important to place in the hands of foreign governments.'' - Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York.

Feb. 20
''There wasn't a full investigation in the context of a post 9/11 world.'' - Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York.

Feb. 21
''If there was any chance that this transaction would jeopardize the security of the United States, it would not go forward.'' - President Bush, after announcing he will veto any legislation blocking the deal.

Feb. 22
''We probably should have briefed Congress about it sooner.'' - Scott McClellan, White House press secretary.

Feb. 26
''We cannot mess this deal up. We as the United States are dependent on countries like the U.A.E., Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, all of them there, to give us the support to fight this war on terrorism.'' - Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia.

Feb. 26
''We've defended them on wiretaps, we've defended them on Iraq, we've defended them on so many things he's tried to accomplish, that to be left out here supporting this thing in a vacuum is kind of offensive.'' - Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida.

Feb. 27
70 percent of participants in a CBS News poll say a United Arab Emirates company should not be permitted to operate U.S. shipping ports.

Feb. 28
''We assessed the threat to U.S. national security posed by DP World to be low.'' - John D. Negroponte, director of national intelligence, appearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee.

March 7
''It is my intention to lay the foundation to block the deal.'' - Jerry Lewis, Republican of California, head of the House Appropriations Committee.

March 7
''Dubai can't be trusted with our critical infrastructure.'' - Representative Duncan Hunter, Republican of California.

March 8
The House Appropriations Committee votes 62 to 2 to block the DP World transaction.

March 9
DP World says it will transfer port terminals in the U.S. to an American-owned company.

(Source by news reports)(pg. A18)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators Charles E. Schumer of New York, left
Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, center
 and Harry Reid of Nevada, all Democrats, at news conference yesterday in Washington on the ports decision by DP World. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A18)Chart: ''A Troubled Deal''In January, an interagency committee led by the Treasury Department unanimously approved a Dubai-owned port operator to do business in the United States, a decision that rattled Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TERRORISM (72%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; Law and Legislation; Terrorism; Ships and Shipping ; Security and Warning Systems; Ships and Shipping 

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Dp World; Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (85%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN WARNER (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); HARRY REID (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; Mohammed Bin Rashid Al- (Sheik) Maktoum; John (Sen) Warner; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (98%) Dubai; United Arab Emirates; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



196 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: Slim Criticizes Central Bank

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Carlos Slim Helu, the world's fourth-richest person, said Mexico's central bank had hurt the country's competitiveness. Mr. Slim, left, who controls Telefonos de Mexico and America Movil, the country's dominant fixed-line and mobile phone companies, made the comments one day after Guillermo Ortiz, president of Mexico's central bank, said the two companies hurt the country's competitiveness through high rates. Mr. Slim said that the Bank of Mexico, by making low inflation its only goal, had pursued a tight monetary policy that had caused the peso to appreciate. ''This hurts our competitiveness, creates problems and restrains domestic consumption,'' Mr. Slim said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (87%); MONETARY POLICY (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); CONSUMPTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICA MOVIL SAB DE CV (92%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (58%)

TICKER: AMX (NYSE) (92%); AMX (BMV) (92%); AMOV (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%)

PERSON: CARLOS SLIM HELU (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



197 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Dogs: Wegman Unleashed

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The retrospective of William Wegman's multifarious career that opened yesterday at the Brooklyn Museum simultaneously confirms why Mr. Wegman hasn't always received the respect he deserves and why he deserves it. The short explanation -- on both counts -- is that he has been too innovatively funny for too long and on too many levels (visual, verbal, commercial and arty) for people to see the serious artist behind the inveterate jokester. He's also been funny in too many mediums for his achievement to be easily grasped. 
 And, of course, there is the dog issue. By this I mean the silken, compliant, implicitly comical Weimaraners who have been featured in some of his best videos and photographs, starting in 1970 with an unusually photogenic puppy named Man Ray. The appealing collaborations between artist and dog eventually led to calendars, greeting cards, children's books, commercials and appearances on ''Sesame Street'' and the ''Late Show With David Letterman,'' which have all confused his art-world audience, while also earning him a much larger one. 
So let this be said: dogs or no dogs, Mr. Wegman is one of the most important artists to emerge from the heady experiments of the 1970's. Despite a somewhat helter-skelter presentation, the nearly 230 artworks and nearly 100 quite short videos in ''William Wegman: Funney/Strange'' offer a total immersion in the fruits of his inquiring mind and sardonic eye. They anoint him as the most accessible and, in his own way, richly human of all Conceptual artists. 
 Initiated by the Addison Gallery of American Art at Phillips Academy Andover in Massachusetts, the show has been selected by Trevor Fairbrother and is accompanied by a book by Joan Simon, curator at large at the Whitney Museum of American art. Over all, it teems a bit too much with small, framed items. My initial reaction -- in a moment of trans-species free-association -- was that absorbing the show might be akin to herding cats. But the energetic mixing of media enables you to follow Mr. Wegman's ideas as they migrate from one form to another.
 The show includes a generous sampling of his videos, setup photographs, wittily captioned drawings, once-over-lightly Color Field history paintings and postcard-happy painted panoramas. All these, along with his general do-it-yourself style, have influenced decades of artists, the youngest of whom are insufficiently familiar with the scope of his work. Best of all, this show proves that there is much, much more to his achievement than dogs. 
 In his long and productive career, Mr. Wegman has remained as true as any of his legendary 1970's contemporaries to the belief that the artist's job is to make something that doesn't look like art. For most of his career -- longer than that of most artists his age -- Mr. Wegman, 62, has fearlessly tolerated looking silly, inconsequential or sentimental while making his art with whatever, or whoever, happened to be handy, starting with himself.
 He has favored wordplay and visual puns of all varieties, disruptions of our eye-to-mind coordination and unexpected punch lines. He was inspired by the Surrealists, as the name of his most famous dog suggests, but also by the radio comedians Bob and Ray and those late-night television commercials made in situ by the owners of used-car dealerships and appliance stores. 
 Mr. Wegman has also been guided by an entertainer's instincts: an infallible sense of the comic potential -- and thus the pathos -- of everyday ideas and objects. In this he is aided by a short attention span, a deadpan manner and a deep-seated penchant for frugality that wastes neither time, materials nor gestures. He has assiduously avoided mastery while operating with the economy of a total pro, and there is something intensely comforting in his comportment.
 Mr. Wegman was born in Holyoke, Mass., in 1943 and grew up drawing. He studied painting at the Massachusetts College of Art in Boston and then joined what he called ''the piece movement.'' While earning a graduate degree at the University of Illinois and then teaching for three years at the University of Wisconsin, he specialized in temporary installation pieces that required advanced planning, assistance and quantities of nonart materials. Toward the end of his Wisconsin sojourn, he began to yearn to work alone in the privacy of his studio, and realized that video and still photography could be his liberation. 
 Mr. Wegman secured his place in art history when he became the first person to prove that video art could be laugh-out-loud funny. He accomplished this in 1970, the year he moved to Los Angeles. There he became friends with the artists Bruce Nauman, Ed Ruscha and John Baldessari, who were not without wit themselves.
 Mr. Wegman was no slouch in front of the camera: he sang with his stomach, appeared in nothing but underpants and handbags (in his role as a door-to-door pocketbook salesman) and demonstrated how a stick and a metal chair might be construed as the latest massage equipment. But his best-known video efforts starred May Ray, who quickly became his collaborator, model and muse. 
 The videos in the Brooklyn show include the 62-second ''Milk/Floor'' of 1970-71, a brilliant little ode to Process Art performance. It opens with Mr. Wegman crawling backward on all fours, dribbling a line of milk from his mouth onto the floor. He disappears through a doorway, and seconds later, Man Ray emerges, moving forward (on all fours), efficiently lapping up the milk, until his nose hits the camera with a thud and the screen goes black. This video fulfills the first rule of classic humor: it is funny every time you see it. 
 Man Ray also figured prominently in black-and-white photographs, but the dog's greatest moment arrived two years before his death in 1982, when Mr. Wegman began working with a large color Polaroid camera. Knowing that his dog was aging and ailing, the artist set about making portraits of him in various guises and poses; the critic Sanford Schwartz compared the series to Robert Frank's classic book of photographs, ''The Americans,'' in its emotional fullness and range. On the scale of Hollywood studio portraits, the photographs bring to mind famous images of Garbo, Harpo, Carmen Miranda and others. The show includes an image of Man Ray seen in profile in a diptych, tinted silver and gold like a Warhol starlet. He's seen again being dusted with flour, which conjures up falling snow, a spotlight or perhaps heavenly rays. 
 The show offers many of Mr. Wegman's small, dashed-off captioned drawings from the early 70's. Thurberesque in word and image, these include ''Toddler Holds Couple Hostage'' and ''X Ray of Peach in Dish,'' whose title justifies the continuation of the circle that is the plate through the circle that is the peach. This cryptic, weirdly spectral image personifies the sensibility encoded in the show's title: an artist who renders funny strange by misspelling it.
 Even the most devoted Wegmaniac may be surprised by the variety and extent of his altered photographs, notable for their wonderfully upfront dumbness. In ''Cat's Cradle,'' the subject appears between the artist's upheld hands not as string, but as a series of cuts in the surface of the photograph; it is all the more strange for seeming -- for about a second -- to cast an elaborate shadow on the wall and floor. ''Attack Dog'' was once, all too obviously, an image of a Weimaraner leaping to catch a Frisbee; the animal is now chomping down on the arm of a quavering de Kooningesque figure. 
 Just as Michelangelo described his carving process as liberating figures from stone, Mr. Wegman releases the jokes trapped in the images he comes across. In the small, thrift-shop-like gouache on collage titled ''Bob and Ray,'' he ruthlessly converts an innocent family Christmas card into a tribute to his favorite comedians, and then, above the mantelpiece, he adds the familiar painting by Man Ray, the artist, of floating lips. In the pretzel-like compositions of his panoramic postcard paintings, Mr. Wegman simply extends the images from panoramic postcards out across the canvas until they have to be reconciled with the extensions emanating from other postcards. 
 Mr. Wegman's art can seem scattered, but, in fact, he rarely leaves anything behind. The cluttered, mostly green composition of a 1985 painting titled ''Furniture,'' for example, echoes both the humdrum tables and chairs of his videos, and his prevideo installation pieces. It also suggests, as do several canvases here, interesting links to irreverent German painters like Sigmar Polke and Martin Kippenberger. 
 The show closes with some new dog Polaroids that are among the best Mr. Wegman has done since his Man Ray days and emphasize the affinity for color that emerges whenever he abandons black and white. ''Strippy,'' for example, uses a puzzled Weimaraner as an armature for torn strips of brightly colored paper. Its formal verve continues in Mr. Wegman's most recent Polaroids, on view through April 8 at the Senior & Shopmaker Gallery in Chelsea, in which sheets of luminous colored Plexiglas muffle and multiply the Weimaraners' bodies and soulful faces. The Sperone Westwater Gallery, also in Chelsea, is showing a selection of early and recent work that encapsulates the span of the Brooklyn show, through April 22. 
 Mr. Wegman has done it, as the song says, his way. What he lacks in weight and depth when compared with artists like Richard Serra, Mr. Nauman and Robert Smithson, he more than makes up for with a sustained lightness whose profundity sneaks up on you.
 His best work juggles the many balls of Post-Minimalism -- process, language, performance -- with an amateurish finesse that few of his contemporaries match. He may also be the last artist to hitch a ride on the Pop Art train as it pulled out of the station. Drawing on an even broader, more pedestrian range of Americana than the Pop artists did, Mr. Wegman refused to absorb these elements into high art, or even meet them on their own terms. Instead, he refashioned them into substandard versions -- crude, lame and infinitely touching -- that lay bare their hucksterism and their sincerity. He has not only embraced Americana, but he has also become part of it, and lived to tell the tale.

''William Wegman: Funney/Strange'' is at the Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 501-6134, through May 28.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Best in show: William Wegman's ''Strippy'' (2001), a Polaroid, is part of a wide-ranging exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum. (Photo courtesy Senior & Shopmaker Gallery)(pg. E29)
''Dock Scene'' (1985), a painting by William Wegman from ''Funney/Strange'' at the Brooklyn Museum.
 ''Bob and Ray'' (1996) extrapolates on the Christmas card genre. (Photographs from the collection of the artist)(pg. E38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DOGS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (68%); CATS (61%) Art

ORGANIZATION: Brooklyn Museum

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (51%) Roberta Smith; William Wegman

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



198 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Rise In Jobless Claims

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits rose unexpectedly last week, to 303,000, the highest level this year, a government report showed on Thursday. 
 The increase of 8,000 took the number of initial claims above 300,000 for the first time since the week of Jan. 7, the Labor Department said. Economists had expected claims to dip to 290,000 from the 294,000 initially reported for the week that ended Feb. 25.
The increase pushed the four-week moving average of claims, which smoothes weekly volatility to provide a better picture of underlying trends, up by 6,250, to 293,500 -- a level economists still associate with a healthy job market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); TRENDS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Unemployment; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



199 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Data and Trade Deficit Curb Market's Early Gains

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street surrendered early gains and closed lower yesterday as a higher trade deficit and questions about the labor market contained enthusiasm over a policy change at the Bank of Japan.
 The market was cheered after the Japanese central bank signaled an end to its current interest rate policy, set in place five years ago to fight inflation and lift Japan's sagging economy. The new policy, focused less on rising prices and more on the nation's growing economic strength, encouraged United States investors worried about the Federal Reserve's stance on interest rates and inflation.
 ''Now you have the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve all with the same interest rate policy, and that's very positive,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist and senior vice president at S. W. Bach & Company. ''It's a strong indication that global central bankers will contain inflation and not necessarily choke off economic activity, which has been a big concern here.'' 
 But the session's gains slipped away by early afternoon as investors focused on increasing unemployment claims, which climbed above 300,000 for the first time in eight weeks, and awaited the Labor Department's monthly job report, due today. A new record for the nation's trade gap was also affecting investors.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.46 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,972.28. Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 6.24 points, or 0.49 percent, to 1,272.23, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 17.74 points, or 0.78 percent, to 2,249.72.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 3.56 points, or 0.49 percent, to 718.28.
 In the bond market, prices moderated as the yields on long-term Treasuries continued to exceed those of shorter-term notes. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was at 4.72 percent, from 4.73 percent on Wednesday. The yield on the two-year note was 4.71 percent, from 4.72 percent on Wednesday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 Crude oil futures moved higher, but remained more than $2 a barrel lower than last Friday's trading. A barrel of light crude settled at $60.47, up 45 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 General Motors rose 92 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $21.34. The Wall Street Journal reported that G.M. and the auto parts maker Delphi, which is under bankruptcy protection, were near a cost-cutting labor agreement. Such an agreement would avoid a possible strike at Delphi that could cripple G.M.'s production. The United Automobile Workers strongly disputed the report, however.
 Google said it would pay up to $90 million to settle a lawsuit that claimed the company overcharged advertising customers for Internet sales referrals. Google fell $10.88, or 3 percent, to $343.
 The NYSE Group Inc. dropped $3.90, or 4.9 percent, to $76.10 in its second day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange as investors took profits after its 25 percent gain from the previous session.
 Shares of Biogen Idec rose $2.03, or almost 4.5 percent, to $47.54, after a United States regulatory panel recommended returning the company's multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri to the market, with restrictions to address safety risks.
 Intuit gained $3.22, or 6.6 percent, to close at $51.73, after it predicted that its quarterly profit would be better than expected, primarily because more people were buying the online version of its market-leading tax preparation software. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of 10-year Treasury notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 97.955
High Yield: 4.760
Low Yield: 4.710
Median Yield: 4.747
Total applied for: $22,946,805
Accepted: $8,000,026
Noncompetitive: $19,805
Interest set at: 4 3/5rsaquo 4/5
The 10-year notes mature Feb. 15, 2016.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since Dec. (Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since Dec. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); GOOGLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (51%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006



200 of 689 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: For Tobacco, Stealth Marketing Is the Norm 

BYLINE: By Julie Bosman

 BODY:
WEDNESDAY'S announcement came as little surprise to tobacco companies and their opponents: cigarette sales had fallen once again, hitting a 55-year low. 
 Tobacco companies have been on the defensive since reaching a landmark $246 billion settlement with the states in 1998, and cigarette sales in the United States have declined more than 20 percent since then. In addition, many states and city governments have passed laws banning smoking in workplaces, restaurants and bars.
But tobacco companies, which are able to vastly outspend antitobacco groups, may still be winning the marketing wars. While tobacco companies have abandoned most conventional advertising, they are using other means to get their point across. Antismoking groups, on the other hand, are now struggling to find the money to maintain even a small-scale campaign. 
 According to the Federal Trade Commission, tobacco companies spent more than $15.1 billion in 2003 to market their product in the United States, up from $12.4 billion in 2002, despite the diminishing importance of the market.
 International tobacco sales, for example, now represent 46 percent of total revenue for Altria, the parent company of Philip Morris U.S.A., while domestic tobacco sales are 19 percent. (The remainder is revenue from Kraft, which is also part of Altria.)
 On the other side, the most visible antismoking group, the American Legacy Foundation, which came into being as a result of the settlement, has sharply cut its advertising budget. The foundation received financing from the initial tobacco settlement in 1998, getting up to $300 million a year from 1999 to 2003, and investing about 50 percent of the money. But now that the annual payments have ended, the foundation's budget is largely derived from the proceeds of those investments. It would not disclose its current budget.
 ''It truly is a David versus Goliath scenario,'' said Joseph Martyak, the executive vice president for marketing, communications and policy for the American Legacy Foundation. The foundation's marketing has centered on its Truth campaign, an effort created by Arnold Worldwide, a unit of Havas, and Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, that began in 2000 and has been credited with reducing teenage smoking. A report in the March 2005 issue of The American Journal of Public Health attributed 22 percent of the decline in youth smoking to the campaign.
 Cigarette marketing, meanwhile, has largely gone under the radar. After the 1998 settlement, regulations were placed on tobacco advertising, limiting its reach in traditional media. Tobacco companies agreed to restrictions outlawing Joe Camel and other cartoon animals, banning outdoor advertisements everywhere and banning ads in magazines that are aimed at younger readers. 
 For its part, Philip Morris says it has not placed advertising in newspapers or magazines since 2004. Instead, tobacco companies have employed tactics like direct mail, coupon discounts and promotional efforts for its database of smokers. 
 ''That's where we really do most of our communications,'' said Dana Bolden, a spokesman for Philip Morris USA.
 In a speech to a marketing association in Albany last year, Pascal Fernandez, the vice president for brand management at Philip Morris USA, said customers could get clothes and shopping sprees by redeeming bar codes from cigarette packages.
 Tobacco companies have also tried to woo customers with product options: in 2004, Philip Morris introduced the Marlboro Menthol 72, a shorter cigarette intended for a shorter smoking break, and it promotes its discount cigarettes like Basic for smokers who balk at higher prices.
 Tobacco companies have also had to deal with laws restricting smoking in public places in some states. In New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg recently proposed a 50-cent increase in the city's cigarette tax. The companies have responded by getting creative. In January, the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company opened the Marshall McGearty Tobacco Lounge in Chicago, just as a citywide ban on smoking took effect. The lounge, dedicated to cigarette smoking, says it is exempt from the law because it falls under the ''tobacco retail store'' category.
 Antitobacco groups have also tried to sway public opinion by taking the issue to Hollywood. Stanton Glantz, an antitobacco researcher and professor at the University of California, San Francisco, has proposed an automatic R rating for movies that depict smoking, and in November, a group of attorneys general from 32 states asked major movie studios to insert public-service announcements on DVD's of movies that depict smoking.
 Of course, smoking in Hollywood movies is far from extinct. Cigarettes made appearances in several of the films nominated for best picture at this year's Academy Awards, including ''Brokeback Mountain,'' ''Good Night, and Good Luck'' and ''Capote.'' (It's worth pointing out that none are set in the present day.) 
 But in ''Thank You for Smoking,'' a satire about tobacco companies adapted from a 1994 novel by Christopher Buckley, there is no smoking at all. The movie is scheduled for release next Friday.
 Mr. Buckley said Jason Reitman, the director, purposely omitted any smoking. ''The movie, as he put it, is about other things,'' Mr. Buckley said in an e-mail message. ''But it was very deliberate, and I think rather cool.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The American Legacy Foundation has a series of antismoking TV ad campaigns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO MFG (91%); SMOKING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AIRLINES (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); SMOKING BANS (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (75%); DATABASE MARKETING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); CITIES (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); RETAIL COUPONS (55%) Airlines and Airplanes; Pilots; Bankruptcies; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Labor; Accidents and Safety; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Working Hours; Airlines and Airplanes; Smoking and Tobacco; Advertising and Marketing; Sales; Suits and Litigation; Consumer Protection; Coupons; States (US); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Smoking and Tobacco; Urban Areas; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (92%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (63%); HAVAS SA (58%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%) York College; Federal Trade Commission; American Legacy Foundation

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (92%); HAV (PAR) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (52%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: Maxine E Lubner; Matthew L Wald; Julie Bosman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

 
