

601 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: At Aqueduct, One Racetrack, Different Turfs

BYLINE: By HUNTER ATKINS

 BODY:
The opening of Resorts World's new neon-blazing casino at the graying 117-year-old Aqueduct Racetrack -- the ''racino'' -- is more of a culture clash than a gambling hybrid.
The horse-race handicappers, with their ancient rituals, still tend to crowd the track in Queens and its less-than-glamorous environs, enjoying the daylong ebb and flow of studying the daily racing form and waiting for bursts of thoroughbred action.
Then there are the newcomers: casino lovers flocking to an array of 2,500 glowing monitors and electronic table games, and feverishly depositing dollar after dollar in hopes of an instant jackpot.
And so while the racetrack clubhouse is physically connected to the new casino, there's not a whole lot of cross-pollination among the clientele. 
On a recent Thursday morning, Tony Monk Sr. thumbed through a racing form in a row of folding chairs in the racetrack clubhouse while his son Anthony Jr. swirled his fingers across a touch screen at the casino.
Tony Sr., 77, is a track regular from Bedford-Stuyvesant and a former Aqueduct betting clerk. He has been gambling for 65 years. Anthony began spending time at the racetrack two years ago in an effort to better connect with his father.
''Bottom line, we didn't really have that relationship,'' Anthony, 32, said. ''He never was really a family man.''
He is not certain what his father did every day to earn a living. Still, Anthony fondly remembered watching his father preach at Monk's Memorial Church on Fulton Street. He admired his father's swagger as he rubbed shoulders with New York politicians and activists like the Rev. Al Sharpton and Louis Farrakhan.
Spending time with his father at the track, Anthony discovered a man he hardly knew and a relationship he did not expect to ever have.
But their routine changed after Anthony was lured away from the track by the electronic craps machines when the casino opened its doors Oct. 28.
Now the father and son meet in the morning. And then they split.
On this day last month, though, Tony Sr. opted to at least try the casino life. If briefly.
With time to spare before the first race of the day, Tony Sr. ventured beyond his comfortable habitat to try his luck at a slot machine. He left the gray rug, which was spotted with stains, and crossed over to a fuzzy carpet, a blue oasis of concentric circles. Chimes and jingles from the new machines gradually replaced the chatter of the clubhouse. Sunlight disappeared as he reached the casino floor. Chandeliers and neon monitors illuminated the room.
Tony Sr. stopped at Majestic Sea, a slot machine with images of seashells, starfish and Neptune's trident. He stood behind the seat, rather than sitting down.
After reaching over the chair to deposit a dollar bill, he wagered 90 cents on his first bet. He lost it all with his single press of the button.
''It's that fast,'' Tony Sr. said with his deep, scratchy Southern accent, revealing his Virginia roots. ''No control. I can control the horse.''
Eager to get back to the track, Tony Sr. gave away his remaining 10 cents. He returned to his folding chair in the clubhouse, pushed his black fedora aside and started poring over the racing form.
''I have skills handicapping,'' Tony Sr. said. ''When it comes to them machines, it's no skills. Just people trying to get lucky. Once my money goes in that machine, it's all over.''
Developing a strategy, rather than yanking a lever or pushing a button, is what Tony Sr. said makes him a professional, not a ''sucker.''
According to Tony Sr. and another track veteran, Frankie Burke, the horse is less important than the person holding the reins. Burke was sitting in the front row outside at the track before the first race, mulling over the field of jockeys as he let out a few puffs from his pipe.
Aqueduct was love at first sight for Burke, 55. As an eighth grader at nearby Our Lady of Perpetual Help School, Burke would rush to the window when the nun's back was turned and catch a glimpse of the thoroughbreds striding around the bend.
''We would hear the jets coming in and roaring, but this was a different roar,'' Burke said, referring to landings at the area airports. He then let out a roar to mimic a race crowd erupting. ''Tens of thousands of people,'' he said.
Now bushy-bearded and on disability after injuring his back as a construction engineer, Burke attends Aqueduct every day he can. He enjoys what he called the natural beauty of the track. He gazed at a tractor manicuring the dirt and said it reminded him of his childhood urge to ride one. He was outfitted with his daily good luck accessories: a calabash pipe and a New York Giants sweatshirt stained with paint and singed from tobacco embers blown out by the wind.
It takes only $20 to fill a leisurely day at the racetrack. Burke and Tony Sr. usually spend just $1 a race, with the hope of winning long-shot bets. The thought of looking into the face of a machine and quickly burning through hundreds of dollars deeply upset Burke.
''With all the noise, it's an addiction,'' Burke said. ''It makes a loner out of you.''
For all their calculations and trade secrets, neither Burke's nor Tony Sr.'s horses finished in the money in the opening race.
Anthony, Tony's son, mocked the idea that a handicapping formula gave a gambler any more of an advantage than his betting method of gripping the craps machine and praying for a winner.
''You say you're the best handicapper, but you only win one out of nine,'' the son said of his father's longtime love, noting that racing wagers were threatened by the human element, like a last-minute scratch or a jockey who pulled back before the finish line. ''That don't make sense to me.''
Unemployed since April after not getting enough work as a chimney sweep, Anthony called electronic craps his new job. He relies on previous winnings and his earnings from infrequent odd jobs to finance his play. He used to travel in from Newark or Brooklyn three days a week, but he started gambling every day after being one of 65,000 people to pack the racino on its opening weekend.
As his father was just settling in for a day of horse racing, Anthony blew through his $50 ration in 15 minutes. He returned to the craps machines a while later and ran into a new gambling buddy named Chris.
''It's more lit up here, it's more alive,'' said Chris, who occasionally bet the horses but is now devoted to the casino. ''Over there, it's kind of dingy. Over there, everybody looks tense.''
Trying to earn back the $100 that he had lost, Chris deposited another $100. He immediately offered Anthony an electronic roll of the dice. During Anthony's run, Chris pitched an idea for a video he wants to film and put on the Internet, where he will bet $1,000 every day for 10 days and edit together clips of all the jackpots he hits.
''It will inspire people to come here because they will win,'' he said enthusiastically.
Anthony lasted 18 rolls, earning back half of Chris's losses.
Handicapping requires a patience that Anthony said he has never had. He prefers the fast-paced, nonstop games and the quick, frequent thrills of throwing dice. Even if it is a computer graphic.
''You still got the feel even though it's a screen,'' Anthony said.
Anthony left the craps machine to light a cigarette on the terrace, which opened to a vast view of the track. It was vibrant green and golden under an afternoon sun that had broken through an overcast sky.
In another world, Tony Sr. was buried in a new page of the racing form. His brow was furrowed until he glanced up to catch the highlights on eight television screens.
He said he was down after six races. He would not say how much.
At the end of the day, Tony Sr. and his son -- and the faithful gamblers with whom they identify -- are very much alike. Each thumbs his nose at the suckers at the other end of Aqueduct. And then they come back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Far left, following a race from the grandstand and hoping a long shot comes in. Left, plenty of losing tickets can be found on the grandstand floor.
Fans in the grandstand ready for racing at 117-year-old Aqueduct Racetrack. Connected to the clubhouse is a new casino featuring slot machines and electronic table games.
 Wilferdo Arvelo, a longtime Aqueduct patron from Manhattan's Lower East Side, at a betting window, pondering his wagers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CASINOS (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); GAMING (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (70%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



602 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 574 words

PERSON: Philip Burrell 

HEADLINE: Philip Burrell, 57, Jamaican Record Producer

BYLINE: By ROB KENNER

 BODY:
Philip Burrell, one of the most prolific and influential Jamaican record producers of the last 20 years, died on Dec. 3 in Kingston, Jamaica. He was 57.
The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Carmelita Bailey Burrell.
Mr. Burrell churned out two decades' worth of hit records and championed future reggae stars like Sanchez, Pinchers, Luciano and Sizzla. But his most important achievement was upholding the music's great sonic and spiritual traditions.
Like his predecessors Joe Gibbs and Junjo Lawes, Mr. Burrell -- better known simply as Fattis -- infused classic roots reggae with a contemporary edge. He kept Jamaica's best musicians employed when drum machines and computers were putting them out of work. And he held his artists to a higher moral standard than most, insisting on socially responsible messages in his music. 
''You cannot measure his contribution to the reggae industry,'' said his fellow producer Donovan Germain of Penthouse Records, which distributed Mr. Burrell's music. ''Not only as a producer but also a manager. He didn't just seek out the established artists. He was always giving new artists that nobody knew about an opportunity.''
Born on July 23, 1954, in the Trenchtown section of Kingston, a place as musically rich as it was economically poor, Mr. Burrell immigrated to England with his family when he was 5 and returned to Jamaica as a teenager. Starting in 1984, when he established the short-lived Lions & Kings label, Mr. Burrell carved out a career in the rough-and-tumble reggae business in the years after Bob Marley's death, when the sometimes bawdy dancehall style was beginning to dominate and the music's future seemed uncertain.
In the late 1980s he founded Exterminator Records, later renamed Xterminator.
''Philip said he wanted to eliminate slackness from the music,'' his wife said, using a Jamaican slang term for sexually explicit lyrics. ''That's the meaning of the name.''
Although some of the label's early releases had violent or explicit themes, he shifted to strictly positive lyrics.
''He's all for cultural music, clean music,'' Mrs. Burrell added, ''because he wants his music to go all around the world and he wants everybody to listen.''
He came closest to that goal with Ini Kamoze's 1990 single ''Hot Stepper,'' which was later updated by another producer and then remixed into a No. 1 single in the United States. Beyonce interpolated Mr. Burrell's original version of the song into ''Baby Boy,'' her hit duet with the dancehall artist Sean Paul.
''The pain and care that Fattis took with his music is incomparable,'' said Luciano, who was managed by Mr. Burrell through most of the 1990s, and whose second album for Exterminator Records, ''Where There Is Life,'' landed him a contract with Chris Blackwell's Island Jamaica imprint. When Luciano went on tour, Mr. Burrell insisted that his renowned studio band, the Firehouse Crew, accompany him.
His son Kareem Burrell, who collaborated on his most recent productions, of the up-and-coming artists Jesse Royal and Kayla Bliss, said Mr. Burrell taught him ''to know what you stand for, stay focused, and just stick to uplifting music, music with a message.''
Mr. Burrell suffered a mild stroke and was hospitalized two weeks before his death. He had recently returned from a trip to Zimbabwe with the singer Cocoa Tea.
In addition to his wife and son, he is survived by his sister, Edris Millicent Burrell, and seven other children.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philip Burrell, left, and the reggae singer Half Pint in 1986. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID CORIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%)

BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAMAICA (94%); ENGLAND (69%); UNITED STATES (50%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



603 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Bigger Share Of State Cash For Medicaid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Medicaid has steadily eaten up a growing share of state budgets over the past three years, while education has been getting a smaller slice of the pie.
That is one of the changes that the lingering economic downturn and the changing American economy have wrought on state finances, according to an analysis of state spending over the last few years released Tuesday by the National Association of State Budget Officers. 
The increased spending on Medicaid, the state and federal health program for the poor, was driven by steadily rising medical costs, an infusion of money from the federal stimulus bill and a significant rise in the number of people who became poor enough to qualify for the program as the downturn wore on. The Medicaid program accounted for 21.9 percent of all state expenditures in 2009 and 22.3 percent in 2010, and is estimated to account for 23.6 percent in 2011, the report found.
At the same time the share spent on elementary and secondary education has declined, dropping to 20.1 percent in 2011 from 21.5 percent of all state expenditures in 2009.
Education used to make up a bigger share of state spending. When the association first began compiling the report in 1987, elementary and secondary education made up the biggest share of state spending, and higher education the second-biggest share. Medicaid surpassed higher education as the second-biggest state program in 1990, and in 2003 it became largest state program for the first time. Since then it has vied with schools for the biggest share of state spending, but for the past three years it has been in the lead, with an increasing margin.
The report said that after the recession hit, spending from state funds declined in 2009 and 2010, but federal aid from the stimulus package allowed states to continue to increase overall spending. But a summary warned that the uncertain economy, the likelihood of reduced federal aid, the expected costs from the health care overhaul and continuing pressure to pay for pensions and health care for retired workers means that ''states are likely to face austere budgets for at least the next several years and will continue to make difficult spending decisions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); MEDICAID (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



604 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Still on Patrol After Two Decades, Valued but Rare

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER; Joseph Goldstein contributed reporting.

 BODY:
They may be a little less swift on their feet or nimble in a fight, but despite the perils of their job, many have never lost their love for the electricity and unpredictability of the streets.
And these veterans are often highly valued by the New York Police Department because they have the experience and street smarts to know, say, how not to inflame a family quarrel or infuriate a driver during a traffic stop. So, unlike most of their colleagues, when these rank-and-file police officers become eligible to retire after 20 years, they choose to stay on the job, doing exactly what they have been doing.
A spotlight was thrown on this type of seasoned law enforcer by the killing early Monday of Officer Peter J. Figoski, 47, of West Babylon, N.Y., who was shot in the face after he and his partner responded to a robbery at a house in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn. 
Officer Figoski had been on the force for 22 years and had made 209 arrests, half of them for felonies, yet he did not choose to retire and was working the midnight shift in one of the city's highest-crime areas. He could have quit two years ago with a pension equal to at least 50 percent of his salary, an amount that can be substantially augmented with overtime. The average annual police officer pension in 2009 was $58,563, which does not include an annual supplement of about $12,000.
Officer Figoski was one of a rare breed. According to the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, only 863 of the city's 34,805 officers still hold the rank of police officer after 20 years. They are officers who may not want desk jobs or the responsibilities and headaches of being a supervisor, and are either not interested in or do not feel qualified to do the painstaking spadework of investigation.
''These are guys who like listening to the radio and going to that job, the scene,'' said Detective Andrew Eaton, 37, who spent nine years on patrol before becoming an investigator working in the Midtown South precinct. ''You don't know who's going to be needing your help, who's calling you. You see people at their best and their worst.''
Other veterans choose to stay in a routine police job because, with seniority carving them a predictable schedule, they can moonlight. And each year of duty past 20 increases their pension. Other factors also influence a decision: whether a spouse works, whether children are still at home, the state of the economy (experts suspect that more officers are delaying retirement because of the feeble job market).
Officer Figoski was a divorced father of four girls, two of them in college. A Manhattan police officer who once worked the same Brooklyn tour as Officer Figoski said that Officer Figoski confided to him a year ago, when they were chatting at a wake for an officer, that he wanted to better support his children.
''I'm staying 25'' years, the officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, recalled Officer Figoski saying. ''Technically, he shouldn't have been in the game anymore. He should have been somewhere else.''
''Police work,'' he added, ''is a young man's game.''
For a vast majority of officers, whose top base pay is $76,488, the 20-year retirement date is a milestone they yearn for. They can receive their pensions while starting second careers in security or construction, starting their own businesses, or working for police agencies in states that hire older officers.
''Many have it down to the day when they're going to leave; they want to get out as quickly as possible,'' said Joseph Pollini, a former supervisor of a homicide squad who is deputy chairman of the law and police science department at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan.
That was not always the case. ''When I came on the job, everyone had 20 years or more,'' said Lou Matarazzo, legislative director of the Detectives' Endowment Association, another police union. ''Today they come in younger and leave early.'' The main reason is that pensions have mushroomed as a result of collective bargaining.
For those who stay, the opportunities for assignments like counterterrorism or undercover work have given officers alternatives to patrolling. ''An officer still working a radio car after 20 years is a rare phenomenon,'' said William J. Bratton, a former New York police commissioner.
Nationally, only 16 percent of the police and correction officers and others in law enforcement who were killed in 2010 had worked for more than 20 years, according to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund. Still, departments like to have a blend of older and younger officers. Veterans can impart wisdom to rookies and size up situations with more poise.
''A young police officer tends to take a job for power,'' Mr. Pollini said. ''They may not think as much as they should, while a seasoned police officer will stay calm.''
Also, he said, suspects ''are more prone to listen to somebody who's been on the force 20 years than someone who's the age of your children or grandchildren.''
The drawback in some cases, Mr. Pollini said, is that sometimes veteran officers ''don't want to encounter that arrest at the end of your shift because you have your business to go to.'' Filling out paperwork can be time-consuming and is a responsibility most officers detest.
Jon M. Shane, 45, a professor of criminal justice at John Jay who retired as a police captain in Newark, said that many veterans stayed on because ''despite the trials and tribulations, they've mastered the tasks of policing and enjoy the camaraderie.''
''So coming to work is not a chore for them,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DETECTIVE ANDREW EATON, speaking about colleagues who choose to remain rank-and-file officers for many years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); FELONIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



605 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Providence Puts Focus On Home for Knowledge

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ABBOTT

 BODY:
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- When Brown University opened its new $45 million medical school in August about a mile from its campus here, it was the institution's first academic department to be located away from its home on College Hill overlooking downtown Providence.
Brown's reasons were twofold: there was little room on its campus for a building large enough for an Ivy League medical school, and it would bolster a 360-acre so-called Knowledge District that would draw high-tech, high-wage jobs to Rhode Island, which was among the hardest-hit states in the recession.
The Warren Alpert Medical School is in a converted, four-story, 134,000-square-foot jewelry factory building that dates to 1928. At a ribbon-cutting ceremony in August, Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, said,''The future is the double helix,'' referring to the shape of DNA, ''and that's what this building is going to allow.''
The Knowledge District is three years in the making, and involves a combination of financial incentives, rezoning and coordinated planning among Providence's major hospitals, colleges and universities. 
In addition to the medical school, the toy maker Hasbro, which has its headquarters in nearby Pawtucket, and 38 Studios, a video game company started by the former Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling, are moving into existing buildings in the Knowledge District.
The state, through its Economic Development Corporation, agreed to a $1.6 million sales tax exemption for Hasbro, which said it would create 284 new full-time jobs, and a $75 million loan guarantee for 38 Studios, which has promised to bring 450 jobs to Providence.
Several years ago, in what Laurie White, the president of the area Chamber of Commerce, called a ''grass-roots effort,'' prominent figures in the public and private sectors came together to create a strategy for Providence's economic future. The city's manufacturing base was waning, and the luster of the city's so-called Renaissance in the 1990s, which focused on the arts as a means of revitalizing, was losing steam.
The resulting blueprint called for an economy based on ''meds and eds,'' as the hospitals and colleges are sometimes called, in a district with a lot of underutilized factory and office space, as well as vacant land. The state's governor, Lincoln D. Chafee, an independent, has embraced this vision and called Brown's new medical school a ''terrific catalyst'' for the new district.
''Good things are happening here,'' Mr. Chafee said.
After he was elected in 2010, Mr. Chafee traveled to Baltimore, Houston and Pittsburgh to tour the University of Maryland Medical Center & BioPark, the Texas Medical Center and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, all of which were attracting high-tech and research companies. He said he came away from those trips impressed that growth was occurring there despite the sluggish economy, and was persuaded that Providence had the assets needed to make the concept work in Rhode Island.
In addition to Brown, other major institutions in Providence include the Rhode Island School of Design, Providence College, Johnson & Wales University, Rhode Island Hospital and Women & Infants Hospital.
''It's just a good fit,'' Mr. Chafee said.
Hasbro chose to expand in Providence because the young talent it needed to attract to its gaming division preferred an attractive, urban environment, said Dolph Johnson, Hasbro's senior vice president for global human resources. The toy maker, which employs approximately 6,000 worldwide and 1,700 in Rhode Island, also wanted to invest in the city's future, he said.
For Brown, the decision to move its medical school into another part of the city came in 2007 after an internal planning process revealed that it essentially had no choice if the university wanted to grow, said Richard Spies, Brown's executive vice president for planning. New science buildings, in particular, require a sizable footprint and significant infrastructure, two requirements not readily available in historic College Hill, he said.
''Our capacity to grow was not zero,'' he said, ''but it was clearly limited.''
A few years earlier, in its first major foray off College Hill, Brown opened its Laboratories for Molecular Medicine in the city's Jewelry District, a neighborhood about a mile away from Brown that is included in the Knowledge District. At that time, talk of creating a knowledge economy was just starting to take off, driven in part by a highway relocation project that has opened up 19 developable acres in the city. The lab, like the medical school, is located in a renovated jewelry factory. It employs 150 people.
The university also moved its fund-raising offices and technical support team to the Jewelry District in the mid-1990s. Placing the new medical school in the district was a natural follow-up, Mr. Spies said.
Among other features, the new medical school has a 16-room ''clinical simulation suite'' with practice exam rooms and a cafe on the first floor.
The medical school has brought some 400 students and 50 faculty members to the Knowledge District. Combined with the jobs promised by Hasbro and 38 Studios, and employees who work for existing companies in the area, new ''knowledge economy'' jobs in Providence number more than 1,000.
To foster more jobs, a group overseeing the growth of the knowledge economy, the Innovation Providence Implementation Council, has awarded $410,000 in seed money to companies, institutions and individuals in the areas of health care, technology, research and design, alternative energy and work force development. The grants are financed by sources including foundations, the chamber and the United States Economic Development Administration.
But Rhode Island still has a long way to go; its unemployment rate of 10.4 percent in October was more than a percentage point above the national average.
The Knowledge District is at an early stage of development, Mr. Spies said, and the people who are working and studying there report that they feel a bit like pioneers. There are small start-up companies in the district, but the neighborhood is still a bit ''thin'' in terms of the number of companies and people working there. Since synergy is an underlying philosophy behind the knowledge economy, there is some concern that growth will not happen fast enough to create the critical mass envisioned, he and others said.
Mr. Spies said he was optimistic that significant economic growth would come, but cautioned that new businesses in the Knowledge District needed to stay true to the planners' vision.
Ms. White concurred, but she cautioned it would take time. ''Keeping people's expectations in check is important,'' she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about the move of Brown University's medical school to a renovated factory building in Providence, R.I., described a previous use of the building incorrectly. It once housed Brier Manufacturing, a costume jewelry maker; it was not the home of a watchband factory. (Brown owns a nearby building that was the home of Speidel, which makes the Twist-O-Flex watchband.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, in a converted factory in Providence's ''Knowledge District.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN CONATY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); BASEBALL (76%); ZONING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (50%); SALES TAX (50%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%)

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (92%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: LINCOLN CHAFEE (74%); JACK REED (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (69%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (69%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011



606 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Bank Executives Settle F.D.I.C. Lawsuit

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Former executives at Washington Mutual have reached a $64 million agreement to settle a civil lawsuit with the government, according to officials with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which pursued the case after the savings and loan collapsed in 2008. 
The deal is one of the larger amounts recovered in a financial crisis case, though only about $400,000 in total will be paid by the executives, according to a person briefed on the settlement but not authorized to discuss it. The F.D.I.C. initially sought $900 million in the case, which it filed in March.
Much of the settlement will come from insurance policies the company took out for the executives, who are also releasing Washington Mutual's estate from some financial claims they have against it. The money in the settlement will be distributed among Washington Mutual's creditors. It will not benefit the F.D.I.C. fund because the fund did not lose money when Washington Mutual foundered and was sold in part to JPMorgan Chase & Company, according to F.D.I.C. officials.
The settlement, which was reported in The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday, is expected to be formally announced within the next week, the officials said.
The executives in the suit are Kerry Killinger, the company's former chief executive; Stephen Rotella, its former president; and David C. Schneider, its former home loans president.
The F.D.I.C. accused the executives of pushing Washington Mutual, which was based in Seattle, to the brink by making risky bets to reap short-term profits for themselves. In an unusual move, the F.D.I.C. also accused the wives of Mr. Killinger and Mr. Rotella of helping them shield some of the compensation from the company from legal claims. The wives will also be released from the suit as part of the settlement.
The executives will neither admit nor deny wrongdoing in the settlement, according to another person briefed on it but not authorized to discuss it. The government has faced recent criticism over its willingness to settle cases without extracting admissions of guilt. In November, a federal judge in New York denounced that practice when he refused to approve a settlement between Citigroup and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Justice Department has already closed its criminal investigation into officials at Washington Mutual, saying last summer that its investigators had ''concluded that the evidence does not meet the exacting standards for criminal charges in connection with the bank's failure.''
After Washington Mutual collapsed, Mr. Schneider stayed on as a mortgage servicing executive at JPMorgan. Mr. Rotella, who joined the company in 2005 to try to turn it around, is now a consultant.
In March, Mr. Rotella wrote in an e-mail to friends, which was circulated in the media, that he felt the suit was unfair and that he and other managers had been working to put Washington Mutual on a better footing by decreasing exposures to risky mortgages.
Lawyers for the executives declined to comment on Tuesday. A spokesman for JPMorgan, which is not involved in the settlement, declined to comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Rotella, Washington Mutual's former president.
Kerry Killinger, the company's former chief executive.
 David C. Schneider, former president of home loans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); JUDGES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: KERRY K KILLINGER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



607 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Find a Welcome Distraction

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama bluntly acknowledged Tuesday that winning a second term was ''not a slam-dunk,'' but a development outside his control is bolstering Democratic spirits: the prospect of a drawn-out Republican battle between Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich.
As the president, his top donors and advisers gathered here for year-end campaign briefings, the unruly Republican primary provided a welcome distraction for Democrats who are nervous about the general election. 
''The longer this race goes, the more you're going to see these Republican candidates try to mortgage the general election to try and win the primary campaign,'' said David Axelrod, the chief strategist for the president's re-election campaign. He added, ''They're being tugged to the right every day.''
It remains an open question whether Mr. Axelrod's assessment proves true. An extended nominating contest could also stir enthusiasm among Republicans and make the party's ultimate nominee a stronger candidate -- as it did for Mr. Obama in 2008, after defeating Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in a protracted fight for delegates in nearly every corner of the country.
In any case, the Obama team, while not letting up its forceful assault on Mr. Romney, is increasingly preparing for the possibility that Mr. Gingrich could be the nominee. And it has spent the last eight months building a robust organization to counter the stiff political and economic head winds facing the campaign. Early polls in important states show significant challenges ahead.
''It's understandable if people are not feeling as chipper as they were back in 2008,'' Mr. Obama said, speaking to members of his campaign's national finance committee at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. ''There's going to be some skepticism. There's going to be some push-back.''
Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the decision by the president's aides to aggressively weigh in on the Republican race illustrated the Democrats' fears. He dismissed the suggestion that a long contest would damage Republicans.
''During the primary process, Republicans will be traveling the country making the case against Barack Obama,'' Mr. Priebus said. ''The more they hear from our candidates, the more enthusiastic voters will be to change direction at the White House.''
The president's team is stepping into re-election mode. A group of his political advisers, including Mr. Axelrod, flew from the Chicago campaign headquarters to Washington to meet with donors and reporters separately, giving the first formal briefings on the state of the 2012 election.
Several advisers said they have been studying the 2004 re-election strategy of President George W. Bush, whose advisers at this point in the election cycle had started to focus the brunt of their attacks on Howard Dean, who was leading in the Iowa polls. But after Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts came on strong in the final weeks before the caucuses, Mr. Dean fell from view.
''It would be nuts for us to be in the forecasting business,'' Mr. Axelrod said.
In the briefing to reporters, Mr. Gingrich was the subject of much discussion and several jokes.
''Newt is back,'' Mr. Axelrod told reporters. He added, ''He's back as the lion in winter. That's L-I-O-N by the way. I don't want to stir up any trouble.''
But a few moments later, he did just that. He said it remained to be seen how Mr. Gingrich would fare under the scrutiny he is enduring, and he reprised an old joke from a Chicago political figure about how politicians often struggle to succeed the higher they climb.
''Just remember, the higher a monkey climbs on a pole, the more you can see his butt,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''So, you know, the speaker is very high on the pole right now, and we'll see how people like the view.''
Mr. Axelrod also highlighted passages of the speech that Mr. Obama delivered in Kansas last week that outlined his populist message. They said the path to winning a second term was through independent voters and women, as well as a general message of fighting for the middle class and against income equality.
The president has repeatedly maintained that he is not paying close attention to the lively Republican contest. The same cannot be said for his advisers. At a briefing on Tuesday, Jim Messina, the campaign manager, presented a slide show, based on current polling, showing a competitive match between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney.
Three weeks before the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Messina also drew attention to a little-known fact: The biggest organization in Iowa belongs to Team Obama, which has eight offices in the state, which could play a critical role in the general election.
''We have more staffers on the ground than any other campaign,'' Mr. Messina said with a smile. He added, ''You have to have infrastructure to turn out voters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke to fund-raisers in Washington on Tuesday as part of year-end briefings on the 2012 presidential campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: A Survey of Democratic Presidential Strategies: President Obama's political strategists have identified a variety of paths to reach the 270 electoral votes he needs to win re-election. Each starts with John Kerry's 2004 victories as a baseline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



608 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Extension Of Cut to Payroll Taxes

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Defying a veto threat from President Obama, the House on Tuesday passed a bill extending a cut in Social Security payroll taxes for 160 million Americans for another year. But the Democratic majority in the Senate vowed to reject the measure because of objections to other provisions, including one to speed construction of an oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf Coast.
The 234-to-193 vote set the stage for negotiations between the House and the Senate that were likely to continue into the weekend. 
The vote was a victory for Speaker John A. Boehner. House Democrats voted overwhelmingly against the bill, forcing Mr. Boehner to rely on Republicans, including many conservatives who had initially expressed doubts about the economic value of extending the payroll tax cut.
In general, the vote followed party lines. Ten Democrats voted for the bill, and 14 Republicans voted against it.
Less than an hour after the vote, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, went to the Senate floor and declared: ''The bill passed by House Republicans tonight is a pointless partisan exercise. The bill is dead on arrival in the Senate. It was dead before it got to the Senate.''
Portrayed by House Republican leaders as an engine of job creation, the payroll tax bill became entangled Tuesday with a separate omnibus spending bill to finance much of the government for the remainder of the current fiscal year.
Democrats threatened to delay action on the spending bill to ensure that Republicans would address their concerns about the Keystone XL pipeline and other provisions of the tax measure.
The pileup of important legislation created a typical end-of-the-year muddle as lawmakers raced to finish work and leave town for the holidays.
Members of both parties said the payroll tax cut would put money in the pockets of consumers, increasing the demand for goods and services and shoring up a weak economy.
The bill would extend jobless benefits for some of the unemployed, while reducing the maximum number of weeks of benefits that a worker could receive.
It would also block certain air pollution rules for industrial boilers and incinerators; freeze the pay of many federal employees through 2013; increase Medicare premiums for affluent beneficiaries; prevent a deep cut in Medicare payments to doctors; and eliminate more than $20 billion of spending planned under Mr. Obama's new health care law.
Representative David Dreier, Republican of California, said the bill deserved bipartisan support because the pipeline ''will create 20,000 to 25,000 jobs immediately and reduce dependence on Middle Eastern oil while increasing cooperation with our close neighbor to the north, Canada.''
But Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the bill was ''loaded up with goodies to mollify the extreme right wing that is in charge of this House.'' And the No. 2 House Democrat, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, urged his caucus to vote no.
''This is a partisan bill sticking a finger in the eye of those who disagree with the policies included, simply for the purpose of energizing a small political base in their party,'' Mr. Hoyer said.
Republicans ''included things that clearly are unacceptable to the president,'' like the pipeline, Mr. Hoyer said. ''They know this is not going to pass the Senate.''
Mr. Boehner and the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said House and Senate negotiators had nearly reached agreement on the omnibus spending bill. But, they said, Mr. Reid was holding it up.
''The Senate majority leader now says he's willing to hold up a bipartisan bill to fund our troops, border security and other federal responsibilities, rather than let the president decide if this pipeline project should move forward,'' Mr. McConnell said.
Senator Reid defended his tactics, saying: ''I am very disappointed in what the speaker has done to his payroll tax proposal to get Tea Party votes. Speaker Boehner had to add ideological candy coating to his bill to get rebellious rank-and-file Republicans on board.''
Senate Democrats said they had been hoping to take up the House bill Tuesday night, so they could shoot it down, but they said Republicans wanted more time. While Mr. Reid refused to back away from his party's idea of paying for the payroll tax holiday with a surcharge on income over $1 million, it appeared that the idea was losing steam, and that some form of compromise would be forged.
''At the end of the day, the payroll tax cut will be extended,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. ''Obviously what's in play here is how it's paid for.''
Mr. Obama said last week that he would reject any effort to tie the oil pipeline to the payroll tax cut. In its veto threat on Tuesday, the White House complained that House Republicans were protecting tax breaks for the wealthy and injecting ''ideological issues into what should be a simple debate about cutting taxes for the middle class.''
The House debate highlighted stark differences on jobless benefits. Republicans would reduce the maximum duration of benefits to 59 weeks, from the current 99. Representative Earl Blumenauer, Democrat of Oregon, said it was cruel to reduce the limit because, in many parts of the country, ''the jobs aren't there.''
But Representative Dave Camp, Republican of Michigan and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said 59 weeks reflected ''the more normal level typically available following recessions.''
Mr. Camp hailed several other restrictions and requirements.
Under the bill, states could require drug testing of people who applied for jobless benefits. And most people receiving benefits would have to search for work and to pursue education credentials if they did not have high school diplomas.
The House Republican bill lists the oil pipeline and the rollback of environmental rules as ''job creation incentives.''
But Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the Republicans were giving gifts to ''their planet-polluting patrons, Big Oil and Big Coal,'' and he asserted: ''G.O.P. used to stand for Grand Old Party. Now it stands for Gang of Polluters. Now it stands for Gas and Oil Party.''
Some labor unions and some Democratic lawmakers support the pipeline project.
''I support the pipeline, but I also respect the president's views that he does not want to be pushed into a decision,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana. ''So I haven't made a final decision.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The passing of the tax cut extension was a victory for the House speaker, John A. Boehner, left, at the Capitol before the vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VETO (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%); MEDICARE (56%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); AIR POLLUTION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); DAVID DREIER (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JAMES P MCGOVERN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



609 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Art World Star Doesn't Change His Spots

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
LONDON -- Just as the financial markets were heading for disaster in 2008, the British artist Damien Hirst snubbed his dealers and persuaded Sotheby's here to sell 223 primarily new artworks. There were dead animals -- sharks, zebras, piglets and even a calf -- floating in giant glass tanks of formaldehyde; cabinets filled with diamonds; and cigarette butts. And paintings galore: spin paintings, spot paintings, paintings with butterflies pinned under glass.
More than 21,000 people flocked to Sotheby's to see the preview exhibition. The two-day sale in September, conducted against the backdrop of the unfolding world financial crisis, brought in a total of $200.7 million.
Right before that auction Mr. Hirst proclaimed the end of those abstract canvases of candy-color dots. He was also going to stop making spin and butterfly paintings, as well as installations with dead animals. To some it was a clever now-or-never sales pitch, but Mr. Hirst insists that wasn't the case. 
''I'd moved on,'' he explained on a recent afternoon sitting in an upstairs office at Gagosian's Brittania Street gallery. ''At the time of the auction I'd gotten to the point where I'd definitely done enough.''
But now, a typical Hirstian change of heart. He started producing spot paintings again, and -- as happens every few years -- this 46-year-old artist is staging yet another spectacle. This time he has persuaded the gallery owner Larry Gagosian to let him take over all 11 of his galleries -- the two locations in London; three in New York; one each in Paris, Rome, Hong Kong, Athens, Geneva and Beverly Hills, Calif. -- to hold a retrospective of his spot paintings.
The exhibition, which runs from Jan. 12 through Feb. 18, can't help conjuring up a cliche or two: seeing spots, connect-the-spots, to cite the most obvious. And like so many things Mr. Hirst has done, the spot show will no doubt be accompanied by a hailstorm of criticism. Even the idea is anathema to some. Richard Dorment, the art critic for The Daily Telegraph in London, called the spot paintings themselves ''fantastically boring,'' and when asked about the premise of the Gagosian shows, he replied: ''The accumulation of scores of them in one place like the Tate's Turbine Hall could make a visual impact, but I can't see the point of filling all of Gagosian's galleries around the world. What purpose will it serve?''
Mr. Hirst has heard all the complaints before. ''They are the last of my work to catch on,'' he said of the spot paintings. ''Someone once came up to me and said, 'Why do you make those stupid spots, they're dumb, an insult to painting.' '' But for Mr. Hirst and Mr. Gagosian, this is serious business.
''It's like one show in multiple locations,'' Mr. Gagosian said in a telephone interview. ''These paintings have entered popular culture. You see them in advertisements, on clothes, on cars. They've become part of our visual vocabulary.'' (In 2003 Mr. Hirst even painted a 220-seat boat that crossed the Thames from Tate Britain to Tate Modern and was decorated with spots in 35 colors.)
The Gagosian exhibition will include about 200 works, spanning 20 years, from collections in 20 countries. Loans are coming from museums and collectors around the world. Less than one-third of the show will be for sale.
While officials at the gallery say it is too early to discuss prices, comparable works at auction have fetched anywhere from about $100,000 to upwards of $1.8 million, depending on the date, size, design and condition. The show will be followed by a full retrospective at Tate Modern, to open on April 4.
On a recent afternoon Mr. Hirst was holed up in an office at the Britannia Street gallery in the Kings Cross section of London, where white cardboard models of all 11 Gagosian galleries were laid out on tables, with miniature reproductions of each canvas hanging on the models' walls.
''This show was something I've always wanted to do,'' said Mr. Hirst, who was wearing his usual uniform of blue jeans and a hoodie. ''I am hoping that each gallery will have its own personality. Madison Avenue has more of an old-master feel, so we're putting the earliest ones there.''
Mr. Hirst said he got the idea for the show one day on a visit to New York, when he was staring at a wall at the entrance to the Madison Avenue gallery, where it listed the exhibitions on view at all of Gagosian's locations. ''I suddenly thought, 'Oh My God, it could be like a museum retrospective if I did it in all nine galleries worldwide.' '' (Since then Mr. Gagosian has opened two more.)
The idea for the spot paintings, Mr. Hirst said, most likely came subconsciously from his father, who was a car salesman in Leeds, in northern England, and painted the door of their house with blue spots.
''He got a bowl and cut out a circle, masked it out and then sprayed the spots,'' Mr. Hirst said. ''I used to tell people I lived at the house that had the white door with blue spots.''
Mr. Hirst started the spot series in 1986. ''At the time I was doing sort of collages that were a bit like Nicholas de Stael or Hans Hoffmann paintings and I was resolving a lot of formal problems with color,'' he said. ''What made me keep doing them is they always looked great. The idea was that it was an endless series. It's a conceptual idea rather than reality.''
The earliest spot paintings were done directly on the wall, he added, ''so they looked like a giant machine had painted them.''
''I was sort of trying to deny that there was an artist, so there was this kind of infinitely happy paintings,'' Mr. Hirst said. But over the years his idea has gone through many transformations. He went through a phase where he wanted to make sure the viewer would know the paintings were man-made.
''I used to leave holes in the middle of the circles, so they weren't perfect,'' he said. ''I'd give some only one coat, so you could see the white through the canvas, and on some there'd be marks and drips and scratches, so they were a bit wonky. I would have wars with my assistants who'd want to make them too perfect, but gradually over the years I changed my mind about that. Now I like the way they look when they're almost perfect.''
Of the hundreds of spot canvases, Mr. Hirst painted only five himself. ''When I worked out how to do it, I sold one painting for, like, 50 quid and then used the money to employ other people to paint them,'' he said, explaining that he tells his staff he wants the colors to be random. One time an assistant painted five yellow spots in a row. ''I told him those aren't random,'' Mr. Hirst recalled. ''And we had a big fight. Now I realize he was right, and I was wrong.''
Another assistant could be credited with sending the artist back to spots. ''He showed me that he could paint really small things,'' Mr. Hirst said, ''and I said, 'Wow!' It was like a whole new beginning.'' And the spots began again, this time getting smaller and smaller.
At the moment there is one painting that will not be ready in time for the exhibition. Mr. Hirst has enlisted two assistants to create a canvas of two million tiny spots, each about one millimeter in diameter. He estimates that it will take two people nine years to make.
''It's not the kind of thing you can churn out,'' he said. ''One person can only paint for 15 minutes at a time before your eyes go a bit weird.''
To some the idea of looking at galleries filled with nothing but canvases with spots on them sounds mind-numbingly monotonous. But not, as you would assume, to the artist.
''They're quite hard things to look at,'' he said. ''Superficially they're happy paintings, but then there is this underlying uneasiness. You lose your boundaries because they are hard to focus on. Do you focus on the grid or the individual spots or the painting as a whole? Once you start really looking, you get lost.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Damien Hirst with one of his spot paintings. He is reviving this earlier genre with a bang that includes 11 shows to fill all the branches of his dealer, Gagosian Gallery, worldwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 ''Controlled Substance Key Painting,'' by the British artist Damien Hirst, dates from 1994, an earlier ''spot painting'' period. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIEN HIRST AND SCIENCE LTD./DACS AND GAGOSIAN GALLERY)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ALDEHYDES (57%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED KINGDOM (89%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



610 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3662 words

HEADLINE: Beirut Bank Seen as a Hub Of Hezbollah's Financing

BYLINE: By JO BECKER

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- Last February, the Obama administration accused one of Lebanon's famously secretive banks of laundering money for an international cocaine ring with ties to the Shiite militant group Hezbollah.
Now, in the wake of the bank's exposure and arranged sale, its ledgers have been opened to reveal deeper secrets: a glimpse at the clandestine methods that Hezbollah -- a terrorist organization in American eyes that has evolved into Lebanon's pre-eminent military and political power -- uses to finance its operations. The books offer evidence of an intricate global money-laundering apparatus that, with the bank as its hub, appeared to let Hezbollah move huge sums of money into the legitimate financial system, despite sanctions aimed at cutting off its economic lifeblood.
At the same time, the investigation that led the United States to the bank, the Lebanese Canadian Bank, provides new insights into the murky sources of Hezbollah's money. While law enforcement agencies around the world have long believed that Hezbollah is a passive beneficiary of contributions from loyalists abroad involved in drug trafficking and a grab bag of other criminal enterprises, intelligence from several countries points to the direct involvement of high-level Hezbollah officials in the South American cocaine trade. 
One agent involved in the investigation compared Hezbollah to the Mafia, saying, ''They operate like the Gambinos on steroids.''
On Tuesday, federal prosecutors in Virginia announced the indictment of the man at the center of the Lebanese Canadian Bank case, charging that he had trafficked drugs and laundered money not only for Colombian cartels, but also for the murderous Mexican gang Los Zetas.
The revelations about Hezbollah and the Lebanese Canadian Bank reflect the changing political and military dynamics of Lebanon and the Middle East. American intelligence analysts believe that for years Hezbollah received as much as $200 million annually from its primary patron, Iran, along with additional aid from Syria. But that support has diminished, the analysts say, as Iran's economy buckles under international sanctions over its nuclear program and Syria's government battles rising popular unrest.
Yet, if anything, Hezbollah's financial needs have grown alongside its increasing legitimacy here, as it seeks to rebuild after its 2006 war with Israel and expand its portfolio of political and social service activities. The result, analysts believe, has been a deeper reliance on criminal enterprises -- especially the South American cocaine trade -- and on a mechanism to move its ill-gotten cash around the world.
''The ability of terror groups like Hezbollah to tap into the worldwide criminal funding streams is the new post-9/11 challenge,'' said Derek Maltz, the Drug Enforcement Administration official who oversaw the agency's investigation into the Lebanese Canadian Bank.
In that inquiry, American Treasury officials said senior bank managers had assisted a handful of account holders in running a scheme to wash drug money by mixing it with the proceeds of used cars bought in the United States and sold in Africa. A cut of the profits, officials said, went to Hezbollah, a link the organization disputes.
The officials have refused to disclose their evidence for that allegation. But the outlines of a broader laundering network, and the degree to which Hezbollah's business had come to suffuse the bank's operations, emerged in recent months as the bank's untainted assets were being sold, with American blessings, to a Beirut-based partner of the French banking giant Societe Generale.
Of course, a money-laundering operation does not just come out and identify itself. But auditors brought in to scrub the books discovered nearly 200 accounts that were suspicious for their links to Hezbollah and their classic signs of money laundering.
In all, hundreds of millions of dollars a year sloshed through the accounts, held mainly by Shiite Muslim businessmen in the drug-smuggling nations of West Africa, many of them known Hezbollah supporters, trading in everything from rough-cut diamonds to cosmetics and frozen chicken, according to people with knowledge of the matter in the United States and Europe. The companies appeared to be serving as fronts for Hezbollah to move all sorts of dubious funds, on its own behalf or for others.
The system allowed Hezbollah to hide not only the sources of its wealth, but also its involvement in a range of business enterprises. One case involved perhaps the richest land deal in Lebanon's history, the $240 million purchase late last year of more than 740 pristine acres overlooking the Mediterranean in the religiously diverse Chouf region.
The seller was a jet-set Christian jeweler, Robert Mouawad, whose clientele runs from Saudi royalty to Hollywood royalty. The buyer, at least on paper, was a Shiite diamond dealer, Nazem Said Ahmad.
In fact, according to people knowledgeable about Beirut real estate, the development corporation's major investor was a relative of a former Hezbollah commander, Ali Tajeddine. The investor, in turn, received money that flowed through the bank from companies the United States has since designated as Hezbollah fronts, and from dealers implicated in the trade in so-called conflict diamonds and minerals, the Americans and Europeans with knowledge of the matter said. The Lebanese Canadian Bank provided a crucial loan.
And the deal fit a pattern, highly controversial in this religiously combustible land, in which entities tied to Hezbollah have been buying up militarily strategic pieces of property in largely Christian areas, helping the movement quietly fortify its geopolitical hegemony.
In a recent interview at his home in Taybeh, just north of the border with Israel -- or as the signs here say, ''Palestine'' -- Hezbollah's chief political strategist and a member of Parliament, Ali Fayyad, denied that his organization was behind the Chouf purchase or other, similar land deals. He dismissed the American drug-trafficking allegations as politically motivated ''propaganda,'' adding, ''We have no relationship to the Lebanese Canadian Bank.'' The United States, he said, was simply persecuting innocent Shiite businessmen as a way ''to punish us because we won our battle with Israel.''
For the United States, taking down the bank was part of a long-running strategy of deploying financial weapons to fight terrorism. This account of the serpentine, six-year inquiry and what has since been revealed is based on interviews with government, law enforcement and banking officials across three continents, as well as intelligence reports and police and corporate records.
As the case traveled up the administration's chain of command beginning in the fall of 2010, some officials proposed leaving the Hezbollah link unsaid. They argued that simply blacklisting the bank would disrupt the network while insulating the United States from suspicions of playing politics, especially amid American alarm about ebbing influence in the Middle East. But the prevailing view was that the case offered what one official called ''a great opportunity to dirty up Hezbollah'' by pointing out the hypocrisy of the ''Party of God'' profiting from criminal activity.
Certainly the United States had ample cause to want to dirty up Hezbollah, Iran's armed proxy and a persistent irritant to American interests in a chronically troubled region. (Just last week, in fact, Hezbollah's long-running feud with the Central Intelligence Agency heated up when the organization broadcast what it said were the names of 10 American spies who had worked in recent years at the embassy in Beirut. )
The time was ripe, too, for taking on Hezbollah -- a moment that crystallized its ascent but also its vulnerability. Just weeks before, Hezbollah's political wing had played Lebanese kingmaker, engineering the fall of Prime Minister Saad Hariri, an American ally, and installing its own choice in his stead. At the same time, though, a United Nations tribunal was preparing to indict Hezbollah members in a spectacular bombing that killed Mr. Hariri's father, former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, in 2005.
John O. Brennan, the president's counterterrorism adviser, recalled the debate in a recent interview. ''I thought that if Hezbollah was involved in the drug trade,'' he said, ''let's make sure that gets out.''
A State Within a State
Founded three decades ago as a guerrilla force aimed at the Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon, Hezbollah has never before had such a prominent place in the country's official politics. Yet much of its power, and its ability to operate with some impunity, derives from elsewhere: from its status as a state within the Lebanese state.
Its militia is considerably stronger than the national army. Its social service agencies perform many of the functions of government, and it controls the international airport and the smuggling routes along the Syrian border, as well as the budgets of the government agencies charged with policing them.
In an interview, the chief of Lebanese customs' drug and money-laundering unit, Lt. Col. Joseph N. Skaf, described a Sisyphean task: Passengers are allowed to bring in unlimited amounts of cash without declaring it. He has only 12 officers to search for drugs, and scanners at the airport and seaport do not work. ''My hands are tied,'' he said.
That this sliver of a country would be a crossroads for all manner of trade owes much to the flourishing of a worldwide diaspora; more Lebanese live abroad than at home. Through criminal elements in these emigre communities, Hezbollah has gained a deepening foothold in the cocaine business, according to an assessment by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime described in a leaked 2009 State Department cable.
From a trafficking standpoint, the emigres were in the right places at the right time. As demand increased in Europe and the Middle East, the cartels began plying new routes -- from Colombia, Venezuela and the lawless frontier where Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina meet, to West African countries like Benin and Gambia. From there, drugs moved north through Portugal or Spain, or east via Syria and Lebanon.
According to Lebanon's drug enforcement chief, Col. Adel Mashmoushi, one path into the country was aboard a weekly Iranian-operated flight from Venezuela to Damascus and then over the border. Several American officials confirmed that, emphasizing that such an operation would be impossible without Hezbollah's involvement.
In South America and in Europe, prosecutors began noticing Lebanese Shiite middlemen working for the cartels. But the strongest evidence of an expanding Hezbollah role in the drug trade, that it was not just the passive recipient of tainted money, comes from the two investigations that ultimately led to the Lebanese Canadian Bank.
The trail began with a man known as Taliban, overheard on Colombian wiretaps of a Medellin cartel, La Oficina de Envigado. Actually, he was a Lebanese transplant, Chekri Mahmoud Harb, and in June 2007, he met in Bogota with an undercover agent for the Drug Enforcement Administration and sketched out his route.
Cocaine was shipped by sea to Port Aqaba, Jordan, then smuggled into Syria. After Mr. Harb bragged that he could deliver 950 kilos into Lebanon within hours, the undercover agent casually remarked that he must have Hezbollah connections. Mr. Harb smiled and nodded, the agent reported.
(Jordanian officials, after extensive surveillance, later told the D.E.A. that the Syrian leg of the shipment was coordinated by a Syrian intelligence officer assigned as a liaison to Hezbollah. From there, multiple sources reported, Hezbollah operatives charged a tax to guarantee shipments into Lebanon.)
Soon the cartel was giving the agent money to launder: $20 million in all. But before Mr. Harb could reveal the entire scheme and identify his Hezbollah contacts, the operation broke down: The C.I.A., initially skeptical of a Hezbollah link, now wanted in on the case. On the eve of a planned meeting in Jordan, it forced the undercover agent to postpone. His quarry spooked. In the end, Mr. Harb was convicted on federal drug trafficking and money-laundering charges, but the window into the organization's heart had slammed shut.
It was ''like having a girl you love break up with you,'' one agent said later, adding, ''We lost everything.''
A New Target
Actually they had not. Before long, a new target emerged.
A call had come in to a wiretapped phone tied to Mr. Harb and the cartel. The caller had arranged for cocaine proceeds to be picked up at a Paris hotel and laundered back to Colombia. The meeting turned out to be a sting.
''He says, 'I just lost a million euros in France,' '' recalled one of the agents listening in. ''The way he talked -- no one loses a million euros and is so nonchalant about it. Usually, there are bodies in the street.''
Agents had known that there was a major money launderer whose phone sat in Lebanon. Now they had a name: Ayman Joumaa, formerly of Medellin, now owner of the Caesars Park Hotel in Beirut. He was a Sunni Muslim, but cellphones seized at the Paris hotel linked him to Shiites in Hezbollah strongholds in southern Lebanon, according to Interpol records.
He was also known to Israeli intelligence. Israeli intercepts showed him in contact with a member of Hezbollah's ''1,800 Unit,'' alleged to coordinate attacks inside Israel. Mr. Joumaa's contact, in turn, worked for a senior operative who the Israelis believed handled Hezbollah's drug operations.
His name was Abu Abdallah, and he had popped up in the Harb wiretaps, too: At one point, as Mr. Harb was complaining about ''the sons of whores I owe money to,'' a relative from his hometown warned that the ''people of Abu Abdallah, the people we do not dare have problems or fight with,'' were looking for him, wanting money.
Eventually an American team dispatched to look into Mr. Joumaa's activities uncovered the used-car operation. Cars bought in United States were sold in Africa, with cash proceeds flown into Beirut and deposited into three money-exchange houses, one owned by Mr. Joumaa's family and another down the street from his hotel. The exchanges then deposited the money, the ostensible proceeds of a booming auto trade, into the Lebanese Canadian Bank, so named because it was once a subsidiary of the Royal Bank of Canada Middle East.
But the numbers did not add up. The car lots in the United States, many owned by Lebanese emigres and one linked to a separate Hezbollah weapons-smuggling scheme, were not moving nearly enough merchandise to account for all that cash, American officials said. What was really going on, they concluded, was that European drug proceeds were being intermingled with the car-sale cash to make it appear legitimate.
Hezbollah received its cut either from the exchange houses, or via the bank itself, according to the D.E.A. And the Treasury Department concluded that Iran also used the bank to avoid sanctions, with Hezbollah's envoy to Tehran serving as go-between.
In Washington, after a long debate over when to act and what to make public, the administration decided to invoke a rarely used provision of the Patriot Act. Since the bank had been found to be of ''primary money-laundering concern,'' the Treasury Department could turn it into an international pariah by forbidding American financial institutions to deal with it. President Obama was briefed, and on Feb. 10, Treasury officials pulled the trigger.
As for Mr. Joumaa, the indictment announced Tuesday goes beyond the Europe-based operation outlined in the Lebanese Canadian Bank case. It charges him with coordinating shipments of Colombian cocaine to Los Zetas in Mexico for sale in the United States, and laundering the proceeds.
Whether he will ever face trial is an open question. The United States has no extradition treaty with Lebanon, and Mr. Joumaa's whereabouts are unknown. He did not respond to several messages left at his hotel by The New York Times. Around Beirut, rumors abound.
Growing Skepticism
The Americans had identified only a handful of drug-tainted accounts at the Lebanese Canadian Bank. The search for further trouble began over the summer, after the Societe Generale de Banque au Liban, or S.G.B.L., agreed to buy the bank's assets.
As part of its own agreement with Treasury officials, Lebanon's Central Bank set up a process to scrub the books. But compliance officers at S.G.B.L.'s French partner, Societe Generale, were skeptical of the Central Bank's choice of investigators. One of them, the local affiliate of the international auditing firm Deloitte, had presumably missed the drug-related accounts the first time around, when it served as the Lebanese Canadian Bank's outside auditor.
And, according to people knowledgeable about Lebanese banking, the central bank's on-the-ground representative had been recommended to that post by Hezbollah.
As an extra step, to reassure wary international banks, the chairman of S.G.B.L., Antoun Sehnaoui, commissioned a parallel audit, with the help of Societe Generale's chief money-laundering compliance officer. And to make sure that his bank did not run afoul of Treasury officials by inadvertently taking on dirty assets, he also hired a consultant intimately familiar with the Patriot Act provision used to take the bank down: John Ashcroft, the former attorney general whose Justice Department wrote the law.
Identifying suspicious accounts is not a subjective business. Banks rely on internationally recognized standards and software that contains certain triggers.
For the assets of the Lebanese Canadian Bank, the process worked this way, according to the Americans and Europeans knowledgeable about the case:
Initially, the auditors looked only at records for the past year. As they began combing through thousands of accounts, they looked for customers with known links to Hezbollah. They also looked for telltale patterns: repeated deposits of vast amounts of cash, huge wire transfers broken into smaller transactions and transfers between companies in such wildly incongruous lines of business that they made sense only as fronts to camouflage the true origin of the funds.
Each type of red flag was assigned a point value. An account with 1 or 2 points on a scale to 10 was likely to survive. One with 8 or 9 cried out for further scrutiny. Ultimately, the auditors were left with nearly 200 accounts that appeared to add up to a giant money-laundering operation, with Hezbollah smack in the middle, according to American officials. Complex webs of transactions featured the same companies over and over again, most of them owned by Shiite businessmen, many known Hezbollah supporters. Some have since been identified as Hezbollah fronts.
At the center of many of these webs were companies trading in diamonds, which experts say are fast replacing more traditional money-laundering vehicles because they are easy to transport and are generally traded for cash. Large transactions leave no paper trail, and values can be altered through bogus transactions. A number of these dealers had been implicated in the buying of ''conflict diamonds'' and other minerals used to finance civil wars and human-rights abuses in Africa.
In some cases, money moved in amounts -- tens of millions of dollars at a clip -- that made no sense, given the business models and potential sales of the companies involved.
''It's like these guys no one had ever heard of became the most successful multimillionaires overnight,'' said one person with knowledge of the investigation. ''It's Hezbollah's money.''
Mr. Sehnaoui closed the deal in September. He declined to discuss details, but said: ''We bought certain assets of the Lebanese Canadian Bank, and only the clean ones. We did not take any even slightly questionable clients.''
Lawyers for Mr. Ashcroft's firm said all the problematic accounts had been excised, even though it meant losing nearly $30 million a year in interest and fees. ''As current and potential problems have been uncovered, he has not hesitated to act,'' Mr. Ashcroft said of his client.
From the Treasury Department's perspective, the case is a victory, albeit an incremental one, in the battle against terrorism financing. Lebanon's Central Bank showed that it was willing to shut down the Lebanese Canadian Bank and sell it to a ''responsible owner,'' said Daniel L. Glaser, assistant Treasury secretary for terrorism financing. An important avenue to Hezbollah has been blocked.
Still, Treasury officials have no illusions that their work here is done. From the beginning, the blacklisting was also intended as a wider warning to a banking industry that, with secrecy to rival the Swiss, forms the backbone of Lebanon's economy: henceforth, other bankers did business with Hezbollah at their peril.
''What the Central Bank hasn't fully demonstrated, and the jury is still out, is whether they will use this as a launching pad to ensure that these illicit actors aren't migrating elsewhere,'' Mr. Glaser said.
The signs are not terribly encouraging. The Central Bank governor, Riad Salameh, cut short an interview when asked about the aftermath of the American action, calling it an ''old story.'' As for those nearly 200 suspect accounts, Mr. Salameh would only say that he does not involve himself in such commercial questions.
Privately, he has played down the findings to the Treasury Department, attributing much of the suspicious activity to peculiarities in the way business is done in Africa. Those accounts he did deem problematic, he told the Americans, have been referred to Lebanon's general prosecutor. But the prosecutor refused to comment, and his deputy, who handles money-laundering inquiries, said last week that he had received nothing.
In fact, as Treasury officials acknowledge, on Mr. Salameh's watch, most of the accounts were simply transferred to several other Lebanese banks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Customs inspectors in Beirut have to contend with nonworking scanners. One manually inspected bags of rice unloaded off a ship from Uruguay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HWAIDA SAAD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ali Fayyad, a Hezbollah political strategist and Lebanese Parliament member, rejected drug allegations.
A $240 million purchase of land on the Mediterranean coast in the Chouf region of Lebanon fit a pattern in which entities tied to Hezbollah have been buying up militarily strategic pieces of property in largely Christian areas.
In Beirut, a sign remained for the Lebanese Canadian Bank, even after it was shut down and its ledgers opened to investigate money laundering. (A16)
Antoun Sehnaoui, right, chairman of The Societe Generale de Banque au Liban, which agreed to buy assets of the Lebanese Canadian Bank. He said of the transaction, ''We did not take any even slightly questionable clients.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED OU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Chekri Mahmoud Harb was convicted on federal drug trafficking and money-laundering charges.
 Ayman Joumaa, who United States federal prosecutors say trafficked drugs and laundered money. (A17) GRAPHICS: The Money Laundering Trail: According to American officials, the Lebanese Canadian Bank was the hub of an international drug money laundering operation with ties to Hezbollah. Used car and other consumer goods sales revenues had been used to mask the proceeds of illegal drug trade. (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (94%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); COCAINE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); CARTELS (70%); POLITICS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (95%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) LEBANON (99%); CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); URUGUAY (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



611 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; DE GUSTIBUS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: I'll Try My Luck

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
THE baking life is one of many sorrows, and I have seen or tasted them all.
My grandmother's fallen cream puffs, courtesy of the stomping feet of small children across a hardwood floor. Salt mistaken for sugar; dough that never rises; the breakfast-meeting muffins that were raw in the middle; and the layer cake that slid gently from the pan straight to the floor, where it promptly cracked in half, which mattered, since I would have shamelessly pulled it up and frosted it for dinner guests arriving in 20 minutes.
But among all debacles, nothing is quite as depressing as the modern bake sale, where amid the veritable celebration of poundcakes and misshapen cookies are the inevitable Ziploc bags filled with Oreos or perfectly formed bakery-bought treats.
In the countless sales I have attended over the years, I have been amazed by the number of packaged cookies, high-end cupcakes and impeccably round marzipan-covered confections that people plop down on the table, with no compunction, to be resold. 
While certainly not a felony (though there have to be less egregious crimes that are felonies, and I will get back to you on that), selling store-bought cookies seems weirdly like cheating and more than a little tacky: a re-gifting that does not even try to hide the price tag.
I do not have anything against people who do not bake. The culinary arts, for those with no interest in them, are nothing more than housework. While some of us hammer out life's frustrations with a whisk to batter, or sharp knife to shallots, others prefer to take a toothbrush to the kitchen sink. Or they ride a bike or something. I couldn't say.
But no one says you have to be Ina Garten here, kids. To wit: I took a cookie-decorating class last weekend, failed at advanced icing and quickly became the one student in the class who kept demanding more alcohol. So my mittens looked like stealth bombers! They tasted great!
No question, some people cannot afford the equipment needed to bake, even if they wish to, though flour and sugar are cheaper than Chips Ahoy. And in my observation in the four American cities where I have lived, income does seem to be the underpinning of the problem.
Indeed, I have witnessed the reverse: the more upscale the community for the bake sale, the fancier the store-bought cookies. (Sprinkles Cupcakes may be the single biggest supplier of bake-sale goods in West Los Angeles.) Lower-income parents, especially first-generation immigrants, often turn up at school parties with the best-tasting homemade treats.
''I have gotten kind of aggressive about it,'' said Abby Arnold, a grant writer in Santa Monica, Calif., who once looked over in horror to see store-bought Easter-themed cookies being sold at a PTA bake sale a week after the holiday. Ms. Arnold said she has taken to calling people out on the practice. Well, actually, she admitted, she mostly just gossips about them with their friends.
Some pull out the ''lack of time'' card when it comes to baking (though in truth, Rice Krispie treats take less time to make than going to Safeway for cookies) and thus we have the tired meme sparked a decade ago by ''I Don't Know How She Does It,'' with the moms (yep, always moms) doctoring store-bought goods to look homemade.
Don't do that. Just take napkins. Look at it this way: You would not resell socks you bought at Macy's on the art-sale crafts table. Respect the cookie!
The practice has also crept into potlucks, where Whole Foods containers of chicken and endless boxes of pizza have replaced the disposable flats of ziti and divine chicken tetrazzinis that have marked holiday parties and hockey award ceremonies for years.
It strikes me that all this bake sale corner cutting and potluck shrugging-off are odd anomalies in our ingredient-obsessed, locally sourced lima bean eating, organic milk swilling culture. We objectify food with our smartphones at restaurants, sticking photos with sauces slithering off the plate onto our blogs, and with fancy journals devoted to a single ingredient on our nightstands.
We stick up our noses at out-of-season blackberries, and compete over the brands of our stoves and dishwashers. We moralize about the family dinner, outdo one another by killing and plucking our own turkeys and plan vacations around a dinner reservation.
Then, when it comes to sharing the most basic of our bounty, we punt.
''The underlying social issues unleashed by bake sale and potluck donations are the culinary snakes writhing beneath Medusa's toque,'' Lynne Olver, the editor of Foodtimeline.org, the indispensable if quirky outpost of food history, wrote in an e-mail. ''In sum, traditional American society associates 'homemade' with love and caring. Which mean contributors choosing to buy goods are regarded as cheap and dismissive.''
There is something unfair about such rendered judgment, Ms. Olver conceded. And I confess I question my own sanity at times, as when I drove to an event at my synagogue the other night, steadying a plate of frosted brownies in the passenger seat, which resulted in a chocolate thumb at every stoplight. (That same bounty included Munchkins, requested by the honoree, from a Dunkin' Donuts. Those boxes caused a knot in my stomach the entire drive.)
I am not alone in my insanity.
''For me, it comes down to the essence of what baking is,'' said Waverly Gage, a mother of three in Houston whose favorite contribution to bake sales is Bundt cakes, and who bristles, too, at the store-bought fare. ''Whether it is to raise money for your school or your church or whatever group, you've been asked to bake something and put something of yourself into it, and when someone goes and buys store-bought cookies, it misses the entire point,'' said Ms. Gage, who blogs at the Web site peaceandloveinthekitchen.com. ''Baking is supposed to be an expression of you.''
Store-bought potluck offerings are also a deviation from deeply rooted traditions, sparked centuries ago, of food sharing, which became central to American social customs in the middle of the last century.
Foodtimeline.org dates the potluck as far back as the 16th century, when people would stop by the host's home, often at the spur of the moment, and try their ''luck'' at whatever was being offered. The notion was captured in a 1592 missive from an English citation that reads: ''That that pure sanguine complexion of yours may never be famisht with pot luck.''
The concept caught on in early America, and, according to the site, in the West ''pot luck'' meant food brought by a cowboy guest.
Bake sales, which also rose in the mid-20th century, leveled the ethnic playing field, letting people branch out into one another's kitchens when lines were still firmly drawn around eating ''one's own'' food, baked by family or members of the same ethnic group, said Joan Jacobs Brumberg, a professor emerita of history, human development and gender studies at Cornell.
''A brownie baked by an Italian woman versus one baked by a Protestant woman was not that different,'' she said. ''And by the 1950s a lot of mothers had received a home economics education which had homogenized food in a way that was very concentrated on nutrient value of food more than aesthetics or taste.''
Some schools and other institutions have undermined these efforts in recent years by insisting that baked goods for sale come from the store, so that ingredients can be clearly known, an accommodation to allergies and other health concerns.
But there is still ample room for sharing. So the next time your school has a Halloween bake sale, consider pulling out a few pumpkin-shaped cutters. You may be punished for your good efforts, as I was when my chocolate ginger snaps were passed over by a 5-year-old for the box of cookies from Ralph's, the Food Emporium of the West Coast. But you will have the pride of effort, and tradition.
Oh, and here's the felony I find to be not so egregious as taking store-bought: bear wrestling in Alabama.
But I digress.
Recipe: Recipe: Field Day Poundcake
Adapted from Denise Moseley on peaceandloveinthekitchen.com
Time: 1 hour and 45 minutes
453 grams (2 cups) unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus more to grease the pans
600 grams (3 cups) granulated sugar
6 large eggs, at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon salt
453 grams (3 cups) cake flour
1/4 cup heavy cream.
1. Heat the oven to 325 degrees. Butter one 12-cup Bundt pan or two 8 1/2-inch-by-4 1/2-inch loaf pans, and set aside.
2. Using an electric mixer or by hand, cream together the remaining butter and sugar. Add the eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in the vanilla and salt.
3. Gently stir in the flour by hand, adding it very gradually; this will help to keep the cake tender. Add the cream and stir just until thoroughly combined.
4. Pour the batter into the pan or pans and smooth the top. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 1 hour and 15 minutes. Cool in the pan for 10 minutes, then turn the cake out onto a rack to cool completely.
Yield: 1 large Bundt cake or 2 loaf cakes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BACK IN THE DAY: At this church supper in Georgia in 1951, the tables were laden with the donations of many. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM HOLLYMAN/PHOTO RESEARCHERS/GETTY IMAGES)(D2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BAKERIES (78%); CONFECTIONERY (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); FELONIES (72%); EASTER SEASON (69%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



612 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: When Business Is Regulated, and Isn't

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Wonky Liberal'' (column, Dec. 6):
David Brooks does an excellent job of debunking the big business hysteria over regulations. But the big business story is even more upside down than he reports. 
First, as Mr. Brooks notes, regulation did not cause the jobs crisis. But it's also true that it was precisely deregulation and regulatory failure -- the failure of financial regulators to control Wall Street and big banks' reckless speculation and other activities -- that led to the financial collapse that plunged the nation and the world into recession.
Second, while Mr. Brooks is right to note the relative modest cost of regulations, he doesn't note the benefit of those regulations. The Obama administration estimates that major regulations issued from 2000 to 2010 will have monetized benefits at least twice as large as costs, and up to 15 times greater.
The George W. Bush administration reached very similar conclusions for rules issued between 1997 and 2007.
ROBERT WEISSMAN KATHERINE McFATE Washington, Dec. 6, 2011
The writers are co-chairmen of the Coalition for Sensible Safeguards and the presidents of Public Citizen and OMB Watch, respectively.
To the Editor:
David Brooks is right that weakening regulations would not produce an economic rebound. But by not mentioning the benefits of environmental and health and safety regulations, he misses a more important point.
Agencies issue regulations under laws written by Congress to protect people from harm. When the White House trumps agency expertise with raw political decisions and weakens rules, bad consequences ensue.
Whatever the politics of President Obama's decision on ozone regulation, thousands of Americans will pay with their lives, according to the best available research. And kids and parents will miss hundreds of thousands of school and work days because of illness.
Mr. Brooks portrays the White House's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs as a bureau of apolitical technocrats, but its history -- under this administration and previous ones -- shows that it nearly always weakens regulations at the behest of industry lobbyists.
RENA STEINZOR Baltimore, Dec. 6, 2011
The writer is president of the Center for Progressive Reform and a professor at the University of Maryland Carey School of Law.
To the Editor:
David Brooks has it backward when he suggests that ''many of the major agency jobs are held by people who come out of the activist community who are not sensitive to the costs they are imposing on the economy.'' It is business interests that are not sensitive to the social and environmental costs they impose on the rest of us in society.
When farmers let pesticides run off into a river or factories spew greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, society as a whole bears the costs of these free environmental gifts to business.
If taxes are the price we pay for living in a civilized society, environmental regulations are what ensure that society is a healthy one.
HAYDEN KANTOR Ithaca, N.Y., Dec. 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); POLITICS (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%); LOBBYING (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (63%); PESTICIDES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC CITIZEN (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



613 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Stony Brook University To Get $150 Million Gift

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
James H. Simons usually shuns publicity, though some attention is inescapable for a hedge fund billionaire and major philanthropist. But on occasion, he allows one cause to draw him into public view: Stony Brook University, where he was a mathematics professor long ago.
He joined two governors, David A. Paterson and Andrew M. Cuomo, in pressing the Legislature to shore up the finances of the State University of New York, the parent system of Stony Brook, in part by raising tuition. He made it clear that he could be very generous if the state acted, and this year lawmakers made the kinds of changes he sought. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Simons, 73, and his wife, Marilyn, will announce the biggest gift by far in SUNY's history, $150 million to Stony Brook. It is the sixth largest donation ever made to an American public university, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education, and is twice as large as the previous record for a gift to a public university in New York -- the $60 million that the Simonses' foundation gave to Stony Brook in 2008.
Most of the money will go to research in medical sciences, including the construction of a life sciences building and the creation of a neurosciences institute and a center for biological imaging, as well as to the study of cancer and infectious diseases.
Other portions of the gift will help pay for 35 new endowed professorships, and will create 40 fellowships for graduate students.
Dr. Samuel L. Stanley, president of Stony Brook, said that the donation, to be given over seven years, was more than triple the amount the university typically raised from all donors in a year. The university is 54 years old, he said, but ''this is our rebirth day.''
Like most of the nation's public universities, SUNY has faced declining state support, but unlike most of them, SUNY cannot compensate by raising tuition. In New York, the Legislature sets tuition at state universities, and for years it has resisted the rapid increases seen around the country.
That made SUNY a bargain, but it also squeezed the university's budget, resulting in fewer class offerings, larger class sizes and inadequate facilities. Administrators worried aloud that the system would fall behind its peers.
''There was no point to continue to support an institution that the state was backing away from,'' Mr. Simons said in an interview at the Simons Foundation's offices near Madison Square in Manhattan. ''Inexpensive access to mediocrity is not doing anyone such a favor.''
This year, the Legislature and Mr. Cuomo enacted a law that allowed SUNY and the City University of New York to raise tuition by $300 a year for five years and also committed the state to maintaining its support for the universities. Full-time, in-state tuition at SUNY is set to climb to $6,170 in 2014-15, up from $4,970 last year, and for the first time, the system's four main research campuses -- Stony Brook, Binghamton, Albany and Buffalo -- can also charge somewhat more than its smaller universities to out-of-state students.
Dr. Stanley said the Simons gift was being tailored to the areas in which Stony Brook lags noticeably behind the most prestigious public universities around the country: the student-to-faculty ratio, the number of endowed professorships and the life sciences.
''We want to be a top-25 research university,'' he said. ''There's no reason why New York shouldn't have that kind of flagship public university.''
Public universities generally raise far less money from donors than private universities do, but Mr. Simons said he saw support for public schools as vital, ''especially in these days when private universities are so unbelievably expensive.'' As for Stony Brook, he said, ''We have a warm spot in our hearts for that particular institution.''
Marilyn Simons, the president of their foundation, went to Stony Brook as an undergraduate and received a doctorate in economics there. Mr. Simons, who earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics from M.I.T. and a Ph.D., also in mathematics, from the University of California, Berkeley, was appointed chairman of Stony Brook's math department in 1968.
But in 1978, he left academia for finance, becoming one of the first highly successful ''quants'' -- quantitative analysts who use sophisticated math to guide investments. In 1982, he founded Renaissance Technologies, a hedge fund firm; though he stepped down as chief executive two years ago, he remains chairman.
In October, Forbes magazine estimated his worth at $10.6 billion, making him the 30th wealthiest person in the country.
Now semi-retired, he spends more time on charitable work.
''It is fun,'' he said, ''but it's not as much fun as it seems like it would be, since we have to say no a lot.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); CANCER (71%); BUDGETS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); NEUROSCIENCE (66%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (56%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



614 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Inevitable, or in Limbo? A Dam for the Mekong

BYLINE: RACHEL NUWER


HIGHLIGHT: Still absent is a clear commitment from Laos to halt all construction activity related to the proposed dam, which conservationists view as a major environmental threat. 

 BODY:
As The Times reported last week, environment ministers from Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand and Laos have decided to await the results of further studies before making a decision on whether to proceed with construction of a dam in the Mekong River. Conservationists argue that damming the river, a vital and biologically diverse lifeline for people in all four countries, would be irresponsible. (Check out our slide show to get a sense of the river's centrality to people in the basin.) 
What comes next, however, is unclear. The government of Laos, where the dam would be built, is not satisfied with the decision, according to Viraphonh Viravong, the deputy minister of the Laotian Ministry of Energy and Mines. "It would be very sad and not very fair to Laos not to develop the Xayaburi project since this is a very rare opportunity for Laos to attract foreign investment," he wrote in an e-mail to The Times. "We would not be very proud of ourselves to continue begging for development assistance." 
What is more, Laos began preliminary construction at the dam site before last week's meeting and has yet to make a clear commitment to stop construction at Xayaburi. 
"The government of Laos didn't mention the topic at the meeting," said Surasak Glahan, a spokesman for the Mekong River Commission, an intergovernmental body that is responsible for promoting cooperation in the basin and organized the meeting. He said the commission and the other member governments had sent official letters to the Laotian government inquiring about construction activity but had yet to receive a reply.

After the meeting, the Laotian authorities told some members of the local media that the construction activity had nothing to do with the dam and was part of "normal" projects like bringing roads to local communities. 
As we noted here last week, the Xayaburi dam, a 1260-megawatt hydropower project, is the first of 11 proposed mainstream dams on the Mekong River. Although it is aimed at generating much-needed foreign exchange earnings for Laos, scientists and neighboring countries like Vietnam and Cambodia have expressed concern over the project's potential social and environmental impacts since it was first proposed in September 2010. 
Some scientists and conservationists still hope that the project can be shelved altogether. "We will continue to advocate for no dams on the Mekong," said Ame Trandem, the Southeast Asia program director for the nonprofit group International Rivers. She said that damming the river would be "reckless and irresponsible" given the many uncertainties about the project's effects on the ecosystem and local people. 
Zeb Hogan, an aquatic ecologist at the University of Nevada, Reno who has studied the river's ecosystem, said that the Mekong countries had made "a prudent decision" for now that represented "a rare win" for fish and for the millions of people who depend upon fish and the health of the Mekong for their livelihoods.
For critically endangered species like the Mekong giant catfish, the delay preserves the possibility of saving the species from extinction, he said in an e-mail. 
Mr. Viravong counters that the dam's impacts would be "insignificant" and that the project will not cause significant trans-boundary problems downstream. 
Mr. Glahan of the Mekong River Commission said that it was awaiting directions from the four member countries. The nations may request further studies and the drafting of details on what approach the countries would prefer to take in addressing the dam's potential impacts, he said. 
The four countries have already asked Japan to assist in further studies.
Thirteen other nations, including the United States, and donor agencies like the World Bank attended last week's meeting. In a statement, those countries and organizations said they hoped that further studies would address knowledge gaps and "account for the full value of environmental, economic and social services currently provided by the basin." A spokesman for Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state, called the delay "a positive sign," Agence France-Presse reported.
Mr. Viravong said that Laos was recruiting experts on fisheries and sediment to review previous reports evaluating the dam's potential impacts, including a strategic environmental assessment and a controversial report commissioned by Laos that said dam construction would pose no serious risks yet incorporated no new scientific research. He said that such reviews should take two to three months. 
A comprehensive environmental study involving Japan and the other donor countries would probably take 10 years, Mr. Viravong warned. 
The international partners have also recommended deeper engagement with local communities in the decision-making process, especially people who could be most affected by the dam. That would require providing the communities with detailed environmental impact assessments written in their own language at least 30 days before a public consultation, Ms. Trandem said, which has not happened so far in any of the four countries. 
This is especially pressing for Lao communities, who have not been consulted. "They've really heard mixed information," Ms. Trandem said, "Many villages don't even know they need to be resettled, and people living downstream don't know what's happening." 
Mr. Viravong, the Laotian government minister, emphasized that the Xayaburi project would provide clean, renewable and sustainable energy. "This is not for Lao people only, but for the benefit of the region and the whole world," he said. "Please help Laos develop sustainable hydropower projects and don't make this more difficult for the poor people of Laos." 

        
Conclave to Open on Mekong's Fate
        
On Our Radar: Student Confronts U.S. Climate Change Envoy
        
On Our Radar: Spain Lowers Speed Limit as Oil Price Spikes
        
Brazilian Dam Clears Hurdle
        
On Our Radar: Fines For Energy-Inefficient Landlords

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); RIVERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (69%); FISHERIES (60%) Cambodia; China; dams; ecosystems; fishing; Laos; Mekong River; Thailand; Endangered and Extinct Species; Foreign Investments; Hydroelectric Power; Levees and Dams; World Bank; Japan; United States; Vietnam; conservation; Endangered Species; Energy Business; Energy Politics; fisheries; Living; Politics and Policy; renewable energy; Research/Studies; Rivers; Science

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (50%) NEVADA, USA (79%) LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (99%); VIET NAM (94%); CAMBODIA (94%); THAILAND (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Cambodia; Japan; Laos; United States; Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



615 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Relieved by Climate Talks' Outcome

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: "It would be an overstatement to say it went smoothly, but in the end it went," the top United States climate envoy says of the talks in Durban, South Africa. 

 BODY:
 The senior American climate change envoy, Todd D. Stern, is back in Washington from the double-overtime United Nations negotiations in Durban, South Africa, and has declared himself pretty well satisfied with the result, although closing the deal wasn't easy. 
 "I think this has ended up being quite a significant agreement and very much along the lines of what we've been pushing," Mr. Stern said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. "That was not fully expected when we went in."
 He said the United States team arrived in Durban with two goals. The first was to deepen the agreements reached at the two previous United Nations climate conferences, in Copenhagen and Cancun, Mexico. That meant establishing the terms for a fund to help poor nations adapt to climate change, strengthening programs to monitor emissions reductions and setting up a center to develop and spread clean energy technology. 
There were, as always, disagreements about how countries report progress toward their emissions reductions goals and what sort of international verification regime is acceptable. Negotiators ultimately resolved these questions or agreed to deal with them later.
 "There were lots of bumps, lots of difficulties, right up to the last 48 hours," Mr. Stern said. "It would be an overstatement to say it went smoothly, but in the end it went."
The Americans' second goal was to find some solution to what could be called the Kyoto conundrum -- that is, what sort of treaty or agreement should replace the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 deal that essentially required developed countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by specified amounts while putting no limits on those from the developing world, including fast-rising economies like China, India, Brazil and South Africa. 
The United States never joined Kyoto, Canada just announced it was quitting it, and a number of other major countries, including Russia and Japan, said they would not participate in any further rounds of emissions pledges under it.
Resolving that problem proved to be a huge challenge, and the reason that a conference that was supposed to end Friday evening did not conclude until sunrise on Sunday. The battle pitted the European Union and a bloc of less developed countries that were determined to see Kyoto live on at least for a while, against the United States, China and India. The standoff boiled down to a dispute over what most observers would consider arcane legal language but that meant a lot to the parties involved.
In Mr. Stern's telling, the United States was decisive in resolving the fight, first by announcing earlier in the week that it was willing to participate in some legally-binding future international climate regime, as long as all nations participated under the same terms. That was seen as a breakthrough, although, as Mr. Stern noted, it has been the American position for years.
Then, in an early-morning huddle on Sunday on the floor of the conference, the American team came up with the language that finally persuaded India to accept the legal character of any future agreement, simply by rearranging a few words.
Mr. Stern credited Susan Biniaz, a veteran lawyer at the State Department, with devising the formula that broke the logjam. At her suggestion, Mr. Stern said, the words "legal outcome" were changed to "agreed outcome with legal force." That proved to be enough for the Indian delegate, Jayanthi Natarajan, who had insisted angrily all week that India could not agree to any climate treaty that hindered her nation's economic growth.
"That was the last sticking point, and then we were done," Mr. Stern said.
Of course there is a lot of work ahead. The delegates agreed only to begin negotiations with a deadline of 2015 to produce a new agreement to take effect in 2020. There is no certainty about what will be in such an agreement, and no confidence that the United States Senate will ratify it. But those are problems for another day.
Robert N. Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at Harvard University, said there was a real danger that the Durban talks would end in a complete impasse but that somehow the negotiators managed to paper over their differences.
"Not only did Durban not undo the progress made in Cancun, it built upon it, and moved forward," Mr. Stavins said in a blog post at the end of the meeting. "In the real world of international negotiations on this exceptionally difficult global commons problem, this is what success looks like."

        
On Our Radar: A European Warning to Big Emitters
        
On Our Radar: Weakening Brazil's Forest Protections
        
On Our Radar: Student Confronts U.S. Climate Change Envoy
        
On Our Radar: China Hints at Emissions Timetable
        
On Our Radar: Brazilian Forest Advocate and Wife Slain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); POLITICS (79%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SALES & SELLING (57%) Brazil; China; climate change; COP-17; Durban; India; Todd D. Stern; United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; United States; Stavins, Robert N; Stern, Todd D; Economic Conditions and Trends; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Kyoto Protocol; Politics and Government; Third World and Developing Countries; Treaties; United States International Relations; State Department; United Nations; Durban (South Africa); Kyoto (Japan); Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%) State Department; United Nations

PERSON: Stavins, Robert N; Stern, Todd D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); CHINA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (86%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) Durban (South Africa); Kyoto (Japan); United States

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



616 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Interest Rates, Inflation, and the Way the World Works (Slightly Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Liquidity trap rules. 

 BODY:
Newish commenters here often fail to understand why I highlight things like falling inflation in Britain or the extremely low interest rates at which the governments of non-euro nations can borrow. Is it just I-told-you-so? No. It's about economic models -- how the world works. And of course such models have policy implications.
Early on in this crisis I and quite a few other economists -- but not enough! -- declared that we had entered a classic liquidity trap. This is a situation in which even a zero short-term interest rate isn't low enough to restore full employment; it is, if you think through the logic, a situation in which desired saving, or more accurately the savings people would make if we were at full employment, exceed desired investment even at a zero interest rate.
The liquidity trap -- which is in effect a special case of IS-LM analysis -- has some special properties. Notably, even large government borrowing won't drive up interest rates (not unless the borrowing is enough to restore full employment), and you can print as much money as you like without causing inflation.
The other side, mainly on the political right, ridiculed these claims. They declared that soaring inflation was just around the corner, and that interest rates would spike.
It's worth pointing out, by the way, that while conservatives have seized on European sovereign debt for vindication, the euro story is very different from the story conservatives were originally telling. Italian rates are high because of solvency concerns, while the original right-wing story for interest rates was all about competing for private funds, not worries about repayment. Here's Brian Riedl of Heritage, in early 2009:
The government is going to have to raise interest rates in order to convince people to lend them the full amount they need. We're already facing a deficit of $1.2 trillion this year, and 700 billion next year. We borrowed $700 billion for TARP, and now we're going to borrow $800 billion for this stimulus package. Compare those numbers to the entire public debt, which was 5.8 trillion up until a few months ago. It's going to be very difficult for a global economy, which is already in a recession, to supply the U.S. government with [$3 trillion] in new borrowing. Right now, a lot of banks are happy to buy Treasury bonds because they are safe investments . . . but overall, that may not be enough. The government may have to raise interest rates higher and higher and higher in order to persuade people to lend their diminishing savings to the government. And that's going to hurt the economy for a long time.
So here we are, at the end of 2011. The Fed has "printed" a lot of money (actually added a lot of money to bank reserves):
And the government has continued to borrow huge amounts:
So how's it going?
Interest rates have, of course, remained very low. As I post this, the real interest rate on 10-year bonds is actually negative. 
On the inflation side, the right seized on the runup in commodity prices between the summer of 2010 and the early part of this year as evidence that inflation was taking off -- and this runup did lead to a bump in headline inflation. But as I could have told them -- and did, repeatedly -- this was not a case of domestically generated inflation, which remained low; it was mainly about demand from emerging markets. Since the spring commodity prices have headed down again, and inflation has been subsiding.
The moral of the story, then, is that one view of macroeconomics has held up very well in the Lesser Depression; the alternatives have been shown wrong again and again.
I would like to see some of the people on the other side of this debate admit that they got it wrong and change their views. Also, I'd like a pony.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BONDS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (67%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



617 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Older to Wed, If They Marry at All

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The median age of first marriage is at an all-time high, according to a new report from Pew Research Center based on census data. 

 BODY:
The median age of first marriage is at an all-time high, according to a new report from the Pew Research Center based on United States Census Bureau data.
In 2010, the median age at first marriage for women was 26.5 years, and for men it was 28.7 years. Fifty years ago, the comparable ages were about six years younger for both genders.
The total number of new marriages was also at a record low last year, perhaps in part because the poor economy was causing couples to delay forming new families. (The connection between economic conditions and marriage rates is murky, however.)
The biggest declines in new marriage rates was among the youngest Americans. As a result of the declining number of weddings in recent years, just 9 percent of Americans age 18 to 24 had a spouse in 2010, about a fifth of the share for this age group in 1960.
With the overall declines in marriage rates, it is unclear if young people are simply delaying marriage or rejecting it altogether. But given how many unmarried Americans say they are not interested in matrimonial bliss, there is reason to think it is largely the latter.

        
What Is a Family?
        
I Do, I Do, I Do: Mapping Serial Marriage
        
The Economics of Men Behaving Badly
        
Inequality Rising Across the Developed World
        
The Oscar Curse (or, Why It Stinks to Be a Successful Woman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); CENSUS (91%); FAMILY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%) family economics; marriage; Pew Research Center; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



618 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: More Detail on Top Incomes

BYLINE: JASON DEPARLE


HIGHLIGHT: Researchers have compiled information on the top incomes in the United States from 1913 to 2009. 

 BODY:
The Times recently published an article noting a significant decline in the incomes of the top 1 percent.
Their share of national income - a common benchmark of inequality - fell to 17 percent in 2009, from 23 percent in 2007, according to federal tax data. Within the group, average income fell by about a third, to $959,000 in 2009 from $1.4 million in 2007.
Analysts say the drop largely reflects the stock market plunge and most say they think incomes recovered somewhat in 2010 as the market rebounded.
For readers who want to do their own analysis, Emmanuel Saez, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, and a French colleague, Thomas Piketty, have compiled annual data on top incomes from 1913 to 2008. They maintain a database that is easily searched. 
Steven Kaplan of the University of Chicago updated their time series for 2009. The spreadsheet, via Mr. Kaplan, is below, and downloadable here as a pdf.

        
Who Counts as 'Rich'? Continued
        
Who Counts as 'Rich'?
        
Fatalism and the American Dream
        
Growing Economies, Stagnant Wages
        
New York Metro Area Has Highest Inequality in Country

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%) Income; Income Inequality; inequality; United States

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



619 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Michael Kors Stock, Like His Frocks, Is Selling Fast

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The fashion designer's company priced its initial public offering at $20 a share, raising $950 million and valuing the retailer at $3.8 billion. 

 BODY:
8:29 p.m. | Updated 
Michael Kors seems to be everywhere. The fashion designer's stores are popping up across the world, with his largest just opening in Paris. His oversize gold watches are white-hot Christmas gifts. As a judge on Lifetime's "Project Runway," Mr. Kors is also a staple on cable television.
His latest debut is less haute couture and more high finance. 
On Wednesday, his Hong Kong-based company, where Mr. Kors is the chief creative officer, priced its initial public offering at $20, above the expected range of $17 to $19. The stock sale, which raised nearly $950 million, values the company at $3.8 billion.
The I.P.O. caps a period of extraordinary growth for the company. Profits are on track to more than double this year, and sales are increasing at an annual rate of about 60 percent. 
Such rapid expansion has raised the eyebrows of retail analysts, who question whether the Kors label will maintain its cachet or succumb to the fickleness of fashion.
"Everybody wants to be the next Ralph Lauren," said Faye Landes, a retail analyst at Consumer Edge Research in Stamford, Conn. "But how lasting the brand will be remains an open question."
Kors is also selling its shares into a choppy market. Investors have shied away from unproven companies, amid concerns over the European debt crisis and the sluggish United States economy. Stock of several hot debuts, like the Internet companies Groupon and Pandora, have dropped below their offering prices.
Newly public fashion stocks have been soft, too. Prada, the Italian luxury retailer, is down since its debut, while a rival, Ferragamo, is flat.
Analysts are worried that Kors could suffer too, especially with the insiders paring back their holdings through the I.P.O. and an earlier private sale of shares. The stock is set to start trading Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker KORS.
For now, it appears Kors stock is as hot as its dresses. Orders for the I.P.O. greatly exceeded the amount of shares sold, people briefed on the deal said, driving up the price of the offering.
"In the early days of trading, the hot money drives the performance of Michael Kors, the stock," said John E. Fitzgibbon Jr., publisher of IPOscoop.com. "But over time, as that moves out, investors will start to focus on Michael Kors, the company."
Michael Kors, the person, was born Karl Anderson Jr. He changed his first name and borrowed the last name, Kors, from his mother's second husband, Bill Kors, who had adopted him. He grew up in Merrick, N.Y., which he has called the home of "Olympic shoppers" and credits with fostering his fashion sense.
Mr. Kors, a Fashion Institute of Technology dropout, designed a collection for Lothar's, the Manhattan boutique, now defunct. He started his own business in 1981, creating designer apparel that developed a cult following among the Upper East Side crowd. Today, trendsetters like Michelle Obama and Angelina Jolie favor his frocks.
But most of the company's recent growth has come from its lower-end Michael by Michael Kors line, which sells sequined wrap dresses for $150 and python-embossed shoulder bags for $228. The cheaper clothes and purses, which a Kors executive described to potential investors last week as "Hermes for Staten Island," are big sellers at Macy's and Lord & Taylor. 
Or, as Mr. Kors put it in an interview with Women's Wear Daily, "It doesn't matter what your pocketbook is, everyone wants to look thin and rich."
While not affecting Mr. Kors's waistline, the I.P.O. will make him rich. Mr. Kors, 52, the company's honorary chairman and chief creative officer, is selling stock worth about $117 million, or roughly a third of his holdings. He maintains an 8.6 percent ownership stake, worth about $327 million at the offering price.
The I.P.O. adds to a year of personal milestones for Mr. Kors. In August, he and his boyfriend, Lance LePere, married in a barefoot ceremony on Dune Beach in Southampton. They met two decades ago when Mr. LePere worked as an intern at Michael Kors. Today, Mr. LePere is the creative director of the company's women's line. 
Kors stock, in many ways, is not a bet on Mr. Kors, but on Lawrence S. Stroll and Silas K. F. Chou, the fashion tycoons who control the majority of the company's stock and have fueled its growth. Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou run Sportswear Holdings Limited, which acquired Kors in 2003 for about $100 million. Their ambitions were to bring the luxury sensibility of Mr. Kors to the masses and turn it into the next great American designer firm.
They sought to replicate their success with the Tommy Hilfiger Corporation. Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou were early Tommy Hilfiger investors in the late 1980s and aggressively expanded that business, pushing it into department stores and broadening its customer base. The two men made millions when the company went public in 1992. (Today, Tommy Hilfiger is owned by the apparel giant PVH Corporation.)
Retail analysts say that while Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou have a record of success, they have also had some stumbles, including their failed investment in Asprey, the London luxury brand.
They also point to some specific concerns with the Kors deal. Because the company is based in Hong Kong and Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou control the majority of its stock, Kors does not have to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. For instance, the company will not be required to have a majority of independent board members.
The I.P.O. does not include Kors's Chinese business, which is a separate entity and remains controlled by Mr. Stroll, Mr. Chou and Mr. Kors. That means that the company, at least for now, will not benefit from the tremendous growth that other luxury retailers have seen in China.
Another red flag is the large amount of stock being sold by the owners. Besides Mr. Kors's stake, the holding company of Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou is selling $519 million worth of stock. After the I.P.O., they will own 35 percent of the company, worth $1.4 billion.
It is the second time this year the owners have cut their holdings. This summer, they sold $500 million worth of shares in a private sale to mutual fund firms like Fidelity and T. Rowe Price.
 "There are aspects of this deal that are opaque," said Ms. Landes, the analyst. "Plus, the fact that the insiders are selling so much stock is a potential cause for concern."
An earlier version of this article misstated the network currently showing "Project Runway," the cable television series on which Michael Kors is a judge. It is now shown on Lifetime; it was previously shown on Bravo.

        
Zynga Readies for I.P.O. Roadshow
        
As Investors Flee Groupon, Outlook for I.P.O.'s Darkens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (91%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); DEBT CRISIS (64%); EURO CRISIS (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); CHRISTMAS (57%) Ferragamo; Groupon; Lawrence S. Stroll; michael kors; Pandora; Prada; Silas K.F. Chou; Kors, Michael; Initial Public Offerings; Chou, Silas K.F.; Stroll, Lawrence S.; I.P.O./Offerings; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (58%) Kors, Michael

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) FRANCE (90%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



620 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of the Top 1 Percent

BYLINE: JOHN SIDES


HIGHLIGHT: The top 1 percent are different from most, a survey finds, partly because of their political involvement. 

 BODY:
What are the political attitudes of the very wealthy? How, and how much, do they differ from the less wealthy? The combination of growing inequality, a weak economy, and Occupy Wall Street's ability to focus political debate on inequality makes the answers to these questions particularly relevant.
One answer to these questions comes from a new analysis by Gallup that made the rounds last week. By aggregating 61 polls from 2009-2011, they were able to measure the opinions of about 400 respondents with annual incomes of $500,000 or above. Gallup reports only modest differences in their party identification: 57 percent of the 1 percent identify as or lean Republican, compared to 44 percent of the 99 percent. There are virtually no differences in how they identify ideologically: 39 percent of the 1 percent identify as conservative, compared to 40 percent of the 99 percent.
But the Gallup analysis may overstate the similarity of the two groups. A second study, authored by the political scientists Benjamin Page, Fay Lomax Cook, and Rachel Moskowitzand recently released by the Russell Sage Foundation, found that the politics of the very wealthy are strikingly different.
Their study, which was part of a larger project called the Study of Economically Successful Americans and the Common Good, involved something unusual: a random sample of the rich. In particular, they interviewed 104 wealthy individuals in the Chicago area between February and June 2011. The sampling frame, constructed from various sources, was essentially the top 1 percent in terms of wealth (not income, as in the Gallup analysis). The response rate among the wealthy individuals they contacted was 37 percent, which may seem low on its face but is quite respectable by contemporary standards. The median wealth of this group was $7.5 million. (Of course, the broader project is surveying wealthy people nationwide, not only in Chicago.)
What did the survey find? For one, balance of party identification in this sample is very similar to what Gallup found: 58 percent of this sample identified as or lean Republican. In several other ways, however, the political behavior of the top 1 percent diverges more strongly from the 99 percent than Gallup's analysis suggests.
The 1 percent cares more about deficits than the economy. When asked to name the most important problem facing the country, 32 percent of respondents said the deficit and 11 percent said the economy. By contrast, in an April 2011 CBS News/New York Times poll, 49 percent of Americans said the economy or jobs and only 5 percent said the deficit.
The 1 percent wants private-sector solutions, not government solutions. Among those who considered the deficit the most important problem, 65 percent favored spending cuts and 24 percent favored a combination of spending cuts and revenue increases. By contrast, a September 2011 New York Times/CBS News poll found that only 21 percent of respondents favored spending cuts exclusively. The majority (71 percent) favored spending cuts and tax increases.
The 1 percent is vastly more politically active. In the Chicago sample, 99 percent reported voting in 2008; in the 2008 American National Election Study, only 78 percent of a nationally representative sample reported voting. Both numbers are probably inflated - nowhere near 78 percent of Americans actually voted in 2008 -- but it seems unlikely that misleading survey responses would fully account for the gap between the 1 percent and Americans as a whole. Other measures of participation show even larger gaps. For example, 41 percent of the very wealthy reported attending a political meeting. Only 9 percent of Americans did so in 2008. And 68 percent of the very wealthy reported giving money to a political candidate, party, or cause in the last four years. In 2008--a year in which "small donors" were numerous--only 13 percent of Americans donated to a political candidate or party. Again, there are small differences in the wording of the questions between the two surveys, but they are not likely responsible for the 55-point gap.
There is more in the study. Here, for example, is a taste of Page, Cook, and Moskowitz's findings regarding philanthropy:
Although many of our respondents express skepticism about government programs, and although some explicitly say that private philanthropy offers a superior approach, there is no strong tendency for those who are most suspicious of government to do more in the way of charitable activity.
To be sure, this is very much a project in progress. But even these initial results, however unsurprising, are important. Other scholars have found that, when the attitudes of the wealthy and less wealthy diverge, policy is much more in line with the attitudes of the wealthy. The activism evident in the Chicago sample may explain why: they do much more to articulate their views to politicians. (Of course, politicians themselves are often in the 1 percent.) These inequalities in political voice may then give rise to policies that perpetuate unequal outcomes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); POLITICS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); CHARITIES (71%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Income Inequality; Philanthropy; Polls and Public Opinion; Taxation; United States Economy; CBS Corporation; Occupy Wall Street; Russell Sage Foundation; Chicago (Ill); United States; CBS Corporation|CBS|NYSE; Economics; Politics

ORGANIZATION: CBS Corporation; Occupy Wall Street; Russell Sage Foundation

TICKER: CBS Corporation; CBS; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Chicago (Ill); United States

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011



621 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Hiring, 'Quits' and Layoffs

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Data on hiring and job losses can be misleading, particularly when the terminology is blurred to secure unemployment insurance, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The recession and lack of recovery have often been characterized as a lack of hiring, rather than an extraordinary number of employer-employee "separations" (a separation is a layoff or what the Bureau of Labor Statistics calls a "quit"). But the aggregate data on hiring, quits and layoffs can be misleading.
The chart below from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows total hires, separations and total employment from December 2000 to December 2009. The shaded area to the right indicates the start of the most recent recession. Both separations and hires fell about 20 percent (the hires dropped sooner).
However, this characterization is quite different for young people than for the rest of the work force. Even during business cycle expansions, young people have high rates of job turnover. The number of young people hired during a typical month is disproportionately high, as is the number of young people quitting or getting laid off (I use the term "layoff" to refer to both layoffs and discharges).
For this reason, young people could dominate the job turnover statistics, even while they do not dominate the employment statistics.

A paper by Michael Elsby, Bart Hobijn and Aysegul Sahin, using a method developed by my University of Chicago colleague Robert Shimer, estimated job separations for different age groups according to the number of people flowing into unemployment. They found a very different pattern for people 16-24 than they did for people 25-54.
Estimated job separations among employees ages 25-54 were 33 percent greater in 2009 than they were in 2007. I tried to update their estimates through 2010 and found that job separations still remained greater than they were in 2007.
In contrast, the low employment rates for young people since 2007 are almost entirely explained by low hiring rates.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics also reports that the composition of job separations has changed a lot since 2007. Before the recession began, quits were by far the most common type of separation; now the number of quits about equals the number of layoffs.
Perhaps the decline in quits is a signal of what's ailing the economy, although I view it largely as a consequence of the unemployment insurance system. A person who quits his or her job is not eligible for unemployment insurance. As a result, calling a job separation a "quit" rather than a "layoff" results in the loss of unemployment benefits.
I estimate that, before the recession began, a person beginning unemployment would receive about 12 weeks of unemployment benefits, on average, if he or she were eligible for benefits. By 2010, that average was up to about 34 weeks. At $300 a week, that means that the government subsidy for calling a separation a "layoff" rather than a resignation was up to about $10,000 from $3,600.
There is also the employer payroll tax consequence of layoffs to consider, but overall employers and employees now often have a lot to gain by calling their separation a layoff rather than a quit.
These are a couple of reasons the aggregate data on hiring, quits and layoffs can be misleading. Even so, the very different patterns for people 16-24 and 25-54 may suggest that the recession and lack of recovery have more than one cause.

        
With Unemployment Insurance, Is 99 Weeks the Magic Number?
        
The Biggest Cut in Unemployment Benefits
        
Unemployment Compensation Over Time
        
Millions Caught by the Social Safety Net
        
Who Gets Unemployment Benefits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); STATISTICS (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; hiring; layoffs; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; young people; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%) Bureau of Labor Statistics

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



622 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Meet the New Motherlode Blogger

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: I'm thrilled to be here - and I want to know what you think Motherlode should be, and what topics you want to see us cover. 

 BODY:
Welcome to Motherlode? Hardly. It is you who I hope will welcome me. Although I've been a reader since the beginning (and occasionally a contributor), stepping into what I think of as the "big boots" of Motherlode is daunting and thrilling. As a writer and blogger, I've always thought of Motherlode as, well, the motherlode: the ultimate place to start or join a conversation about the way we raise children now. I'm very happy to be here.
Motherlode will stay what it has always been: a homing point for Times readers looking for the latest angle on what parents are thinking about, talking about and worrying about. It will remain a place to talk about the ways we raise our own kids, and the ways that we as parents - through our voices, our choices and our votes - influence the way we raise all children. But there will be more firsthand reporting. There will be more commentary on the news, and posts about the latest research on children and family. There will be regular contributors, guest posts and new features, like Parental Quandaries, that give us a set of facts to riff from as we consider the philosophical and ethical questions that plague parents far more often than most of us expected when we signed on for this gig. And there will be me, joining you here and in the comments, talking about it all.
I've been a journalist since 2003. (Before that? A corporate lawyer and a New York City prosecutor.) I came by writing about families in the way many writers do: I had one. My first son was born at New York University Hospital 10 years ago; he was followed by a sister, a brother and then, just over two years ago now, another sister, adopted as a 3-year-old from China. At first, I wrote about family because I was in the thick of it; now, I write about family because nearly every other subject that interests me - policy, economics, relationships, science, education, ethics - affects how we live as families and how we as families live in the world around us.
My kids are 10, 7, 6 and 5 now. I'm in the thick of parenting still (I'm writing this while helping my fifth grader with his homework, which entails frequent reminders that his history teacher is not looking for my views on Francisco Vasquez de Coronado). We're on the verge of the pre-teenage and teenage years and just out of the baby and toddler woods. When I read that a fellow working parent has a pack of demanding kids clamoring at her heels, I always want to know how she does it. In my case, it's thanks to a husband who does laundry and makes breakfast, a baby sitter who mixes my four kids in with her three, a cleaning service and a laissez-faire attitude toward things like on-time holiday cards and matching socks.
Now that I'm here, I want to know what you think Motherlode should be, and what topics you want to see us cover. Even after just a few weeks of filling in, I already know that some of you are excited to see more posts about the economy, military families and the ways family life has become even more challenging in the last few years. I know nearly all of you want to see comments roll in faster, and I'll do my best. And I know that a surprisingly large number of you think I'm completely wrong to lie to my children about what time it is on Sunday nights in an attempt to score an earlier bedtime for all (I prefer to think if it as obstructing the truth via creative clock adjustment).
That last one is a reminder of one of the things I love about Motherlode: the fact that readers are so ready to weigh in with opinions, and the fact that we're all consistently amazed by the gaps those opinions open up among us. Alone in our kitchens (and living rooms and cars), it's easy to forget that the way we handle everything from breakfast to bedtime is just one way to do it - not the best way, not the right way, just our way. It's my hope that as we talk about those ways of being and doing, we'll all find ourselves thinking more not just about the parents we are, but about the parents we want to be, and how wide the gulf can sometimes be between the two. That gulf is the space where the Motherlode conversation starts, and now it's where I start. Thanks for having me here.

        
Should Airlines Police What We Watch in Flight?
        
Is It O.K. for Doctors to Turn Away Unvaccinated Kids?
        
How Graphic Should Sex Education Get?
        
Why Don't More Moms Coach?
        
How Do We Define Bullying?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); JOURNALISM (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); PARENTING (76%); HISTORY (72%); ETHICS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%) KJ Dell'Antonia

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%); CHINA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



623 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: When Child Care Subsidies Disappear, Care is Hard to Find

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: Every working parent knows good child care is hard to find. When subsidies disappear for lower-income parents, it gets harder. 

 BODY:
How can you be a working parent without child care? Day care, preschool, after-school programs: without them, or some alternative, a parent of younger school-age children can work only from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., and a parent of even younger children can't work at all.
But (do I really need to say this?) parents - except for those with sufficient private income to render child care expenses a moot point - have to work. While parents at every income level struggle with pulling together quality child care, it's always been even more difficult for low-income parents. Even parents with solid working-class jobs are priced out of the market in many places (notoriously so in New York City and its surroundings).
Those parents, and parents pulling together multiple jobs or getting by on a combination of work and aid, often rely on subsidized child care, which historically has been supported by ideologies as diverse as Newt Gingrich's Contract With America and the most liberal alternatives. That care (subsidized by a mix of federal and state funds) is the latest victim of an economy gone south. In this morning's Times, Sabrina Tavernise reported that low-income parents lucky enough to have steady work increasingly find themselves on waiting lists for a subsidy, or denied altogether. The result is an 11-year-old riding a bus all afternoon behind her grandmother, the bus driver; child care in a nail salon; and an assortment of hastily assembled, makeshift solutions that may sound familiar to any working parent, but don't provide the consistency or stability that helps kids thrive.
Thanks so much to everyone who's welcomed me to Motherlode and offered suggestions for what will clearly be some great discussions. I'm compiling, thinking and getting ready to respond -- tomorrow and in coming weeks. Meanwhile, there's this: many comments on "Aid for Child Care Drops When It Is Needed Most" are revisiting the familiar debates about poverty and welfare, but some raise a point that's familiar to most of us here at Motherlode: good child care is hard to find at any income level, and even parents with middle-class jobs can find that half of their income goes straight to baby sitters, day care or nannies.
Have you found yourself caught between needing to work and not knowing who would care for your kids while you did? Or trying to decide if a job that barely covers child care is really worth it? How can we better provide child care, subsidized or not, for everyone who needs it?

        
Parental Quandary: The Mooching Working Mother
        
Stay-at-Home Fathers Aren't So Rare Anymore
        
Day Care That's Available at Night, Too
        
Bringing Your Baby to Work
        
Jailed for Taking Kids to Jury Duty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (94%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); MEN (69%) Child Care; low income families; welfare

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



624 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Credit Agricole to Eliminate Up to 2,300 Jobs

BYLINE: DAVID JOLLY and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Credit Agricole announced Wednesday that it would cut 2,350 jobs as the French bank scales back its operations to adapt to continued instability in the world's financial markets. 

 BODY:
4:40 p.m. | Updated 
PARIS -- Credit Agricole announced Wednesday that it would cut 2,350 jobs as the French bank scales back its operations to adapt to continued instability in the world's financial markets.
The announcement came after local union officials had confirmed the bank layoffs, which will be spread across Credit Agricole's investment banking and consumer finance businesses.
France's third-largest listed bank also said it expects to report a loss in 2011 after writing down 2.5 billion euros, or $3.2 billion, primarily connected to its investment banking division.
The bank plans not to not pay a dividend to shareholders this year, and said the current economic instability, particularly around the Europe's ongoing debt crisis, made it difficult to outline the its future financial targets.
"The lack of visibility on the economic and financial climate do not make it possible, at this point in time, to confirm its targets," the bank said in a statement.
The announced layoffs are the result of the broad fallout from the sovereign debt crisis, which is wreaking havoc from Europe to Wall Street. Like its French rival Societe Generale, which is planning to eliminate jobs in New York, Credit Agricole needs to reduce its balance sheet and exit risky businesses.
American money-market funds have been cutting their exposure to European banks over concerns about the euro, making some dollar-denominated businesses untenable.
On Wednesday, Fitch Ratings downgraded Credit Agricole's credit rating to A+, from AA-, citing the French bank's exposure to the growing problems in the euro zone. 
Fitch's action follows Moody's Investors Service, which on Friday downgraded Credit Agricole, along with Societe Generale and BNP Paribas, citing funding problems. The ratings agency also warned that the banks faced further losses on their holdings of Greek and Italian government bonds if the crisis in the euro zone were to deepen.

        
Moody's Downgrades French Banks
        
Europe Investigating Banks Over Derivatives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); DEBT CRISIS (88%); EURO CRISIS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%) BNP Paribas; Credit Agricole; Societe Generale; Credit Agricole d'Ile-de-France; BNP Paribas|BNPQY|other-OTC; Societe Generale|SCGLY|other-OTC; Investment Banking

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (92%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BNP Paribas; Credit Agricole d'Ile-de-France; Societe Generale

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (92%); ACA (BIT) (92%); GLE (PAR) (92%); GLE (BIT) (92%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%) BNP Paribas; BNPQY; other-OTC; BNP Paribas; BNPQY; other-OTC; Societe Generale; SCGLY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



625 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: In Hunt for Securities Fraud, a Timid S.E.C. Misses the Big Game

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities and Exchange Commission has been defending its policy to settle securities fraud cases, but the public wants a "Law &#038; Order" moment in the biggest economic fiasco of our time, the financial crisis. 

 BODY:
Does the Securities and Exchange Commission suffer from trialphobia?
Ever since Judge Jed S. Rakoff rejected the S.E.C.'s settlement with Citigroup over a malignant mortgage securities deal, the agency has been defending its policy to settle securities fraud cases. But the public wants a "Law & Order" moment, and who can blame them?
Of course, there was one criminal trial. Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn brought a case against two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers who blew up the firm's internal fund, eventually leading to the demise of Bear. They were acquitted.
But so far, there's been no civil trial in a major case directly related to the biggest economic fiasco of our time: the financial crisis.
The S.E.C. contends that it has received more than $1.2 billion in penalties from financial crisis cases, having accused 81 people and entities, 39 of them chief executives and other senior officers. And it doesn't avoid trials altogether. The agency has averaged almost 14 trials a year from 2008 to 2010, compared with about eight from 2001 to 2003. Finally, in cases that haven't yet gone to trial, the S.E.C. has charged some low-level bankers from big Wall Street firms - but no masters of the universe.
As for the near future, the agency might actually have a financial crisis trial. Right now, it looks as if cases against the mortgage bank IndyMac, the brokerage firm Stifel Nicolaus and the executives who blew up the Reserve Primary money market fund could go to court. But do you see the pattern? None of those is a major investment bank. The S.E.C. is just not hauling in the big boys.
That could change if the S.E.C. sued Citigroup. As Judge Rakoff noted, Citigroup is a "recidivist," repeatedly flouting securities laws. In its settlement with the bank, the agency cited only one mortgage securities deal, but as my ProPublica colleague Jake Bernstein and I wrote, there are many more that look just as rotten.
Yet the reason for putting Citigroup in the dock goes beyond the bank itself. The S.E.C. is not getting big enough settlements out of the largest banks. It's not bringing enough financial cases. It isn't going after the big banks' top executives. It's being way too cautious in its interpretation of its role as defender of the fairness and sanctity of the markets. The frustration, shared by Judge Rakoff and the rest of humanity, is all the greater because the agency rarely, if ever, gets anyone to admit guilt when they settle.
This renders the settlements little more than turning on the light in a kitchen full of roaches. Instead of teaching the banks a lesson, the settlements merely show how the bad actors are scattered everywhere - and the public watches the banks scurry into the pantry to feast some more.
To the S.E.C., this view is profoundly unfair.
The agency's message is, "if you want to resolve a case short of a contested proceeding, come in and be prepared to provide the type of relief we would obtain at the end of a trial," said Lorin L. Reisner, the S.E.C.'s deputy director of enforcement.
"And where that's not available, we'll go to the mat."
On a case-by-case basis, the S.E.C.'s argument for settling is strong. While the public loves a court case, lawyers often believe that trials are failures. They are expensive, time-consuming and capricious, especially in financial cases that are often so complex they challenge even sophisticated juries.
Generally, securities regulators can rack up more enforcement actions by settling. And the agency would do only civil trials anyway; it's the Justice Department that undertakes criminal trials, which probably are a greater deterrent to white-collar crime.
Fair enough. But here's the rub: By taking this doctrine too far, the S.E.C. has undermined its negotiating position.
Agency officials continually advertise how few resources they have, how costly trials are and how irresponsible it is to shareholders to force a trial when a reasonable settlement can be won instead.
Last month, for example, Robert S. Khuzami, the agency's head of enforcement,trumpeted the S.E.C.'s "record-breaking performance during a period of resource constraints."
In doing so, the agency has Beltway blinkers on. Sure, it's speaking to Congress, but Wall Street is also listening. When it complains, even legitimately, about its budget or how costly and difficult trials are, the S.E.C. is inadvertently showing its belly to Wall Street in a sign of submission. It's whimpering that it will shy away from a trial, afraid of draining its coffers.
When it's not signaling its fear about spending money, S.E.C. officials are often talking about how complex financial crisis cases are. In a recent conversation with James B. Stewart of The New York Times, Mr. Khuzami almost sounded as if he were Citigroup's counsel, a role for which he is well suited since he held that role at Deutsche Bank before joining the S.E.C. In that interview, he made Citigroup's case for it. But the bank's lawyers get paid enough and don't need his help.
Above all, the S.E.C. worries about losing. That means it doesn't push cases that would broaden definitions of securities fraud, the ambitious cases that penetrate the gray areas and eliminate murk as a defense against wrongdoing.
In his interview with Mr. Stewart, Mr. Khuzami worried aloud that Citigroup might have made the proper disclosure in its mortgage deal when it mentioned that it was possible the deal might have an adverse impact on its customers. Might have? It absolutely did have a clear adverse impact. If you raise an issue as a mere hypothetical when you know for a fact that it's occurring, isn't that misleading? Shouldn't that be tested? And tested in court, so that a precedent is set?
To overcome its greatest fear, the S.E.C needs to realize that it can win even if it loses. A trial against a big bank could be helpful regardless of the outcome. It would generate public interest. It would put a face on complex transactions that often are known only by abbreviations or acronyms. Litigation would cost the bank money, too. And it could cast the way Wall Street does business in such an unflattering light that even if the bank won, it might bring about better behavior.
A trial would show boldness. And when the S.E.C. found itself at the negotiating table again, it would feel a new respect.

        
Citigroup Deal to Go to Judge Critical of S.E.C. Practices
        
Citigroup Settles Subprime Claims for $75 Million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ACQUITTAL (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (64%) Citigroup; Judge Jed S. Rakoff; Robert Khuzami; Securities and Exchange Commission; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Legal/Regulatory; The Trade

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (99%) Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



626 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Balanced Budget Amendments Fall Short in the Senate

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: The Senate rejected proposed amendments to the Constitution offered by Democrats and Republicans, who have made it a central part of their fiscal agenda. 

 BODY:
The Senate on Wednesday rejected rival balanced budget amendments to the Constitution, dealing a blow to Republicans who have made it a central part of their fiscal platform.
A Democratic version proposed by Senator Mark Udall of Colorado fell short 21 to 79, while a Republican version proposed by Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah failed along party lines 47 to 53. To pass, the amendments needed support from two-thirds of the Senate, or 67 votes.
A balanced budget amendment failed last month in the Republican-led House. The vote was 261 to 165; it needed 290 votes.
Lawmakers in the House and Senate agreed to vote on a balanced budget amendment in the summer as part of a deal to raise the debt ceiling and form a joint committee to find $1.2 trillion in deficit savings.
Republicans have tried at least twice before to add a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, faltering both times. Shortly after Republicans gained control of Congress in 1995, a constitutional amendment that mandated a balanced budget in seven years passed the House but fell one vote shy of Senate passage. Senate Republicans tried again in 1997, with the same result.
While roughly a dozen Democrats supported the Republican amendments in 1995 and 1997, 21 Democrats voted in favor of Mr. Udall's amendment on Wednesday. No Democrat or Republican crossed party lines to support the other party's measure on Wednesday, although 37 Democrats joined Republicans and independents to defeat the amendment offered by Mr. Udall.
The Republican version would limit federal spending to 18 percent of gross domestic product and require support from three-fifths of members in of both houses of Congress to raise the debt limit.
The Democratic version would exempt Social Security from future cuts and a prohibit Congress from giving millionaires more in tax breaks than they pay in taxes.
Both measures would require the president to submit balanced budgets to Congress for consideration.
Democrats like Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the majority whip who voted against both amendments, said the measures would threaten Congress' ability to stabilize the economy and would spur unnecessary litigation when Congress passes its budgets.
"There comes a time and we have reached it, when we need to have the political will in a bipartisan fashion to deal with our country's problems, whether it's the tax cut, extending the government's life into the next fiscal year, or dealing with our long-term deficit," he said. "It takes political will, maybe even political courage. It doesn't take a constitutional amendment."
But Republicans like Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, complained that President Obama and Democrats were not serious about tackling the nation's fiscal problems.
"Republicans are doing our part," he said. " We need them to do theirs. The American people are asking us to act. Let's do it. If this president won't take America's fiscal problems seriously, Congress should do it for him."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); LITIGATION (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: MARK UDALL (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



627 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: A Start-Up Incubator That Floats

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: What if you created a floating, visa-free incubator 12 miles out to sea from Silicon Valley? 

 BODY:
Technology gurus have long lamented how hard it is for foreign talent to secure American visas and create start-ups here. As Congress spins its wheels with endless debate over immigration, an ambitious venture based in Sunnyvale, Calif., is trying to chart a more productive course aboard a 600-foot boat, or possibly a barge.
That's the idea behind Blueseed, which aims to create a visa-free, floating incubator for international entrepreneurs off the California coast near Silicon Valley. 
Blueseed's co-founders, Max Marty, 27, and Dario Mutabdzija, 31, envision a seaworthy, 1,000-passenger hothouse for entrepreneurs from around the world, moored 12 nautical miles offshore - just outside California's territorial waters - with enough appealing amenities to make it a "Googleplex of the Sea." Passengers could take a day trip by ferry to the mainland on temporary tourist or business visas, returning to sleep in cabins that would rent for $1,200 to $3,000 a month.
"Blueseed is a way to connect Silicon Valley with the amazing founders and entrepreneurs out around the world," Mr. Marty said. "Existing visa policies were designed for a different era. The nature of business has changed, and what's lacking now is an avenue for people to be able to come in and create great companies."
Peter Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal and prominent venture capitalist, signed on recently as an investor in Blueseed. The company is currently seeking additional investors to raise a total of $500,000 in seed capital.
"Tech innovation drives economic growth, and we need more of both," Mr. Thiel elaborated in a written statement for this blog. "Many innovative people have a really hard time getting visas, and Blueseed will help bring more innovation to California with a solution that is itself as innovative as it is clever."
Mr. Thiel, a staunch libertarian, made a splash in August by contributing $1.25 million to the Seasteading Institute, a Sunnyvale nonprofit founded by Patri Friedman (grandson of Milton Friedman, the economist) that explores the creation of autonomous ocean colonies. He declined through a spokesman to say how much he had invested in Blueseed.
Mr. Marty and Mr. Mutabdzija first met as directors of business and legal strategy at the Seasteading Institute. They estimate that their current project could end up costing $15 million, if they charter a vessel, to $40 million, if they buy one. They hope - perhaps optimistically - to have it afloat in 2013.
Past efforts to ease immigration restrictions for entrepreneurs have seemed less the stuff of science fiction. In February 2010, Senators John Kerry and Richard Lugar introduced the first version of the Start-Up Visa Act, which would create a path to citizenship for immigrant entrepreneurs who meet benchmarks for raising capital and creating jobs. Though the bill has since been reintroduced, it hasn't made any progress.
Champions of both Blueseed and the Start-Up Visa Act are quick to point out that immigrants were founders of more than half of Silicon Valley's start-ups between 1995 and 2005, according to Duke University research. They add that, without strivers from abroad like Sergey Brin and Vinod Khosla, companies like Google and Sun Microsystems would not be part of America's tech ecosystem. (Mr. Marty's parents are both Cuban immigrants and entrepreneurs; Mr. Mutabdzija was born in Sarajevo.)
For Blueseed's founders, the first hurdle will be convincing potential investors that their vision is not as far-fetched as it might seem. They believe it is a matter of cobbling together best practices from well-explored, less exotic territory - maritime engineering, international law - to create great work-live-play spaces for tech dreamers. Foreign entrepreneurs, they say, are hoping for the chance to marinate in Silicon Valley, and more than 60 of them have expressed interest in the project through an online survey.
"I and many others are suffering over the situation that we cannot go to America to be around these people," said Nico Schweinzer, a serial entrepreneur reached by Skype in Graz, Austria, where he created JobGuru, an employment site, and is building Oracly, a service that lets shoppers scan product bar codes with smartphones to receive short reviews. "For me, it's not so much about the investors, but more about being where you can exchange ideas and get skilled people for your projects.
"Blueseed is a fantastic idea," he added. "You could go there and be very close to the mecca of the tech scene."
What do you think?

        
Inside Our Plan to Open in Brooklyn
        
So You Want to Start a Business
        
A Start-Up Tries to Eliminate 'Food Deserts'
        
Starting a Teach for America for Entrepreneurs
        
Starting the 'Netflix of Flowers'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); FERRIES (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); JOB CREATION (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) entrepreneurs; immigration; start-up; Thiel, Peter A; Entrepreneurship; Immigration and Emigration; Small Business; Start-ups; Visas; Silicon Valley (Calif); Start

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (77%) Thiel, Peter A

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011



628 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: City Voters Approve of Mayor's Overall Job Performance

BYLINE: DAVID W. CHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Many New York voters do not like the way Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has performed on specific issues, like the Occupy Wall Street protests, but they still like his overall job performance. 

 BODY:
Most voters in New York City disapprove of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's handling of the Occupy Wall Street protests and continue to believe that he has lost focus in his third term, according to a survey released Wednesday morning by Quinnipiac University.
The survey also found that an overwhelming number of city voters -- including Republicans and people making more than $100,000 a year -- support the so-called living wage bill, a proposal opposed by Mr. Bloomberg, which would raise wages for workers in city-subsidized development.
Yet at a time when many politicians nationwide have fared poorly in polls, city voters still like the overall job Mr. Bloomberg is doing. 
While Mr. Bloomberg has had an uneven 2011, dragged down in polls by last winter's blizzard and Cathleen P. Black's brief stint as schools chancellor, he has ended the year on an upswing, with 49 percent of those polled saying that they approved of his job performance, and 42 percent saying they did not. Voters liked his policies, by a margin of 52 percent to 43 percent. And they held him in even higher regard personally; 64 percent said they liked the mayor, while 24 percent said they did not.
The poll queried 1,242 registered New York City voters between Dec. 7 and 12. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Many questions in the poll focused on the Occupy Wall Street protests. By a margin of 51 percent to 42 percent, voters disapproved of Mr. Bloomberg's handling of the two-month-long protests, in which he authorized the police to evict protesters out of Zuccotti Park. He fared least well among black and Hispanic voters.
Most voters said they generally agreed with the protesters' views, and, by a smaller margin, said they approved of the way the protests had been conducted. But they also approved, by a slim margin, of the Police Department's handling of the protests, suggesting that the city had found some balance in deciding to clear out the park.
The survey also measured voters' attitudes toward income inequality and government regulation. By ratios of greater than four-to-one, voters said that it was government's responsibility to insure that workers were paid a decent wage, and that they backed tougher regulation on financial institutions. They also said, by a 56 to 36 percent margin, that the so-called living wage proposal now being debated in the City Council would not drive jobs away from the city - contrary to what Mr. Bloomberg and business leaders have argued. 
In a statement, a coalition of business groups opposed to the legislation, called Putting New Yorkers to Work, suggested that the name of the bill was largely responsible for the voters' views. "The bottom line is this wage mandate would hurt the communities most in need of jobs and economic development. That's why the more City Council Members learn about this bill, the less they support it."
The survey also asked voters about their views on two high-profile administration officials: Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner, and Dennis M. Walcott, the schools chancellor.
Despite a spate of media attention over a ticket-fixing scandal and an illegal gun-smuggling scheme allegedly involving police officers, among other blemishes, 66 percent of voters approved of Mr. Kelly's performance, while only 24 percent disapproved -- marks which have been relatively unchanged all year.
Mr. Walcott, however, slipped a bit. Thirty-four percent of those polled disapproved of his performance -- the highest during his short tenure -- while 33 percent approved.

        
Poll Shows Mayor Slipping Somewhat
        
Bloomberg's Lead Narrows Slightly, Poll Shows
        
Today's Tip Sheet: The Final Push
        
Today's Tip Sheet: Thompson's Own Poll Finds a Closer Race
        
Bloomberg Rolling Over Thompson in New Survey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (93%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LIVING WAGE (89%); CITIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%) Michael Bloomberg; Michael R. Bloomberg; polls; Quinnipiac University; Polls and Public Opinion; Occupy Wall Street; New York City; City Hall

ORGANIZATION: Occupy Wall Street

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); CATHLEEN BLACK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



629 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2318 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Confusion Follows Claim That Corzine Knew of Funds Transfer | A Senate hearing into the collapse of MF Global was thrown into confusion on Tuesday after a main witness implied that Jon S. Corzine, its former chief executive, knew the firm had been misusing customer funds, an accusation that could not be substantiated.
Terrence A. Duffy, executive chairman of the CME Group, told lawmakers that MF Global had used $175 million in customer funds to lend from one arm of the firm to another - an assertion that, on its face, may not be illegal - and that Mr. Corzine had known about it.
Later, however, Mr. Duffy accused the firm of improperly transferring customer money, without specifying whether MF Global's chief executive had known of those transactions.
Mr. Duffy's words, at first, appeared to contradict Mr. Corzine's earlier testimony before Congress. On Tuesday, Mr. Corzine told the Senate panel that he had not been aware of missing customer money until the late evening of Oct. 30, shortly before the firm filed for bankruptcy. Mr. Duffy suggested that Mr. Corzine had been briefed on the transfers hours or days before.
DealBook 
JPMorgan Shares Fall as MF Global Trustee Suggests Inquiry of Bank | After a couple of ups and downs, shares in JPMorgan Chase were trading in positive territory by Tuesday afternoon. And then they took a quick and sharp tumble.
That was after Bloomberg News highlighted a line from a court filing by the trustee liquidating MF Global's brokerage unit that suggested that he might investigate the bank for its actions as the trading firm collapsed.
The trustee, James W. Giddens, wrote in the filing, made with the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan late on Monday, that he might investigate JPMorgan's role as one of MF Global's main banks. Mr. Giddens wrote that his office will look to see what potential obligations MF Global's brokerage unit owed to JPMorgan.
DealBook 
Senate Panel Hearing on MF Global | DealBook live blogged Tuesday's hearing, as Jon S. Corzine and two former top deputies at MF Global appeared before the Senate Agriculture Committee to answer questions about the collapse of the brokerage firm.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Merkel's Outspoken Other Half | Wolfgang Schaeuble, the German finance minister who is confined to a wheelchair, has been a crucial adviser to Angela Merkel, even if he sometimes challenges her in public, Reuters reports.
"The chancellor can count on my loyalty," Mr. Schaeuble told Reuters. "But that doesn't mean I'm going to keep quiet, that I'm going to be easy. I have the freedom to do what I think is right."
REUTERS
The Long Life of the Vampire Squid | In an homage to a Rolling Stone writer, Matt Taibbi, the Occupy Wall Street movement held a squid-themed march on Goldman Sachs's headquarters on Monday. The metaphor has already become well known among certain Wall Street critics.
DealBook 
JPMorgan TV Show Clobbered by 'Rudolph' Repeat | Will JPMorgan Chase pay for another televised award show for charities next year? After seeing the ratings for its "American Giving Awards," that is far from a sure thing, writes Brian Stelter on the Media Decoder blog. The show had an average of 1.5 million viewers on NBC on Saturday night, a subpar performance.
DealBook 
Bank Grinches | Commerzbank of Germany has cancelled Christmas parties for investment bankers and others, Bloomberg News report. Royal Bank of Scotland has also canceled its year-end events.
Bloomberg News
Ceilings Fit for a Master of the Universe | Airy office spaces, like a floor at 499 Park Avenue with 17-foot ceilings, are the latest fad in high-end commercial real estate, commanding rents of more than $100 a square foot, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Loeb Reiterates Opposition to a Yahoo Minority Investment | Third Point's chief, Daniel Loeb, forcefully reiterated his opposition to any plan by Yahoo to sell a minority stake in itself instead of pursuing an outright sale of the Internet company.
DealBook 
Coca-Cola Invests $980 Million in Saudi Beverage Business | Coca-Cola has agreed to invest $980 million for a stake of about 50 percent in the Saudi Arabian beverage company Aujan Industries, the companies announced on Wednesday.
DealBook 
The Obstacles in the Hostile Bid for Vulcan | While pressure for a deal may come from the market, only a friendly transaction is likely to work for Martin Marietta Materials, Steven M. Davidoff writes in his Deal Professor column.
DealBook 
Vulcan Is Seen as Able to Get Higher Bid | The $4.8 billion hostile offer that Martin Marietta Materials made for Vulcan Materials may not be as high as other potential bidders could offer, according to RBC Capital Markets, which estimates Vulcan could get $1 billion more, Bloomberg News writes.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Japanese Regulator Approves Steel Merger | The Japan Fair Trade Commission approved the $22.5 billion merger of Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Industries, as long as the companies make minor adjustments, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Tepco Says State Investment Is Possible | The president of the Tokyo Electric Power Company said he hasn't ruled out the possibility of a government investment, but would prefer to avoid one, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sinopec Bids for Natural Gas Company | Sinopec, along with the Chinese gas distributor ENN Energy Holdings, have made a $2 billion cash offer for China Gas Holdings, The Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Australia's APA Group Makes Offer for Energy Rival | The APA Group, which owns Australian gas pipelines, bid for the Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund, valuing it at $1.06 billion, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Once Bailed Out, Commerzbank Again Raises Doubts | Like many of the region's financial firms, Commerzbank is under pressure from regulators to increase its capital buffer. But analysts are worried it won't be able to come up with the funds.
DealBook 
Credit Agricole Is Said to Cut 2,350 Jobs | The job cuts at the French bank are expected to fall mostly in its investment banking division, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified union source.
REUTERS
Goldman Misses Out on Chinese I.P.O.'s | Even as the fees for underwriting Chinese stock offerings have ballooned, Goldman Sachs has managed just one I.P.O. in China in three years, and three since it got its Chinese license in 2004, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman Partner Departures Estimated at 37 | Goldman Sachs has lost at least 37 partners this year, and has added nine from outside the firm, with the bank on track for its worst year for profit since 2008, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Jefferies Announces Bonus Clawback Plan | The brokerage firm told employees that it will claw back cash bonuses for anyone who leaves the firm to work for a rival next year, Fox Business Network reports.
FOX BUSINESS NETWORK | BLOOMBERG NEWS
Citigroup to Sell Last of Its Stake in Primerica | The Primerica life insurance company had been one of the pillars used by Sanford I. Weill to build a global financial colossus.
DealBook 
Pandit Sells Some Citigroup Stock | Vikram S. Pandit, chief executive of Citigroup, reported that he sold 10,118 Citi shares at $28.02 to cover taxes on vested stock compensation, and now owns 195,017 shares, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Wall St.'s Odd Couple and Their Quest to Unlock Riches | Public pensions pay billions in fees to private equity. The question is whether it is worth it, Steven M. Davidoff writes in his Deal Professor column.
DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Returns $700 Million to Real Estate Investors | The move was part of the firm's effort to convince investors to vote to keep a struggling $4.7 billion real estate fund open until June 2013, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
THL Is Said to Lead Glaxo Bidding | The private equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners is the lead bidder for consumer health assets owned by GlaxoSmithKline, in an auction with Bain Capital and the Blackstone Group, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
K.K.R. Watches Sealy Tumble | K.K.R., which owns 46 percent of the mattress company Sealy, saw the stock fall 4.8 percent to $1.77 a share after the company said its chief executive was retiring, The New York Post reports.
NEW YORK POST
Spectrum Is Said to Make Health Care Investment | Spectrum Equity, the private equity firm, along with the venture capital firm Trident Capital, are expected to take a controlling stake in HealthMEDX, a healthcare software company, for $56 million, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people close to the matter.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Founder to Give $150 Million to Stony Brook University | James H. Simons, founder of the hedge fund Renaissance Technologies, and his wife plan to donate $150 million to Stony Brook University, the school where he once worked as a mathematics professor, according to The New York Times.
DealBook 
SAC's Cohen Weighs In on Insider Trading | Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital, called the rules that govern insider trading "very vague" according to a deposition the hedge fund titan gave in a long-running case, Reuters reports. Mr. Cohen's firm has been under a cloud of scrutiny amid a widespread crackdown on Wall Street insider trading.
DealBook 
Highbridge Lays Off Managers | Highbridge Capital Management, the hedge fund company owned by JPMorgan Chase, laid of three senior executives, including two portfolio managers, AR Magazine reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the firm.
AR MAGAZINE
D.E. Shaw Negotiating Stake in Chinese Investment Company | D.E. Shaw and Company, the hedge fund firm, is in talks to buy a 20 percent stake in TEDA International, a Chinese state-controlled investment company, for as much as $942 million, Bloomberg News reports, citing three unidentified people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Zynga Gets Low Rating Before I.P.O. | Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agee, put a $7 price target on shares of Zynga, which is expected to price between $8.50 to $10 a share this week, Forbes reports.
FORBES | NEW YORK POST
Rival to Zynga Stumbles | Nexon, the Japanese online games company that debuted on Wednesday after a $1.2 billion I.P.O., saw its shares close below its initial offering price, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Michael Kors I.P.O. Is Said to Be Oversubscribed | Orders for shares of Michael Kors Holdings exceed the amount being offered, and banks will stop taking orders on Wednesday, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Facebook Faces Young Skeptics | As it prepares for an initial offering, Facebook's growth in the United States has slowed, with some users contending that the social networking site makes them more, not less, alienated from their friends, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Jive Jumps 25 Percent | Jive Software closed at $15.05 on Tuesday, from its initial offering price of $12.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
A Silicon Valley Space Race | Paul G. Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft, plans to build a huge airplane that can launch a rocket to orbit, joining other technology tycoons who are investing in outer space, The New York Times reports.
"With government-funded spaceflight diminishing, there is a much expanded opportunity for privately funded efforts," Mr. Allen said.
NEW YORK TIMES
TaskRabbit Raises $17.8 Million | The start-up, which allows people to outsource tasks, raised the money from firms including Lightspeed Venture Partners, Allen & Company and the Tornante Company, and it hired Michael Eisner, the former Disney chief executive, as a strategic adviser, AllThingsD reports.
ALLTHINGSD
Google Buys Local Restaurant App Maker | Google has acquired Clever Sense, which makes a mobile app that recommends local eateries, in a deal whose terms were not disclosed, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Olympus to Stay Listed, For Now | The Japanese camera maker, plagued by scandal, is set to meet a deadline to avoid being delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange, but it's still at risk of being expelled in the coming months, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Ex-Bankers at WaMu Settle F.D.I.C. Suit | Former executives at Washington Mutual have reached a $64 million agreement to settle a civil lawsuit related to the subprime mortgage crisis.
DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Settles With Bond Insurer | Morgan Stanley agreed to drop claims against the bond insurer MBIA in exchange for a $1.1 billion payment, in a deal that has the investment bank taking a $1.8 billion charge to fourth quarter earnings, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
House Cleaning at Morgan Stanley | The firm's settlement with MBIA pleased investors and bolstered its capital, potentially improving its position for the coming year, Reuters BreakingViews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Fed Stays the Course | The Federal Reserve said it would not add to its efforts to stimulate the economy, but left open the possibility of taking additional steps next year that could include increasing the transparency of its process, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES | FEDERAL RESERVE STATEMENT
Banks Seek Release in Foreclosure Talks | As they negotiate a settlement over alleged foreclosure abuses, big banks are demanding that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau give up the right to sue them for certain mortgage practices, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); WRITERS (63%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (60%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CME GROUP INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CME (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



630 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2337 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Confusion Follows Claim That Corzine Knew of Funds Transfer | A Senate hearing into the collapse of MF Global was thrown into confusion on Tuesday after a main witness implied that Jon S. Corzine, its former chief executive, knew the firm had been misusing customer funds, an accusation that could not be substantiated.
Terrence A. Duffy, executive chairman of the CME Group, told lawmakers that MF Global had used $175 million in customer funds to lend from one arm of the firm to another -- an assertion that, on its face, may not be illegal -- and that Mr. Corzine had known about it.
Later, however, Mr. Duffy accused the firm of improperly transferring customer money, without specifying whether MF Global's chief executive had known of those transactions.
Mr. Duffy's words, at first, appeared to contradict Mr. Corzine's earlier testimony before Congress. On Tuesday, Mr. Corzine told the Senate panel he had not been aware of missing customer money until the late evening of Oct. 30, shortly before the firm filed for bankruptcy. Mr. Duffy suggested Mr. Corzine had been briefed on the transfers hours or days before. DealBook 
JPMorgan Shares Fall as MF Global Trustee Suggests Inquiry of Bank | After a couple of ups and downs, shares in JPMorgan Chase were trading in positive territory by Tuesday afternoon. And then they took a quick and sharp tumble.
That was after Bloomberg News highlighted a line from a court filing by the trustee liquidating MF Global's brokerage unit that suggested he might investigate the bank for its actions as the trading firm collapsed.
The trustee, James W. Giddens, wrote in the filing made with the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan late on Monday, that he might investigate JPMorgan's role as one of MF Global's main banks. Mr. Giddens wrote that his office would look to see what potential obligations MF Global's brokerage unit owed to JPMorgan. DealBook 
Senate Committee Hearing on MF Global | DealBook live blogged Tuesday's hearing, as Jon S. Corzine and two former top deputies at MF Global appeared before the Senate Agriculture Committee to answer questions about the collapse of the brokerage firm. DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Merkel's Outspoken Other Half | Wolfgang Schauble, the German finance minister who is confined to a wheelchair, has been a crucial adviser to Chancellor Angela Merkel, even if he sometimes challenges her in public, Reuters reports.
"The chancellor can count on my loyalty," Mr. Schauble told Reuters. "But that doesn't mean I'm going to keep quiet, that I'm going to be easy. I have the freedom to do what I think is right." REUTERS
The Long Life of the Vampire Squid | In an homage to a Rolling Stone writer, Matt Taibbi, the Occupy Wall Street movement held a squid-themed march to Goldman Sachs's headquarters on Monday. The metaphor has already become well known among Wall Street critics. DealBook 
JPMorgan TV Show Clobbered by 'Rudolph' Repeat | Will JPMorgan Chase pay for another televised award show for charities next year? After seeing the ratings for its "American Giving Awards," that is far from a sure thing, Brian Stelter writes on the Media Decoder blog. The show had an average of 1.5 million viewers on NBC on Saturday night, a subpar performance. DealBook 
Bank Grinches | Commerzbank of Germany has cancelled Christmas parties for investment bankers and others, Bloomberg News reports, and Royal Bank of Scotland has also canceled its year-end events. Bloomberg News
Ceilings Fit for a Master of the Universe | Airy office spaces, like a floor at 499 Park Avenue with 17-foot ceilings, are the latest fad in high-end commercial real estate, commanding rents of more than $100 a square foot, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Loeb Reiterates Opposition to a Yahoo Minority Investment | Third Point's chief, Daniel Loeb, forcefully reiterated his opposition to any plan by Yahoo to sell a minority stake in the company instead of pursuing an outright sale. DealBook 
Coca-Cola Invests $980 Million in Saudi Beverage Business | Coca-Cola has agreed to invest $980 million for a stake of about 50 percent in the Saudi Arabian beverage company Aujan Industries, the companies announced on Wednesday. DealBook 
The Obstacles in the Hostile Bid for Vulcan | While pressure for a deal may come from the market, only a friendly transaction for Vulcan Materials is likely to work for Martin Marietta Materials, Steven M. Davidoff writes in his Deal Professor column. DealBook 
Vulcan Is Seen as Able to Get Higher Bid | The $4.8 billion hostile offer that Martin Marietta Materials made for Vulcan Materials may not be as high as other potential bidders might be willing to pay, according to RBC Capital Markets, which estimates Vulcan could get $1 billion more, Bloomberg News writes. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Japanese Regulator Approves Steel Merger | The Japan Fair Trade Commission approved the $22.5 billion merger of Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Industries, as long as the companies agreed to make some adjustments, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Tokyo Electric Says State Investment Is Possible | The president of the Tokyo Electric Power Company said he had not ruled out the possibility of a government investment, but would prefer to avoid one, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sinopec Bids for Natural Gas Company | Sinopec and the Chinese gas distributor ENN Energy Holdings have made a $2 billion cash offer for China Gas Holdings, The Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
APA Group Makes Offer for Energy Rival | The APA Group, which owns Australian natural gas pipelines, bid for the Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund, valuing it at $1.06 billion, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Once Bailed Out, Commerzbank Again Raises Doubts | Like many of the region's financial firms, Commerzbank is under pressure from regulators to increase its capital reserves. But analysts are worried it will not be able to come up with the money. DealBook 
Credit Agricole Is Said to Cut 2,350 Jobs | The job cuts at the French bank Credit Agricole are expected to fall mostly in its investment banking division, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified union source. REUTERS
Goldman Misses Out on Chinese I.P.O.'s | Even as the fees for underwriting Chinese stock offerings have ballooned, Goldman Sachs has managed just one I.P.O. in China in three years, and three since it got its Chinese license in 2004, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman Partner Departures Estimated at Nearly 40 | Goldman Sachs has lost at least 37 partners this year, and has added nine from outside the firm, with the bank on track for its worst year for profit since 2008, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Jefferies Announces Bonus Clawback Plan | Jefferies & Company has told employees that it will claw back cash bonuses from anyone that leaves the firm to work for a rival next year, Fox Business Network reports. FOX BUSINESS NETWORK | BLOOMBERG NEWS
Citigroup to Sell Last of Its Stake in Primerica | The Primerica life insurance company had been one of the pillars used by Sanford I. Weill to build a global financial colossus. DealBook 
Pandit Sells Some Citigroup Stock | Vikram S. Pandit, chief executive of Citigroup, reported that he had sold 10,118 Citigroup shares at $28.02 to cover taxes on vested stock compensation, and now owned 195,017 shares, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Wall St.'s Odd Couple and Their Quest to Unlock Riches | Public pensions pay billions in fees to private equity. The question is whether it is worth it, Steven M. Davidoff writes in his Deal Professor column. DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Returns $700 Million to Real Estate Investors | The move was part of the firm's effort to convince investors to vote to keep a struggling $4.7 billion real estate fund open until June 2013, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
THL Is Said to Lead Glaxo Bidding | The private equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners is the lead bidder for consumer health assets owned by GlaxoSmithKline, in an auction with Bain Capital and the Blackstone Group, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
K.K.R. Watches Sealy Tumble | K.K.R., which owns 46 percent of the mattress company Sealy, saw the stock fall 4.8 percent, to $1.77 a share, after the company said its chief executive was retiring, The New York Post reports. NEW YORK POST
Spectrum Is Said to Make Health Care Investment | Spectrum Equity, a private equity firm, and the venture capital firm Trident Capital, are expected to take a controlling stake in HealthMEDX, a health care software company, for $56 million, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people close to the matter. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Founder to Give $150 Million to Stony Brook University | James H. Simons, founder of the hedge fund Renaissance Technologies, and his wife plan to donate $150 million to Stony Brook University, the school where he once worked as a mathematics professor, according to The New York Times. DealBook 
SAC's Cohen Weighs In on Insider Trading | Steven A. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital Advisors, called the rules that govern insider trading "very vague," according to a deposition he gave in a long-running case, Reuters reports. Mr. Cohen's firm has been under a cloud during a widespread crackdown on Wall Street insider trading. DealBook 
Highbridge Lays Off Managers | Highbridge Capital Management, the hedge fund company owned by JPMorgan Chase, laid off three senior executives, including two portfolio managers, AR Magazine reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the firm. AR MAGAZINE
D.E. Shaw Negotiating Stake in Chinese Investment Company | D.E. Shaw & Company, the hedge fund firm, is in talks to buy a 20 percent stake in TEDA International, a Chinese state-controlled investment company, for as much as $942 million, Bloomberg News reports, citing three unidentified people familiar with the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Zynga Gets Low Rating Before I.P.O. | Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agee, put a $7 price target on shares of Zynga, which is expected to price at $8.50 to $10 a share this week, Forbes reports. FORBES | NEW YORK POST
Rival to Zynga Stumbles | The shares of Nexon, a Japanese online game company that began trading on Wednesday after a $1.2 billion I.P.O., closed below the initial offering price, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Michael Kors I.P.O. Is Said to Be Oversubscribed | Orders for shares of Michael Kors Holdings exceed the amount being offered, and banks were to stop taking orders on Wednesday, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Facebook Faces Young Skeptics | As it prepares for an initial offering, Facebook's growth in the United States has slowed, with some users contending that the social networking site makes them more, not less, alienated from their friends, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Jive Jumps 25 Percent | Jive Software closed at $15.05 a share on Tuesday, up from its initial offering price of $12. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
A Silicon Valley Space Race | Paul G. Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft, plans to build a huge airplane that can launch a rocket into orbit, joining other technology tycoons who are investing in outer space, The New York Times reports.
"With government-funded spaceflight diminishing, there is a much expanded opportunity for privately funded efforts," Mr. Allen said. NEW YORK TIMES
TaskRabbit Raises $17.8 Million | The start-up TaskRabbit, which allows people to outsource tasks, raised money from firms including Lightspeed Venture Partners, Allen & Company and the Tornante Company, and it hired Michael Eisner, a former Disney chief executive, as a strategic adviser, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD
Google Buys Local Restaurant App Maker | Google has acquired Clever Sense, which makes a mobile app that recommends restaurants, in a deal whose terms were not disclosed, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Olympus to Stay Listed, For Now | Olympus of Japan, plagued by scandal, is set to meet a deadline to avoid being delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange, but it is still at risk of being expelled in the coming months, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Former Washington Mutual Executives Settle F.D.I.C. Suit | Former executives at Washington Mutual have reached a $64 million agreement to settle a civil lawsuit related to the subprime mortgage crisis. DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Settles With Bond Insurer | Morgan Stanley agreed to drop claims against the bond insurer MBIA in exchange for a $1.1 billion payment, in a deal in which Morgan Stanley will post a $1.8 billion charge to fourth-quarter earnings, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
House Cleaning at Morgan Stanley | Morgan Stanley's settlement with MBIA pleased investors and bolstered its capital base, potentially improving its position for the coming year, Reuters BreakingViews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Fed Stays the Course | The Federal Reserve said it would not add to its efforts to stimulate the economy, but left open the possibility of taking additional steps next year that could include increasing the transparency of its process, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES | FEDERAL RESERVE STATEMENT
Banks Seek Release in Foreclosure Talks | As they negotiate a settlement over alleged foreclosure abuses, big banks are demanding that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau give up the right to sue them for certain mortgage practices, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); WRITERS (63%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (60%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CME GROUP INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CME (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



631 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: State of the Union Date Is Set

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama will deliver the State of the Union address on Jan. 24, an appearance that inevitably will set the tone and sound the theme of economic renewal for his re-election campaign. 

 BODY:
 President Obama will deliver the State of the Union address on Jan. 24 before a joint session of Congress, an appearance that inevitably will set the tone and sound the theme of economic renewal for his re-election campaign. 
In a letter on Wednesday morning formally inviting Mr. Obama to make the traditional address, House SpeakerJohn A. Boehner gave a nod to the politics of the moment even as he suggested putting them aside.
 The White House and Congress must "look ahead for new opportunities to put solutions before politics," Mr. Boehner wrote. "In the coming year, Republicans will continue our efforts to create an environment for economic growth and job creation, and we welcome an opportunity to hear your new ideas for working with the Congress."
 The White House confirmed the date for the address, which stems from a requirement in the Constitution that presidents periodically address the Congress on the state of the nation. Typically it would be enough to hear from either the White House or the House of the scheduling of a presidential address, and assume the date is fine with both sides. That assumption was upended late in August, when the White House announced Mr. Obama wanted to address Congress to unveil a job-creation plan, but Mr. Boehner objected to the date and demanded another - a flap that predicted the jobs plan's doom.
 Mr. Obama will speak as the nation's attention has turned from the Republicans in Congress, who last January were resurgent after their midterm election victories, to the Republicans seeking their party's presidential nomination to unseat Mr. Obama. By Jan. 24, the results will be in from the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire and South Carolina primaries, and the focus will be on the first big-state primary, in Florida, a week later.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



632 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Romney Warns of Nominating 'Zany' Gingrich

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY AND ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney steps up his attacks on New Gingrich in an interview with The Times. 

 BODY:
2:31 p.m. | Updated Mitt Romney is sharpening his warning to Republicans about the consequences of nominating Newt Gingrich, declaring in an interview on Wednesday: "Zany is not what we need in a president."
"Zany is great in a campaign. It's great on talk radio. It's great in print, it makes for fun reading," Mr. Romney told The New York Times. "But in terms of a president, we need a leader, and a leader needs to be someone who can bring Americans together."
With 20 days before the voting begins at the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Romney is intensifying his forceful attack on the credibility of Mr. Gingrich, who has emerged as his leading rival in the Republican nominating fight. He has shed his year-long reluctance against doing interviews, hoping to change the narrative surrounding his candidacy before the holidays.
As his campaign prepares an even more aggressive attempt to slow Mr. Gingrich's rise, Mr. Romney smiled as he portrayed the former House Speaker as ill-suited in belief and temperament to lead the nation. He offered faint praise for Mr. Gingrich, conceding that he might have a satisfying side to voters, but was not prepared for the job.
"He's a great historian," Mr. Romney said. "If we need a historian leading the country, I'm sure people would find that attractive. I actually think you need someone who actually understands the economy leading the country."
Shortly before lunchtime on Wednesday, Mr. Romney took a break from a whirlwind day of fund-raising in Manhattan for the interview with The Times. His tone was upbeat and suggested there was no air of panic inside his campaign, saying that his second quest for the Republican presidential nomination had made him wiser, calmer and less reliant on victories in early voting states.
"I hope to be able to win in the early states," Mr. Romney said. "I'd like to win Iowa, I'd like to win New Hampshire.
"But if a candidate didn't win in either one, let's say one of the people in this contest - Rick Santorum, you know - didn't win either one, do you write him off? No, you say, you know, in this processes, people have jumped up in the polls, gotten support, you recognize people are not out until they've actually closed the doors and turned off the lights."
 As he sat in a suite of the Regency Hotel on Park Avenue, Mr. Romney said he was confident that his strategy of holding back throughout the year was a wise one. He said that the distinctions on Mr. Gingrich seemed to be working.
 "People are taking a closer look at Speaker Gingrich," Mr. Romney said. "And like other people who bumped up in the polls in this last year, as they take a closer look, some are happy with what they see and some would like to see something else and recognize that he may not be exactly what they wanted." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); INTERVIEWS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (72%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; New York Times; Republican Party; Iowa; New Hampshire; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: New York Times; Republican Party

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (78%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Iowa; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



633 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Criticizes Judge for Releasing Officer's Accused Killer

BYLINE: JOSEPH GOLDSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: The mayor suggested that a judge failed to use common sense in freeing a man who is now charged with killing Officer Peter J. Figoski in Brooklyn. 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on Wednesday criticized the Brooklyn Criminal Court judge who allowed the man accused this week of killing a police officer to be released from custody without bail in an earlier drug case.
Speaking at a news conference on Wednesday, the mayor said the reason the ex-convict, Lamont Pride, was free from jail in recent weeks is "that a judge here in New York not only didn't put him behind bars, didn't even think it was appropriate for bail."
In early November, Mr. Pride was arrested near Coney Island on charges of possessing crack cocaine and endangering the welfare of a child. At a hearing on Nov. 4, the judge, Evelyn Laporte of Brooklyn Criminal Court, released him without bail, even though she was informed of an active warrant for his arrest for a shooting in North Carolina, according to a transcript. A prosecutor had requested $2,500 bail, according to the transcript. 
There are still questions about how the warrant should have been handled; Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has said that the police had looked into the warrant at the time, but had been told that the warrant could be executed only within North Carolina. 
But in his remarks on Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg said that the judge "could have picked up the phone" and called the authorities in North Carolina to inquire about the warrant. 
"If you're talking about somebody who the rap sheet in front of you shows is potentially a dangerous person, has a gun, has a criminal history, common sense says don't let him out until you make one phone call," Mr. Bloomberg said. "It's not a lot of work to do to protect the public. It was not done, plain and simple."
Mr. Pride, 27, was ordered held without bail Tuesday in the death of the officer, Peter J. Figoski, 47. He is charged with first- and second-degree murder, aggravated murder of a police officer, and criminal possession of a weapon. 
A spokesman for the Office of Court Administration, David Bookstaver, said that Judge Laporte could not comment because Mr. Pride's case was ongoing.
"And it would be inappropriate to get into a back-and-forth with the mayor or the police commissioner or anybody else," Mr. Bookstaver added. "Judges have discretion when setting bail."

        
In Latest Gun Inquiry, City Finds Willing Sellers Online
        
5 in Custody in Robbery That Led to Killing of Officer
        
An Officer Falls
        
In Doling Out Economic Incentives, Bloomberg Looks Outside Manhattan
        
Even in Jerusalem, Thoughts Stray to Zuccotti Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARREST WARRANTS (91%); HOMICIDE (91%); BAIL (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (79%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COCAINE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) arrest warrant; Lamont Pride; Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Peter J. Figoski; Bloomberg, Michael R; Figoski, Peter J; Pride, Lamont; Attacks on Police; Crime and Criminals; Police; Police Department (NYC); Brooklyn (NYC); Breaking News; Brooklyn; City Hall; Courts and Law; Crime & Public Safety

ORGANIZATION: Police Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Figoski, Peter J; Pride, Lamont

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (50%) Brooklyn (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011



634 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: National Review Makes Its Case Against Gingrich

BYLINE: SARAH MASLIN NIR


HIGHLIGHT: In a stinging editorial, the conservative journal says Newt Gingrich "should be an adviser to the Republican Party, but not again its head." 

 BODY:
3:06 p.m. | Updated National Review, a leading conservative journal, issued a stinging critique of Newt Gingrich on Wednesday, saying his character flaws make him unfit to be president and asking Republicans to "reject a hasty marriage" to the front-running candidate.
"Gingrich has always said he wants to transform the country. He appears unable to transform, or even govern, himself," the editorial says of Mr. Gingrich, who served as speaker of the House from 1995 to 1999. "He should be an adviser to the Republican Party, but not again its head."
The nearly 1,200-word editorial in the current issue comes as Mr. Gingrich has moved to the top of most polls of the Republican field after a string of impressive debate performances and after other conservative candidates, like Herman Cain and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, have either pulled out of the race or lost their luster among the right.
The editorial praises Mr. Gingrich's unexpected comeback from afterthought to front-runner: "Just a few months ago his campaign seemed dead after a series of gaffes and resignations. That Gingrich now tops the polls is a tribute to his perseverance, and to Republicans' admiration for his intellectual fecundity."
But nominating Mr. Gingrich, the editorial warns, could weaken the party's chances of putting its candidate in the White House, squandering what the writers say is a time of "uncharacteristic" unity, when conservatives are in "consensus about most of the pressing issues of the day." 
"We fear that to nominate former Speaker Newt Gingrich, the front-runner in the polls, would be to blow this opportunity."
It continues: "His character flaws - his impulsiveness, his grandiosity, his weakness for half-baked (and not especially conservative) ideas - made him a poor Speaker of the House. Again and again he combined incendiary rhetoric with irresolute action, bringing Republicans all the political costs of a hardline position without actually taking one. Again and again he put his own interests above those of the causes he championed in public."
It refers to Mr. Gingrich's personal life ("very few people with a personal history like his - two divorces, two marriages to former mistresses - have ever tried running for president") and says that he was, during his tenure as speaker, "one of the most unpopular figures in public life."
The editorial latches on to what it sees as Mr. Gingrich's unchanged behavior, the same behavior that led his party to a devastating midterm election loss, and to his following resignation in 1998 amid ethics questions, despite assurances from his aides and advisers that Mr. Gingrich has "conquered his dark side," it says. "There is reason to doubt that he has changed," it says, citing a series of out of context quotations from Mr. Gingrich where he seems to flip-flop on statements or appear egotistical.
"Enough," the editorial says.
Mr. Gingrich is not the only candidate skewered. Of Gov. Rick Perry, the editorial says, "conservatism should not choose a standard-bearer who would have to spend much of his time untying his own tongue." It also cites Representative Michele Bachmann's "casual repetition of false anti-vaccine rumors" and Representative Ron Paul's "re-dabbling in vile conspiracy theories about September 11" as reasons they are unsuitable candidates. 
It concludes: "We will render further judgments in the weeks to come as the candidates continue to make their cases and are, just perhaps, joined by new candidates. At the moment we think it important to urge Republicans to have the good sense to reject a hasty marriage to Gingrich, which would risk dissolving in acrimony."
The article -- and reaction to it -- indicated the predicament of conservatives in the Republican primaries: with the economy lagging, they see a great opportunity to beat President Obama, but they also see major faults in the leading nominees.
Brent Bozell, the nephew of National Review's founder, William F. Buckley Jr. and a longtime conservative activist, saw the article as an endorsement of Mitt Romney and Jon M. Huntsman Jr. -- and took to Twitter and Facebook to decry what he saw as the magazine's support for them.
"The @nrocorner endorsement of Romney/Huntsman proves that this is no longer the magazine of William F. Buckley," he wrote on Twitter. "My uncle would be appalled." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ETHICS (74%) Bachmann, Michele M; Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; National Review; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: National Review; Republican Party

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); RICK PERRY (88%); MICHELE BACHMANN (73%); HERMAN CAIN (57%) Bachmann, Michele M; Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



635 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: What Iraqis Think of the American Withdrawal: Anbar Province

BYLINE: STEPHEN FARRELL and BAGHDAD BUREAU


HIGHLIGHT: Following a look at how the war has impacted those living in Baghdad, we now turn to the Anbar Province. 

 BODY:
1. Will Iraq be better or worse off after American troops leave?
2. What did the Americans achieve in Iraq?
3. What have they personally lost or gained since the 2003 invasion? 
Some answered only one or two questions. Although the respondents varied from area to area and across social and religions divides, some clear patterns emerged.
RAMADI, the provincial capital
Mohamed Ali Maki
Government employee, 47
1. The Americans didn't achieve anything except overthrowing Saddam, whose regime was one of the worst in the world, and dictatorial. They brought about the culture of democracy where now a single Iraqi is able to express his opinion on television without fear. But other aspects got worse, especially the security situation.
2. I don't think the situation will get better after the U.S. withdrawal. On the contrary, Iraq will be easy prey for any country which covets it, especially Iran, Turkey and even Saudi Arabia, which will try to make Iraq an area of conflict with Iran.
3. We have lost a lot because of the American presence in Iraq. We have lost security and our sons who are still in prison with an unknown future, while the only benefit was that they got rid of Saddam.
Mohammed Dhari Hussein
Legal clerk, 39
1. The Americans didn't achieve anything for Iraqis, but they won new allies in the area, specifically in Iraq, which was considered the father of their enemies. To be fair, the U.S. did a good thing for Iraqis by toppling Saddam, but on the other hand many things are worse now.
2. The situation will decline after the U.S. withdrawal because Iraq is not prepared to establish a strong democratic country, with the existence of a government that is a puppet to Iran and other countries.
3. Basically we have lost security, but I got better salaries and bought a new car that I was dreaming about.
Bushra Ahmed Hussein
Private sector worker, 29
1. Yes, America had achieved many good things for us: we were liberated from the dictator's regime, and women got better posts in the government.
2. I think the situation will be very bad after the U.S. withdrawal, especially as we have such a weak, unqualified government and regional intervention.
3. I lost brothers and many relatives because of American bombs. I benefited by having a good job and a salary with which I can get whatever I need.
FALLUJA
Emad Kamil Jassim
Lawyer, 35
1. The withdrawal during such an unstable period of time and the lack of confidence in leaders of the political process means Iraq will enter a political crisis which may collapse the political system in Iraq later on.
2. The biggest achievement of the U.S. was the toppling of Saddam, while the failures of the U.S. are many, such as a establishing a fragile political system, a confusing economic situation, millions of displaced people and detainees and countless other issues.
3. The absence of freedom of expression, concern for our future and living under an future are the biggest losses, and I have had no benefits from them.
Hassan al-Mohammadi
Unemployed, 42
1. I think the U.S. has committed a big mistake since it invaded Iraq in 2003 by dismantling government institutions entirely, so I don't see any resolution for Iraq's troubles even if the U.S. leaves. Also there is confusion in the political process, which was established under sectarian quotas under the supervision of America.
2. America didn't achieve anything for the people, but it achieved a lot for the politicians of all varieties, who sit on the thrones that they dreamed of.
3. I lost two of my brothers when the American Air Force bombed their house during the second battle of Falluja, as well as my friends and relatives, who were also victims of Americans.
Nisreen Qais Ali
Government employee, 29
1. I think Iraq will enter a critical phase after the U.S. withdrawal because of the presence of a second invasion, by Iran. There is currently clear negative intervention and influence in Iraq.
2. The destruction of all aspects of infrastructure, political conflicts and explosions are what America left behind.
3. Iraqis have rights and demands and want the government to fulfill them. I do not think any of these demands will be achieved if Americans remain in Iraq because they only look out for their own interests.

        
A Withdrawal Ceremony in Iraq, Observed by Few Iraqis
        
Leaving the Sunni Awakening in Limbo
        
What Iraqis Think of the American Withdrawal: Baghdad
        
On the Streets of Baghdad, an Invisible American Withdrawal
        
As Soldiers Leave Iraq, Bomb-Sniffing Dogs Stay

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (88%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); RELIGION (57%) Iraq Withdrawal; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); TURKEY (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



636 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Osawatomie and Opportunity

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: A critique of the president's speech, revisited. 

 BODY:
Jonathan Chait had an interesting response to the criticisms that both David Frum and I lodged against the President's Osawatomie speech. We both suggested that the president offered a plausible description of the middle class's recent woes, coupled with a weak and potentially counterproductive prescription for how to actually address them. To this, Chait basically conceded the relative thinness of the president's opportunity agenda, and then went on to argue that it doesn't really matter because the Republicans are worse:
So where does this leave the moderate-conservative critique of Obama? Obama may not be making a frontal assault on rising inequality, but he is doing about it. He proposes slightly more progressive taxes, and he wants to provide universal health insurance - not an insignificant part of the basic protection the government can offer its citizens against the hazards of the market ... Meanwhile, the Republican program is a dramatic acceleration of those trends. The party is committed to wiping out taxes on investment income and turning the tax code into a vast engine of upward redistribution. It is likewise committed to undoing universal health insurance coverage. The Republicans have also voted almost unanimously for a budget that absolutely slashes Pell Grants, Head Start, Medicaid, and other programs that provide a bit of relief to the unfortunate.
So, yes, Obama's program is a pretty meager response to runaway inequality when measured against nothing else. But to miss the contrast between Obama's program and the existing alternative that the American people could choose in 2012 is an act of blindness. The obvious point of the speech is that, , an agenda of locking in the Bush tax cuts, imposing the budget cuts this would require, deregulating Wall Street, and repealing health care reform is an act of madness.
Here are three points in defense of what Chait calls the "moderate-conservative" critique of the president. (I don't actually think of myself as a "moderate," but the world is what it is ...)
1) It starts with the definition of the problem. One can agree with the president that the economy hasn't been delivering for middle class and downscale America and still think that the liberal fixation on inequality and inequality alone is a big mistake - because the problem is less the growing wealth at the top than the stagnating incomes in the middle, and less the gap between the rich and the rest than the weakening of social mobility for the poor and working class. All of these issues are clearly entangled in some way (the same economy that gave us a richer top 1 percent as given us wage stagnation in the middle, after all), but not necessarily in a way that makes attacking inequality the best way to tackle the deeper problems. As Ramesh Ponnuru put it in his column this week, it's possible to imagine a "a return to robust economic growth and rising middle-income wages [that] doesn't require reversing a decades-long trend toward higher inequality." And by the same token, it's possible to imagine policies that reverse the trend toward inequality - or reverse it further, as the Great Recession has done some of that work for Chait - without leading to either robust wage growth or greater mobility. (For instance, slowing health care cost growth and improving public school performance would do more for the working-age poor and middle class than raising taxes on the rich to keep Medicare as it is, even though the latter might technically narrow the gap between the 1 percent and the rest.) Which brings us to point 2 ...
2) If you're concerned about broadly shared prosperity rather than just inequality per se, it doesn't just matter whether the government taxes and spends but whether the spending delivers real returns for working Americans, who after all pay taxes as well as benefiting from them. (Remember that "locking in the Bush tax cuts" locks in lower rates for the middle class as well as for the rich, and the long-term defense of the welfare state's existing programs will inevitably require unprecedented tax increases in middle-income earners.) Head Start, for instance, doesn't "provide a bit of relief to the unfortunate" because by almost every measure it doesn't work. Education spending in general has a similar problem: One can find particular examples where more funds leads to better outcomes, but there's no clear link between the input of tax dollars and the educational outputs that the country needs, and there's good reason to think that spending increases and subsidies have contributed to cost inflation in higher education and delayed needed reforms across the board. And then there are the big-ticket items, Social Security and (especially) Medicare, which increasingly contribute to exactly the problem Chait is focused on: By redistributing ever-larger amounts from the working-age population to (often affluent) retirees, they're making our welfare state not only more expensive but also less redistributive than it used to be. This is why a serious liberalism, no less than a serious conservatism, depends on finding a way to restrain the entitlement system's growth - because otherwise it will crowd out every other kind of public good.
3) Finally, I wholeheartedly agree with Chait that given recent socioeconomics trends, Republican proposals to make the tax code more regressive and to repeal Obamacare without replacing it with any kind of insurance are foolish, counterproductive, or worse. (I guess this is where that "moderation" comes in.) But I would note that the most likely Republican nominee in 2012 - Mitt Romney, even now - has deliberately avoided embracing regressive tax plans and talked insistently (if a bit robotically) about focusing on the middle class. And I would also note that Paul Ryan, the intellectual leader of the Congressional Republicans, has consistentlychampioned the most plausible right-of-center replacement for Obamacare, and has just joined with Democratic Senator Ron Wyden to co-sponsor a Medicare reform that addresses some of the more legitimate liberal concerns about the House Republican budget's impact on lower-income beneficiaries. Chait considers Ryan a Randian fanatic in wonk's clothing, so I'm sure he has a theory about the House Budget chairman's secret plutocratic motives, and he's recently argued that Romney's focus on the middle class will doom him in the primaries. If he's right about Romney, and if the Republicans nominate a candidate who runs on a supply-side fantasy and not much else, then - well, then Obama will probably be re-elected, and the Republican Party will have some soul-searching to do. But even if that happens, the president's agenda will still merit the critique I've just leveled. The folly of the opposition party is not an excuse for bad policymaking.
--

        
The President's Osawatomie Speech
        
Romney the Inexorable
        
The Rick Perry Experiment
        
Liberals and the Deficit Deal
        
Health Care: Three Scenarios

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); BUDGETS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); MEDICAID (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); BUDGET CUTS (71%) 2012; conservatism; Domestic Policy; entitlements; Health Care; liberalism; the economy; the middle class

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



637 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Lines Drawn on Antipiracy Bills

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Type ''download movies for free'' into Google, and up pops links to sites like the Pirate Bay, directing users to free copies of just about any entertainment -- the latest ''Twilight'' installment, this week's episode of ''Whitney,'' the complete recordings of the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
For years, pirated movies, television shows and music have been on the Internet. And for just as long, Hollywood and the entertainment business have been trying and failing to stop it.
But with more and faster broadband networks as well as powerful and speedy computers, the playing of illegally copied music and movies is booming as are sales of counterfeit goods from auto parts to pharmaceuticals. 
Because most pirate sites are abroad, beyond the reach of United States law enforcement, companies have been left with a Whac-a-Mole approach to shutting them down.
Now, however, two bills, broadly supported on both sides of the political aisle, aim to cut off the oxygen for foreign pirate sites by taking aim at American search engines like Google and Yahoo, payment processors like PayPal and ad servers that allow the pirates to function.
Naturally the howls of protest have been loud and lavishly financed, not only from Silicon Valley companies but also from public-interest groups, free-speech advocates and even venture capital investors. They argue -- in TV and newspaper ads -- that the bills are so broad and heavy-handed that they threaten to close Web sites and broadband service providers and stifle free speech, while setting a bad example of American censorship.
Google itself has hired at least 15 lobbying firms to fight the bills; Mozilla has included on its Firefox browser home page a link to a petition with the warning, ''Congress is trying to censor the Internet.'' A House committee plans to take up one of the bills, the Stop Online Piracy Act, on Thursday
On the other side, some of the biggest business lobbies like the Motion Picture Association of America and the United States Chamber of Commerceare supporting the bills. Both sides, in fact, plan to spend millions of dollars for advertisements aimed at swaying consumer sentiment.
Even newly proposed changes that the House panel will consider fail to address all the legislation's ills, opponents say. People involved in the drafting of the latest version, however, say the bill now specifically singles out only ''foreign rogue Web sites.''
''Our mistake was allowing this romantic word -- piracy -- to take hold,'' Tom Rothman, the co-chief executive of Fox Filmed Entertainment, said in an interview last week in Washington.
''It's really robbery -- it's theft -- and that theft is being combined with consumer fraud,'' he said. ''Consumers are purchasing these goods, they're sending their credit card information to these anonymous offshore companies, and they're receiving defective goods.''
Those goods include not just movies shot surreptitiously in a theater with a jiggly hand-held video camera, the companies argue, but dangerously flawed pharmaceuticals, faulty brake pads and defective smoke alarms, to name a few categories of illegally copied goods.
Each bill has attracted dozens of co-sponsors and broad support. The Senate bill, called the Protect IP Act, was overwhelmingly approved by the Judiciary Committee; a revised House bill, intended to address some initial criticisms, is scheduled to be marked up and voted on in committee before Congress adjourns for the holidays.
Many in the Internet world, however, see ominous aspects even in the revision. ''There are some provisions that have improved,'' said Markham Erickson, executive director of NetCoalition, a group of technology companies that includes Facebook, LinkedIn and eBay.
''Unfortunately,'' Mr. Erickson said, ''the amendment also creates new problems in other places and fails to correct some of the original concerns we have raised since the start of the debate.'' Among them, he said, the amendment allows anyone to seek court action to restrain a Web site's activities, even those of sites based in the United States.
Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is the primary sponsor of the bill and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which is working on the legislation, said the immediate rejection of the amendment by technology companies showed that they were simply protecting their financial interests -- and sacrificing intellectual property rights in the process.
''That's because they've made large profits by promoting rogue sites to U.S. consumers,'' Mr. Smith said in a statement.
Opponents say that many of the things that the legislation aims to prevent are already covered by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998. Under that law, Internet sites are required to take down links to specific pirated material when asked to do so by a copyright holder. ''We've done that more than five million times,'' Katherine Oyama, a Google policy counsel, told the House committee recently.
Ms. Oyama added that Google also ejected companies from its advertising system when notified of illegal activities. Yet, as Mr. Smith and others have pointed out repeatedly, Google agreed in August to a $500 million settlement with federal and state agencies for failing to reject advertising business from pirates -- specifically, online Canadian pharmacies that used Google's AdWords program to place targeted ads promoting illegally imported prescription drugs to United States consumers.
Google officials note that it acknowledged the conduct, accepted responsibility and paid a large fine -- but Google's Web site was not shut down. Opponents of the current bills argue that under the new proposals, Google could have been shut down.
That sort of draconian measure is not where the bills are aimed, said Steve Tepp, chief intellectual property counsel for the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''The targets are the rogue sites, the real bad actors,'' he said, which by selling counterfeit material endanger the jobs of ordinary workers at mainstream businesses.
The jobs issue has been seized on by the bill's supporters and has created some strange alliances: supporting the bills are both the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Chamber of Commerce, which rarely take the same side on a business issue. On the other side, both the American Civil Liberties Union and the Tea Party Patriots oppose the legislation.
A third alternative emerged last week, as Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican, and Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who has been blocking the Senate bill from getting to the floor, introduced a new proposal that would make the United States International Trade Commission the arbiter for Internet disputes over copyrighted material.
''Butchering the Internet,'' Mr. Issa said, ''is not a way forward for America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: House and Senate bills are taking aim at sites like the Pirate Bay that offer unauthorized entertainment downloads. (B1)
In November 2010, United States customs officials shut down a number of Web sites accused of offering counterfeit goods. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT)
Tom Rothman, left, of Fox Filmed Entertainment, said piracy defrauded consumers. Right, Representative Lamar Smith. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN AGOSTINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE PIRACY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FILM (89%); LOBBYING (88%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); COUNTERFEITING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BROADBAND (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MUSIC (71%); PRINT ADVERTISING (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PETITIONS (66%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); INTERNET BROWSERS (63%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%); PAYPAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US IMMIGRATION & CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (55%)

PERSON: LAMAR SMITH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



638 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: With Its Latest Network TV Agreements, the N.F.L. Outdoes Itself

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
With its consistently high ratings and its solid grip on the American sports psyche, the N.F.L. knows that broadcast and cable networks will spend ever-rising sums to carry its games.
So on Wednesday, in a ritual as common as Tim Tebow's end-of-game comebacks, the league announced a flurry of new deals that will require its three Sunday broadcasters to pay substantially more than they have ever paid.
Over nine years, starting in 2014, CBS, Fox and NBC will together pay an average of about $3 billion a year, more than 50 percent higher than their current deals. 
Fox's average rights fee will jump to about $1.1 billion a year from $725 million in 2013. CBS's payments will increase to nearly $1 billion from $625 million, and NBC's fees will go to $950 million from $612 million. ESPN's recent agreement can be added to that. Three months ago it approved a 73 percent increase to $1.9 billion annually for eight years.
Taken together, the four networks, in addition to DirecTV, which pays $1 billion a year for its Sunday Ticket satellite package, will pay the N.F.L. more annually than any sports league has ever been paid. Of course, the previous record-holder was the N.F.L.
''In these difficult economic times, you want to create stability and planning for our business,'' said Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots and chairman of the league's broadcast committee. ''When we made our C.B.A. deal with the players,'' he said about the collective bargaining agreement reached last summer, ''we promised if they worked with us, they would be the big beneficiary -- and they're getting 55 percent of the TV money.''
For each network, the N.F.L. represents nearly irreplaceable programming -- especially for Comcast-owned NBC, whose only bright spot in prime time is ''Sunday Night Football,'' this season's No. 2 program. NBC's next-highest-rated program is ''Law & Order: SVU,'' which is in 39th place.
First, NBC swapped one of its wild-card playoff games, which the league will try to sell to ESPN for as much as $100 million each, for a divisional game that will probably earn a higher rating and sell at a higher rate to advertisers. The divisional game will shift from CBS and Fox in alternate years.
Second, it will have three Super Bowls, instead of the two in the current eight-year contract. Third, it will add a Thursday night Thanksgiving game that had been carried on the NFL Network. It also received rights that will lead to the creation of an archival program and a Sunday morning pregame show on Versus, which will soon be renamed the NBC Sports Network.
Getting a jump-start on the new deal, NBC will carry next year's Thanksgiving game.
A recent meeting between Kraft and Steve Burke, the chief executive of NBC Universal, began the process of negotiating the enhancements NBC needed to justify a far higher payment.
Burke said that Kraft told him: '' 'Think of ways to add value to the existing package.' So we did it until we got to a place where we were basically at break-even.'' He said that the break-even calculation excluded fees from retransmission consent fees that broadcasters demand from cable systems to retransmit their signals.
NBC has a substantial annual loss on its current N.F.L. deal.
Burke said it was NBC's intent to turn the Thanksgiving night game into an event.
In a telephone interview, he said: ''When everybody has finished their turkey and is ready to watch football, you are likely to generate significantly higher viewers than a Sunday night. Combine that with the fact that it's the night before Black Friday and if you're an advertiser, you have to be in the game.''
CBS and Fox added nothing quite as different or as valuable.
Instead, they received a form of flexible scheduling that allows the league to move an N.F.C. game from Fox, or an A.F.C. game from CBS, if doing so would give the shifted games a broader audience.
''Hopefully, it will improve our schedule,'' said Sean McManus, the chairman of CBS Sports. ''It's potentially significant.''
David Hill, chairman of the Fox Sports Media Group, said that the company was paying a lot more for largely the same package of rights it now has.
''It's a strong increase, but you're not talking about normal things,'' Hill said. ''The N.F.L. transcends everything, as it has soared to astronomical heights.''
The power of the league is such that no network wants to be without it, as CBS was for four years in the 1990s when Fox dramatically outbid it for the rights to N.F.C. games. ''The product is so important, and it's such a foundation for CBS,'' McManus said, ''that the longer we can lock it up, the better it is for us.''
The league told NBC that it could get more money for ''Sunday Night Football'' from cable networks like Fox's FX, or TNT, a part of Turner Sports. ''That was a little bit scary,'' Burke said.
Indeed, a group of Turner executives attended a New England game last month. TNT carried a half-season of ''Sunday Night Football'' from 1990 to 1997 before ESPN acquired the season-long rights. NBC ended its eight-year absence from carrying N.F.L. games when it began showing Sunday night games in 2006.
Mark Lazarus, a former Turner executive who is now the chairman of the NBC Sports Group, said: ''In an early discussion, they said that this would have had a different value at a cable network, whether that's Turner or whoever. They've seen what ESPN does with the N.F.L. on cable.''
The N.F.L. still might sell a package of eight early-season Thursday night games to a cable network, like Versus or perhaps Fox-owned FX, which could bring the league several hundred million dollars annually.
Eight Thursday night games are shown by the NFL Network. But Kraft said that selling a new octet of games ''is not on our agenda right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Starting in 2014, CBS, Fox and NBC will together spend about $3 billion a year for N.F.L. games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK DEMPSEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (91%); SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (75%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); THANKSGIVING (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); ESPN INC (74%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



639 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: In Hunting for Fraud, a Timid S.E.C. Misses the Big Game

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. Email: jesse@propublica.org Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
Does the Securities and Exchange Commission suffer from trialphobia?
Ever since Judge Jed S. Rakoff rejected the S.E.C.'s settlement with Citigroup over a malignant mortgage securities deal, the agency has been defending its policy to settle securities fraud cases. But the public wants a ''Law & Order'' moment, and who can blame them?
Of course, there was one criminal trial. Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn brought a case against two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers who blew up the firm's internal fund, eventually leading to the demise of Bear. They were acquitted.
But so far, there's been no civil trial in a major case directly related to the biggest economic fiasco of our time: the financial crisis. 
The S.E.C. contends that it has received more than $1.2 billion in penalties from financial crisis cases, having accused 81 people and entities, 39 of them chief executives and other senior officers. And it doesn't avoid trials altogether. The agency has averaged almost 14 trials a year from 2008 to 2010, compared with about eight from 2001 to 2003. Finally, in cases that haven't yet gone to trial, the S.E.C. has charged some low-level bankers from big Wall Street firms - but no masters of the universe.
As for the near future, the agency might actually have a financial crisis trial. Right now, it looks as if cases against the mortgage bank IndyMac, the brokerage firm Stifel Nicolaus and the executives who blew up the Reserve Primary money market fund could go to court. But do you see the pattern? None of those is a major investment bank. The S.E.C. is just not hauling in the big boys.
That could change if the S.E.C. sued Citigroup. As Judge Rakoff noted, Citigroup is a ''recidivist,'' repeatedly flouting securities laws. In its settlement with the bank, the agency cited only one mortgage securities deal, but as my ProPublica colleague Jake Bernstein and I wrote, there are many more that look just as rotten.
Yet the reason for putting Citigroup in the dock goes beyond the bank itself. The S.E.C. is not getting big enough settlements out of the largest banks. It's not bringing enough financial cases. It isn't going after the big banks' top executives. It's being way too cautious in its interpretation of its role as defender of the fairness and sanctity of the markets. The frustration, shared by Judge Rakoff and the rest of humanity, is all the greater because the agency rarely, if ever, gets anyone to admit guilt when they settle.
This renders the settlements little more than turning on the light in a kitchen full of roaches. Instead of teaching the banks a lesson, the settlements merely show how the bad actors are scattered everywhere - and the public watches the banks scurry into the pantry to feast some more.
To the S.E.C., this view is profoundly unfair.
The agency's message is, ''if you want to resolve a case short of a contested proceeding, come in and be prepared to provide the type of relief we would obtain at the end of a trial,'' said Lorin L. Reisner, the S.E.C.'s deputy director of enforcement.
''And where that's not available, we'll go to the mat.''
On a case-by-case basis, the S.E.C.'s argument for settling is strong. While the public loves a court case, lawyers often believe that trials are failures. They are expensive, time-consuming and capricious, especially in financial cases that are often so complex they challenge even sophisticated juries.
Generally, securities regulators can rack up more enforcement actions by settling. And the agency would do only civil trials anyway; it's the Justice Department that undertakes criminal trials, which probably are a greater deterrent to white-collar crime.
Fair enough. But here's the rub: By taking this doctrine too far, the S.E.C. has undermined its negotiating position.
Agency officials continually advertise how few resources they have, how costly trials are and how irresponsible it is to shareholders to force a trial when a reasonable settlement can be won instead.
Last month, for example, Robert S. Khuzami, the agency's head of enforcement, trumpeted the S.E.C.'s ''record-breaking performance during a period of resource constraints.''
In doing so, the agency has Beltway blinkers on. Sure, it's speaking to Congress, but Wall Street is also listening. When it complains, even legitimately, about its budget or how costly and difficult trials are, the S.E.C. is inadvertently showing its belly to Wall Street in a sign of submission. It's whimpering that it will shy away from a trial, afraid of draining its coffers.
When it's not signaling its fear about spending money, S.E.C. officials are often talking about how complex financial crisis cases are. In a recent conversation with James B. Stewart of The New York Times, Mr. Khuzami almost sounded as if he were Citigroup's counsel, a role for which he is well suited since he held that role at Deutsche Bank before joining the S.E.C. In that interview, he made Citigroup's case for it. But the bank's lawyers get paid enough and don't need his help.
Above all, the S.E.C. worries about losing. That means it doesn't push cases that would broaden definitions of securities fraud, the ambitious cases that penetrate the gray areas and eliminate murk as a defense against wrongdoing.
In his interview with Mr. Stewart, Mr. Khuzami worried aloud that Citigroup might have made the proper disclosure in its mortgage deal when it mentioned that it was possible the deal might have an adverse impact on its customers. Might have? It absolutely did have a clear adverse impact. If you raise an issue as a mere hypothetical when you know for a fact that it's occurring, isn't that misleading? Shouldn't that be tested? And tested in court, so that a precedent is set?
To overcome its greatest fear, the S.E.C needs to realize that it can win even if it loses. A trial against a big bank could be helpful regardless of the outcome. It would generate public interest. It would put a face on complex transactions that often are known only by abbreviations or acronyms. Litigation would cost the bank money, too. And it could cast the way Wall Street does business in such an unflattering light that even if the bank won, it might bring about better behavior.
A trial would show boldness. And when the S.E.C. found itself at the negotiating table again, it would feel a new respect.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert S. Khuzami, the S.E.C.'s enforcement chief, has trumpeted the agency's ''record-breaking performance during a period of resource constraints.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ACQUITTAL (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



640 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Charter School Approved for Affluent Brooklyn Enclave

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
The panel that oversees education policy in New York City approved the first charter school for brownstone Brooklyn on Wednesday night, backing a plan to give it space inside a building already shared by three other public schools. 
The Panel for Educational Policy handed a significant victory to a network of charter schools run by Eva S. Moskowitz, the former city councilwoman, in her quest to expand its reach to affluent parts of the city.
The new school, in Cobble Hill, will be Ms. Moskowitz's 12th in the city, but only the second in a well-to-do enclave. The other opened last summer on the Upper West Side amid protests similar to what the Cobble Hill school faced on Wednesday as it gained its final approval, during a meeting that lasted hours.
The teachers' union brought opponents by the busload, and they flocked to the microphone to offer their views during the meeting, at Newtown High School in Corona, Queens.
The opponents hurled insults and accusations at the panel's members; the schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott; and several of his deputies.
Though the meeting happened far outside the communities affected by the plans voted on by the panel, the crowd was boisterous. One opponent held a sign reading, ''How dare you?'' -- and there were jeers to drown out testimony from those who spoke in support of charter schools.
The panel also approved locating two other charter schools, one of them also part of Ms. Moskowitz's network, in buildings occupied by district schools in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, one of the city's poorest.
Most of the opposition was staged against the Cobble Hill school, though. The building it will occupy, on Baltic Street, has a school for students with disabilities and two schools serving grades 6 through 12: the School for Global Studies and the School for International Studies. But, according to the city's Department of Education, the building still has 700 available seats.
Jeff Tripp, a math and special education teacher at International Studies, disputed the department's analysis, saying the building's gym was so overused that high school students had a hard time meeting graduation requirements in physical education. Lunch in its sole cafeteria starts at 10:30 a.m., he said.
''Our students spend hours in the building and for many of them it's home,'' Mr. Tripp said. ''What you're proposing is a home invasion.''
Cobble Hill shares many similarities with the Upper West Side: It has desirable elementary schools at or near capacity, as well as million-dollar homes blocks from public housing developments. In an earlier interview, Ms. Moskowitz said her network, Success Academy Charter Schools, meant to serve both.
The school is to open in August for about 190 students in kindergarten and first grade. It will eventually expand through eighth grade.
''While there are a lot of charter operators that may serve exclusively the most disadvantaged kids, I think there's a value in having an integrated school, both racially and economically,'' Ms. Moskowitz said. ''Choice shouldn't be just for poor families.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (93%); APPROVALS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



641 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Opts To Increase Its Level Of Output

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed on Wednesday to increase its production target for the first time in three years, a move that appeared to signal that Saudi Arabia and Iran had put aside their recent differences on oil policy, at least temporarily.
The move should have little lasting effect on oil prices because the production target of 30 million barrels is closely in line with the current output by the organization, and targets were not set for individual countries. But the agreement had symbolic value coming six months after a meeting of OPEC ministers ended in disarray when they failed to reach a consensus to lift production. 
''We have an agreement to maintain the market in balance,'' said Rafael Ramirez, the energy minister of Venezuela, which had aligned with Iran at the last meeting to oppose a move advocated by Saudi Arabia to raise production targets to help the ailing global economy.
In recent years, OPEC's 12 members have increasingly followed their own production and export policies. Saudi Arabia increased its production over the last 10 months when the outbreak of revolution in Libya halted 1.3 million barrels a day of exports, and a few other gulf producers with spare capacity followed suit. With Libya production quickly ramping back up over the last two months, the Saudis have signaled that they will ease production in the coming months regardless of the results of the OPEC meeting in Vienna.
Saudi Arabia, which accounts for about a third of OPEC's total production, has been working hard behind the scenes to restore the organization's credibility after the June meeting ended with no agreement.
Iranian representatives appeared to be in no mood to challenge the Saudis despite rising tensions between the two countries in recent months over the Saudi military intervention in Bahrain and allegations of an Iranian-backed plan to assassinate the Saudi ambassador to the United States.
Iran's petroleum minister, Rostam Ghasemi, gave a conciliatory speech before OPEC ministers in which he appeared to agree with the Saudi position that OPEC should accommodate world markets with ample supplies to keep oil prices from rising too high.
''The big challenge facing the oil market at the present time is coming with the tremendous uncertainty affecting world economic growth,'' Mr. Ghasemi said. ''This uncertainty about economic growth translates into uncertainty about oil demand.''
The new quota replaces a previous target of 24.5 million barrels, which was set three years ago when the global economy and oil prices slumped badly but has been largely ignored by members who could produce more than their allotted quotas. But the total production target will include Iraq and Libya, two countries expected to expand production in coming months.
Iran, which held the rotating presidency of the OPEC this year, proposed that Iraq hold the seat next year. The ministers agreed, signaling that Iraq would again be a central player in the organization for the first time since the United States-led invasion and toppling of Saddam Hussein in 2003.
Benchmark oil prices fell by more than $4 a barrel on Wednesday, mostly because of concerns about the European economy and the declining value of the euro. Oil prices have been fluctuating in recent months, with most benchmarks ranging from $90 to $125 a barrel during the year. Most benchmark prices are now hovering around $100 a barrel, although the United States benchmark is several dollars lower, closing on Wednesday down $5.19, or 5.2 percent, to $94.95 a barrel.
Prices rose sharply in the early months of the year when turmoil spread across North Africa and the Middle East and then eased because of rising concerns about the slowing economies in Europe and the United States. Prices have firmed in recent weeks again as tensions grew between Iran and Western powers over Iran's nuclear program and the possibility that Europe would sharply curtail Iranian oil imports. Many oil analysts predict a similar price range for 2012, with a continuing tug between political instability in oil-producing countries and economic weakness among large consuming countries.
Petroleum demand has been especially soft in the United States in recent weeks. The Energy Department reported that demand last week of 18.4 million barrels a day was down by 1.8 million barrels compared with demand in the week a year earlier. The four-week annual demand was down 5.6 percent from last year because of a decline in consumption of gasoline, heating oil and other fuels.
Gasoline prices in the United States are dropping. The national average price for a gallon of regular gasoline on Wednesday was $3.26, down 15 cents from the average price a month ago. Still, the national average for a gallon of regular is 28 cents higher than it was a year ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OPEC's president, Rostam Ghasemi of Iran, left, and secretary general, Abdalla Salem el-Badri of Libya, in Vienna Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERBERT PFARRHOFER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ASSASSINATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%) SAUDI ARABIA (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); AUSTRIA (91%); BAHRAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



642 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Italy's Growing Cost of Borrowing Weighs on Investors

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks, gold and the euro all fell on Wednesday, as Italy's high borrowing fed fears that Europe's debt crisis would spin out of control.
Investors showed disappointment that the European Central Bank was not buying more bonds of troubled European countries. Buying the bonds was widely seen as a requisite next step after leaders of the European Union agreed to strengthen fiscal unity in the bloc at last week's summit meeting.
With the euro zone debt problems showing no signs of abating, and with Europe appearing to be on the verge of recession, the outlook for the world economy has grown bleaker. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has fallen more than 3 percent this week. 
''The main issue right now is the complete, absolute failure of the European Union to come to any kind of solution,'' said Jeffrey Sica, president and chief investment officer of SICA Wealth Management in Morristown, N.J. ''They're back to where they started from.''
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 131.46 points, or 1.10 percent, to end at 11,823.48. The S.& P. lost 13.91 points, or 1.13 percent, to finish at 1,211.82. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 39.96 points, or 1.55 percent, to close at 2,539.31.
A drop in oil prices hit energy stocks, with the S.& P. energy index down nearly 3 percent. Chevron fell 3 percent and was the biggest loser on the Dow behind Caterpillar, the industrial machine maker. Shares of Caterpillar, whose global operations are vulnerable to the economy, fell 4.4 percent, to $87.
Italy's borrowing costs rose to a euro-era record after an auction of five-year debt, while the euro fell to an 11-month low against the dollar.
Italy paid 6.47 percent to sell five-year debt just minutes after Germany placed 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of two-year bonds at an average yield of just 0.29 percent -- a sign of how much investors favor safety over returns. The euro was down 0.8 percent against the dollar at $1.3232.
The euro is about 10 cents above its average New York closing levels going back to January 1999, when it first began trading, according to Reuters data.
''The problem hasn't been solved, so why would you want to buy the euro?'' said Ronald D. Simpson, director of currency research at Action Economics in Tampa, Fla. ''The problem is that nobody knows how this is going to end, including the politicians and policy makers.''
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 17/32 to 100 28/32 while its yield fell to 1.90 percent from 1.96 percent late Tuesday. The yield is now the lowest it has been in three weeks.
Gold fell 3.9 percent to $1,584.30 an ounce, its lowest since late September, after the euro's decline encouraged more overseas investors to take profit on their bullion holdings. January crude fell $5.18, or 5.2 percent, to settle at $95.14 a barrel.
Shares of Chevron closed down $3.09, at $100.53. Federal prosecutors in the Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro filed a lawsuit on Wednesday against Chevron and Transocean, a rig contractor, over an oil spill off Brazil's coast last month, seeking 20 billion reais ($10.8 billion) in damages.
Technology shares sold off sharply. Several technology companies and companies in other industries have cut earnings outlooks in recent days, another sign of the fallout from a slowing economy. The latest was First Solar, a maker of solar power systems, which tumbled 21.4 percent to $33.45 after it cut its 2011 sales and profit forecast and said next year's profits would fall below Wall Street's view.
Other companies, like Intel, DuPont and Texas Instruments, have cut their outlooks in recent days.
An index of home builder stocks dropped 3.3 percent after the National Association of Realtors said data on sales of previously owned homes would be revised downward because of instances of double counting.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); AUCTIONS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); ITALY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



643 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Iran Says It May Move Uranium Enrichment to 'Safer Places'

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran may relocate its uranium enrichment work to more secure locations, a senior Iranian defense official said Wednesday, an acknowledgment of increased concern that Iran's suspected nuclear program could face a military attack from Israel or the United States. 
The official, Gholamreza Jalali, who is the director of Iran's Passive Defense Organization, a unit of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, did not cite a particular threat or specify when the relocation might take place. But his statement came against the backdrop of sharply increased tensions with the West over the nuclear program, which Iran contends is solely for peaceful purposes.
''Our vulnerability in the nuclear area has reached the minimum level,'' Mr. Jalali said in remarks reported by Iran's semiofficial Mehr news agency. ''If circumstances require it, the uranium enrichment facilities will be relocated to safer places.''
Tensions were first elevated with the publication of a United Nations report last month that said Iran might be working on a nuclear weapon and a missile delivery system.
Since then, the United States and European nations have toughened economic sanctions on Iran, American intelligence operatives have acknowledged increased surveillance of what are said to be Iran's nuclear sites and Iran captured an American spy drone.
Iran also has faced a steady flow of ambiguous statements from Israel, which regards Iran as its most dangerous enemy, about the possibility of a military strike. And the Iranians have been confronted with a series of suspicious acts that seem to have been directed against their nuclear and missile capacities, including an unexplained explosion at a military base on Nov. 12.
The blast was described by the Iranian media as an accident; it killed Iran's long-range missile pioneer and might have set back the country's long-range missile work by years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); RELIGION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



644 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Poland Skirts Euro Zone Woes, for Now

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
WARSAW -- Does Poland have the last healthy economy in Europe?
With robust economic growth, rising foreign investment and a new luxury high-rise, designed by Daniel Libeskind, redefining the Warsaw skyline, it certainly feels like a different world from most of its neighbors, troubled by the debt crisis and recession fears.
Not being part of the euro zone turns out to have been a blessing for Poland -- and a lesson in how a national currency can help a country absorb international shocks. But business executives and government leaders are rightly nervous about how long this country of 38 million, the only one in the European Union to avoid recession in 2009, can again escape the euro area's pain.
''Poland remains an island,'' said Lucyna Stanczak, country director for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. ''The question is, Is it going to remain this way? The slowdown in Western Europe will affect Poland one way or another.'' 
Trouble is already spilling over the border.
Many of Poland's banks are expected to change hands as their West European parent companies, like Commerzbank of Germany, struggle to raise cash. The country's main stock index is down 24 percent since April as international investors reflexively lumped Poland into the same category as ailing East European countries like Hungary or Romania. While there is officially no credit squeeze in Poland, small-business loans are increasingly hard to come by.
''Small companies are not getting financing unless they have a 10-year history and a factory,'' said Anna Katarzyna Nietyksza, president of Eficom, a Warsaw consulting firm that provides advice to companies on how to apply for European Union funds or for listing on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. ''If you don't have collateral, something concrete, you don't get financing.''
Although Poland remains staunchly pro-European, there have been stirrings of discontent, particularly in the main opposition Law and Justice Party led by Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the former prime minister. A rally against closer European integration led by Mr. Kaczynski drew about 3,000 people to the streets of Warsaw on Tuesday, according to a police estimate cited by The Associated Press.
For now, though, Warsaw seems to be one of the few boomtowns left in the European Union. Leveled in World War II and rebuilt with a heavy hand by the Communists, the city is in the midst of a big expansion.
New ring roads, mass transit and bridges may eventually relieve the chronic traffic jams. An undulating 54-story apartment complex designed by Mr. Libeskind, who is based in New York but was born in Poland, will finally offer a challenge to the Palace of Culture and Science, built by the Russians as a monument to Stalin, for supremacy on the Warsaw skyline.
Piotr Czarnecki, chief executive of the Polish operation of Raiffeisen Bank International, an Austrian bank, complains that his daily commute, which should take 20 minutes, often takes an hour and a half because of the city's jammed roads.
''I was born in Warsaw, my whole family comes from Warsaw for many generations,'' he said. ''I have never seen such a tremendous scale of investment.''
There are other signs of emerging wealth. The city has a Gucci outlet and a Ferrari dealership, the latter occupying part of a building that was once headquarters of the Polish Communist Party.
Next to the Ferrari showroom, the Warsaw Stock Exchange gained 38 new listings in the three months through September. As a result, Poland ranked behind China and ahead of the United States in the number of initial public offerings during the third quarter, according to a tally by the consulting firm Ernst & Young.
Measured by the amount of capital raised, Poland ranked fourth with $2 billion, behind the United States but well ahead of Britain or Germany.
Poland is expected to grow 2.5 percent in 2012, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That is a marked slowdown from more than 4 percent in 2011, but still vibrant compared with Western Europe, which is heading toward recession.
Poland even outshines much of Western Europe in terms of political stability. In October, Poles re-elected a government led by Prime Minister Donald Tusk. It was the first time since the fall of the Iron Curtain that Poles had given a government a second consecutive term, and it contrasts with Western Europe, where turmoil related to the debt crisis has led to the removal of leaders in several countries.
Officially, Poland is still moving toward adopting the euro. In fact, membership is mandatory under the terms of the agreement that allowed Poland to join the union in 2004.
''The official view is yes, we would like to be in the euro zone,'' said Andrzej Raczko, a member of the management board of the National Bank of Poland, the central bank. ''But it's difficult to tell now when.''
The timing depends on how quickly Poland meets the economic and budgetary criteria to join, he said, as well as the scale and speed of euro zone reforms. The earliest Poland might be ready would be around 2015, officials say, but they have not set a target.
Poland has on balance benefited from a decline in the value of the zloty against the euro, economists say, helping the country's exports remain price competitive on world markets. The advantages of having a national currency are not lost on local business people.
''We intend to join the euro,'' said Ludwik Sobolewski, chief executive of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. ''But it would make sense to wait until the euro zone is healthier.''
Still, Poland is economically inseparable from Western Europe. More than half of Polish exports go to the euro area, and more than one quarter to Germany, which is by far the largest trading partner.
The Polish banking market is dominated by institutions like UniCredit of Italy, Santander of Spain and Commerzbank, which are under severe pressure from regulators to bolster their cash reserves. Despite assurances by the banks that they stand by their subsidiaries, policy makers fear that the foreign owners might starve the Polish units of capital or be tempted to sell to less savory buyers.
Russian banks are seen as likely bidders if some Polish banks come up for auction, a prospect that makes many Poles deeply uncomfortable.
Any buyer ''should be a well-known bank in Europe without too many problems,'' Mr. Raczko said.
But the number of well-known European banks without too many problems is dwindling by the day. ''The list of buyers may not be as long as it once was,'' said Alan Jarman, chief executive of the Polish unit of HSBC.
With its large domestic market, Poland is more self-sustaining than smaller countries like Hungary. Indeed, for a country that has endured as much in the course of history as Poland, the current crisis seems mild.
''We are very well trained in dealing with a very fast-changing environment,'' said Mr. Czarnecki of Raiffeisen bank. ''If you ask a Polish entrepreneur about the last 21 years of transformation, he'll say every year was a roller coaster.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the surging economy in Poland, in contrast to its European Union neighbors, omitted part of the name of an Austrian bank with operations in Poland. That bank, whose leader in Poland, Piotr Czarnecki, complained of jammed roads in Warsaw, is Raiffeisen Bank International, not Raiffeisen International.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prices for exports, like copper, are competitive abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTEK SADOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 The construction of a luxury high-rise in Warsaw, designed by Daniel Libeskind, is one sign of Poland's economic growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER ANDREWS/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EURO (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (55%); CBK (FRA) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (94%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) POLAND (98%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



645 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Worker-Owners of America, Unite!

BYLINE: By GAR ALPEROVITZ. 
Gar Alperovitz, a professor of political economy at the University of Maryland and a founder of the Democracy Collaborative, is the author of ''America Beyond Capitalism.''

 BODY:
College Park, Md.
THE Occupy Wall Street protests have come and mostly gone, and whether they continue to have an impact or not, they have brought an astounding fact to the public's attention: a mere 1 percent of Americans own just under half of the country's financial assets and other investments. America, it would seem, is less equitable than ever, thanks to our no-holds-barred capitalist system.
But at another level, something different has been quietly brewing in recent decades: more and more Americans are involved in co-ops, worker-owned companies and other alternatives to the traditional capitalist model. We may, in fact, be moving toward a hybrid system, something different from both traditional capitalism and socialism, without anyone even noticing. 
Some 130 million Americans, for example, now participate in the ownership of co-op businesses and credit unions. More than 13 million Americans have become worker-owners of more than 11,000 employee-owned companies, six million more than belong to private-sector unions.
And worker-owned companies make a difference. In Cleveland, for instance, an integrated group of worker-owned companies, supported in part by the purchasing power of large hospitals and universities, has taken the lead in local solar-panel installation, ''green'' institutional laundry services and a commercial hydroponic greenhouse capable of producing more than three million heads of lettuce a year.
Local and state governments are likewise changing the nature of American capitalism. Almost half the states manage venture capital efforts, taking partial ownership in new businesses. Calpers, California's public pension authority, helps finance local development projects; in Alaska, state oil revenues provide each resident with dividends from public investment strategies as a matter of right; in Alabama, public pension investing has long focused on state economic development.
Moreover, this year some 14 states began to consider legislation to create public banks similar to the longstanding Bank of North Dakota; 15 more began to consider some form of single-payer or public-option health care plan.
Some of these developments, like rural co-ops and credit unions, have their origins in the New Deal era; some go back even further, to the Grange movement of the 1880s. The most widespread form of worker ownership stems from 1970s legislation that provided tax benefits to owners of small businesses who sold to their employees when they retired. Reagan-era domestic-spending cuts spurred nonprofits to form social enterprises that used profits to help finance their missions.
Recently, growing economic pain has provided a further catalyst. The Cleveland cooperatives are an answer to urban decay that traditional job training, small-business and other development strategies simply do not touch. They also build on a 30-year history of Ohio employee-ownership experiments traceable to the collapse of the steel industry in the 1970s and '80s.
Further policy changes are likely. In Indiana, the Republican state treasurer, Richard Mourdock, is using state deposits to lower interest costs to employee-owned companies, a precedent others states could easily follow. Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, is developing legislation to support worker-owned strategies like that of Cleveland in other cities. And several policy analysts have proposed expanding existing government ''set aside'' procurement programs for small businesses to include co-ops and other democratized enterprises.
If such cooperative efforts continue to increase in number, scale and sophistication, they may suggest the outlines, however tentative, of something very different from both traditional, corporate-dominated capitalism and traditional socialism.
It's easy to overestimate the possibilities of a new system. These efforts are minor compared with the power of Wall Street banks and the other giants of the American economy. On the other hand, it is precisely these institutions that have created enormous economic problems and fueled public anger.
During the populist and progressive eras, a decades-long buildup of public anger led to major policy shifts, many of which simply took existing ideas from local and state efforts to the national stage. Furthermore, we have already seen how, in moments of crisis, the nationalization of auto giants like General Motors and Chrysler can suddenly become a reality. When the next financial breakdown occurs, huge injections of public money may well lead to de facto takeovers of major banks.
And while the American public has long supported the capitalist model, that, too, may be changing. In 2009 a Rasmussen poll reported that Americans under 30 years old were ''essentially evenly divided'' as to whether they preferred ''capitalism'' or ''socialism.''
A long era of economic stagnation could well lead to a profound national debate about an America that is dominated neither by giant corporations nor by socialist bureaucrats. It would be a fitting next direction for a troubled nation that has long styled itself as of, by and for the people.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROSS MACDONALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); LEGISLATION (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NORTH DAKOTA (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



646 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Import Prices Rebound

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- American import prices recorded their largest increase in seven months in November as the cost of oil surged, but underlying import inflation pressures remain contained. 
Overall import prices in the U.S. rebounded 0.7 percent, the Labor Department said Wednesday. They had fallen 0.5 percent in October. Last month's increase was the largest since April.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected prices to rise 0.9 percent last month. Import prices were up 9.9 percent in the 12 months through November.
Excluding oil, import prices fell 0.2 percent after declining 0.3 percent in October.
Despite the 3.6 percent rise in the cost of imported oil last month, inflation pressures remain largely in check, after a surge in energy prices early this year dampened growth.
Prices on imported petroleum rose in November for the first time since July and reversed a 1.1 percent drop in October.
Suggesting benign inflation pressures, imported food prices slipped 0.1 percent last month after falling 0.7 percent in October.
The cost of imported capital goods rose 0.1 percent after falling 0.3 percent in October. Imported motor vehicle prices rose 0.2 percent.
The report also showed that export prices nudged up 0.1 percent last month after dropping 2.1 percent in October. Analysts expected export prices to gain 0.3 percent. Export prices were up 4.7 percent in the 12 months to November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT PRICES (97%); IMPORT TRADE (95%); PRICE INCREASES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



647 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: As Gas Drilling Spreads, Towns Stand Ground Over Control

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
SOUTH FAYETTE, Pa. -- As energy companies move to drill in densely populated areas from Pennsylvania to Texas, battles are breaking out over who will have the final say in managing the shale gas boom.
The fight, which pits towns and cities against energy companies and states eager for growth, has raised a fundamental question about the role of local government: How much authority should communities have over the use of their land?
The battle is playing out in Pennsylvania as the Republican-controlled legislature considers bills that would in their current form sharply limit a community's right to control where gas companies can operate on private property. Critics say the final bill could vastly weaken local zoning powers and give industry the upper hand in exchange for a new tax, which municipalities badly need.
The legislation has struck a nerve in a state where land control has long been considered quintessentially local. 
''I'm a conservative Republican, and this goes against all my principles,'' said Brian Coppola, the chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Robinson Township, in Washington County west of Pittsburgh. The pending legislation, he said, ''is an enormous land grab on the part of the industry. He added, ''Our property rights are being trampled.''
Mr. Coppola noted a hillside in town that began to crack and slide under the weight of a new shale gas processing plant, which he contends was built without a permit. The town's zoning powers allowed him, through a court, to compel the company to follow town regulations and allow town inspectors access to the site. The site was eventually stabilized. Losing those powers would leave local officials out of the equation, he said, even though they are responsible for protecting the health and safety of their citizens.
''I'm an unpaid, part-time elected official, and it's been a nightmare,'' he said. ''The state is not capable of monitoring even the most basic parts of this industry.''
Local governments argue that drilling is an industrial activity, just like that of a gas station or a cement factory, that should be subject to zoning. Dozens of towns, cities and counties across the country have enacted rules on drilling noise, lighting and the distance from homes and, in some cases, outright bans. In New York State alone, there have been at least 70 such actions.
Companies say the rush to regulate has produced an overly burdensome set of demands that is denting their potential when the economy desperately needs a lift.
''It's like having to get a different driver's license in every town,'' said Matt Pitzarella, a spokesman for Range Resources, a Texas drilling company that is active here.
The flurry of local rules comes as the federal government inches forward on a national study of hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking, the process used to extract previously inaccessible natural gas from shale deep underground.
The study is expected to shape the future of the industry, but progress has been slow. In the meantime, courts have become the next frontier.
In New York in September, a Denver exploration company sued Dryden, a town near Ithaca, over a drilling ban. In Colorado, Gunnison County, which contains a ski resort, is fighting a drilling company's court challenge to its zoning. In Texas, a restrictive gas drilling ordinance adopted by an affluent suburb of Dallas called Flower Mound has drawn several lawsuits charging that it amounts to an unconstitutional seizure of mineral rights.
Jordan Yeager, a Pennsylvania lawyer who represents municipalities, said litigation brought by gas companies had a chilling effect, discouraging towns and cities from enacting regulations because they cannot afford to defend them in court.
Supporters of the Pennsylvania legislation argue that it would hold the industry to higher, more uniform environmental standards in addition to charging them fees.
''We substantially raised the bar of what we expect from natural gas operators,'' said Representative Matthew Baker, a Republican who helped shape the legislation.
Emily A. Collins, a professor of environmental and oil and gas law at the University of Pittsburgh, said parts of the legislation would help the environment -- for example, expanding the distance in which a driller could be presumed responsible for replacing a tainted water supply.
She said the legislation seemed to anticipate litigation, calling for special judges to be added to the state Commonwealth Court, presumably to handle new flows of cases against local governments.
Companies have been ramping up shale gas drilling operations during the past decade in states like Texas and Colorado, and during the past several years in Pennsylvania, where the giant Marcellus Shale formation has set off a frenzy of activity.
The industry, however, has bumped up against affluent homeowners concerned about possible health effects and their property values. The median household income in Flower Mound, for example, is more than double the national median.
''It used to be that gas development happened 'out there,' '' said Gwen Lachelt, the director of the Oil and Gas Accountability Project for Earthworks, a national organization based in Colorado. ''Now you see it in urban areas.''
That was the case in South Fayette, a bedroom community of rolling hills and upscale developments in Allegheny County for professionals from Pittsburgh. In August, Range Resources lodged a formal complaint against a zoning ordinance that established distances that drilling pads had to be kept from buildings in residential areas, charging that it went further than state law allows. On Nov. 9, the town rejected that complaint, raising the stakes.
''I spent a lot of money and invested heavily in my home,'' said Keith McDonough, a resident who is an executive at a clothing company. ''I don't want to see it go up in smoke on a fracking site.''
Mr. McDonough, who described himself as a die-hard Republican, said he was finding himself doing things he had never done before, like knocking on doors and circulating petitions.
William Sray, a farmer who has signed a lease with a gas company, argued that by delaying drilling, opponents were denying his right to fulfill his contract and collect royalties. ''Everybody has property rights, but they're not respecting mine,'' he said.
Mr. Pitzarella, of Range Resources, said that only a small minority of towns in Pennsylvania's Marcellus Shale area -- about 80 of approximately 1,800 -- had, or were developing, regulations and that most of them were affluent. A strong set of state standards that people agree on would protect all communities, he said.
''It's about having predictable and enforceable regulation that works for everyone,'' he said.
But local regulation of oil and gas development is very strong in Texas, Professor Collins said, and has not seemed to hamper the industry's growth. Fort Worth, for example, issues its own permits for drilling, something that states typically do.
Mr. Coppola argued that the most immediate risk in Pennsylvania was the possibility that companies, which are not required to share infrastructure like pipelines and compressor stations, could erect multiple sets, driving away developers and affluent residents and reducing the tax base.
Mr. McDonough was hopeful. He said towns would not make the same mistake they did with the coal industry. A river in town still runs orange, even though the industry is long gone.
''We're at a turning point,'' he said. ''If this is not done with common sense, we will have lost an entire way of life.''
Online Correction: December 14, 2011, Wednesday
Due to an editing error, an earlier version of this article misidentified the school at which Emily A. Collins is a professor. It is the University of Pittsburgh, not the University of Pennsylvania.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dianne Krivonick and her daughter, Lily, 10, moved this year to South Fayette, Pa. Last month, the township rejected a Marcellus Shale driller's complaint about a zoning law. (A20)
 Newbury Village is a new development in South Fayette, near Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania legislation could limit how it and other towns regulate drilling operations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUNTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ZONING (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PROPERTY LAW (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); CEMENT MFG (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (61%)

COMPANY: RANGE RESOURCES LTD (50%)

TICKER: RRS (ASX) (50%); RRL (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



648 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Kors Stock, Like Frocks, Selling Fast

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
8:29 p.m. Updated
Michael Kors seems to be everywhere. The fashion designer's stores are popping up across the world, with his largest just opening in Paris. His oversize gold watches are white-hot Christmas gifts. As a judge on Lifetime's ''Project Runway,'' Mr. Kors is also a staple on cable television.
His latest debut is less haute couture and more high finance.
On Wednesday, his Hong Kong-based company, where Mr. Kors is the chief creative officer, priced its initial public offering at $20, above the expected range of $17 to $19. The stock sale, which raised nearly $950 million, values the company at $3.8 billion. 
The I.P.O. caps a period of extraordinary growth for the company. Profits are on track to more than double this year, and sales are increasing at an annual rate of about 60 percent.
Such rapid expansion has raised the eyebrows of retail analysts, who question whether the Kors label will maintain its cachet or succumb to the fickleness of fashion.
''Everybody wants to be the next Ralph Lauren,'' said Faye Landes, a retail analyst at Consumer Edge Research in Stamford, Conn. ''But how lasting the brand will be remains an open question.''
Kors is also selling its shares into a choppy market. Investors have shied away from unproven companies, amid concerns over the European debt crisis and the sluggish United States economy. Stock of several hot debuts, like the Internet companies Groupon and Pandora, have dropped below their offering prices.
Newly public fashion stocks have been soft, too. Prada, the Italian luxury retailer, is down since its debut, while a rival, Ferragamo, is flat.
Analysts are worried that Kors could suffer too, especially with the insiders paring back their holdings through the I.P.O. and an earlier private sale of shares. The stock is set to start trading Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker KORS.
For now, it appears Kors stock is as hot as its dresses. Orders for the I.P.O. greatly exceeded the amount of shares sold, people briefed on the deal said, driving up the price of the offering.
''In the early days of trading, the hot money drives the performance of Michael Kors, the stock,'' said John E. Fitzgibbon Jr., publisher of IPOscoop.com. ''But over time, as that moves out, investors will start to focus on Michael Kors, the company.''
Michael Kors, the person, was born Karl Anderson Jr. He changed his first name and borrowed the last name, Kors, from his mother's second husband, Bill Kors, who had adopted him. He grew up in Merrick, N.Y., which he has called the home of ''Olympic shoppers'' and credits with fostering his fashion sense.
Mr. Kors, a Fashion Institute of Technology dropout, designed a collection for Lothar's, the Manhattan boutique, now defunct. He started his own business in 1981, creating designer apparel that developed a cult following among the Upper East Side crowd. Today, trendsetters like Michelle Obama and Angelina Jolie favor his frocks.
But most of the company's recent growth has come from its lower-end Michael by Michael Kors line, which sells sequined wrap dresses for $150 and python-embossed shoulder bags for $228. The cheaper clothes and purses, which a Kors executive described to potential investors last week as ''Hermes for Staten Island,'' are big sellers at Macy's and Lord & Taylor.
Or, as Mr. Kors put it in an interview with Women's Wear Daily, ''It doesn't matter what your pocketbook is, everyone wants to look thin and rich.''
While not affecting Mr. Kors's waistline, the I.P.O. will make him rich. Mr. Kors, 52, the company's honorary chairman and chief creative officer, is selling stock worth about $117 million, or roughly a third of his holdings. He maintains an 8.6 percent ownership stake, worth about $327 million at the offering price.
The I.P.O. adds to a year of personal milestones for Mr. Kors. In August, he and his boyfriend, Lance LePere, married in a barefoot ceremony on Dune Beach in Southampton. They met two decades ago when Mr. LePere worked as an intern at Michael Kors. Today, Mr. LePere is the creative director of the company's women's line.
Kors stock, in many ways, is not a bet on Mr. Kors, but on Lawrence S. Stroll and Silas K. F. Chou, the fashion tycoons who control the majority of the company's stock and have fueled its growth. Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou run Sportswear Holdings Limited, which acquired Kors in 2003 for about $100 million. Their ambitions were to bring the luxury sensibility of Mr. Kors to the masses and turn it into the next great American designer firm.
They sought to replicate their success with the Tommy Hilfiger Corporation. Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou were early Tommy Hilfiger investors in the late 1980s and aggressively expanded that business, pushing it into department stores and broadening its customer base. The two men made millions when the company went public in 1992. (Today, Tommy Hilfiger is owned by the apparel giant PVH Corporation.)
Retail analysts say that while Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou have a record of success, they have also had some stumbles, including their failed investment in Asprey, the London luxury brand.
They also point to some specific concerns with the Kors deal. Because the company is based in Hong Kong and Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou control the majority of its stock, Kors does not have to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. For instance, the company will not be required to have a majority of independent board members.
The I.P.O. does not include Kors's Chinese business, which is a separate entity and remains controlled by Mr. Stroll, Mr. Chou and Mr. Kors. That means that the company, at least for now, will not benefit from the tremendous growth that other luxury retailers have seen in China.
Another red flag is the large amount of stock being sold by the owners. Besides Mr. Kors's stake, the holding company of Mr. Stroll and Mr. Chou is selling $519 million worth of stock. After the I.P.O., they will own 35 percent of the company, worth $1.4 billion.
It is the second time this year the owners have cut their holdings. This summer, they sold $500 million worth of shares in a private sale to mutual fund firms like Fidelity and T. Rowe Price.
''There are aspects of this deal that are opaque,'' said Ms. Landes, the analyst. ''Plus, the fact that the insiders are selling so much stock is a potential cause for concern.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: December 14, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the network currently showing ''Project Runway,'' the cable television series on which Michael Kors is a judge. It is now shown on Lifetime; it was previously shown on Bravo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A shopper at the Michael Kors store in Miami's Dolphin Mall. The I.P.O. raised $950 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNNE SLADKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Michael Kors, who started his business in 1981, has developed a loyal following, including Michelle Obama and Angelina Jolie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EURO CRISIS (64%); DEBT CRISIS (64%); CHRISTMAS (57%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (59%); RALPH LAUREN (58%); ANGELINA JOLIE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) FRANCE (90%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



649 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Putting Political Reform Right Into the Pockets Of the Nation's Voters

BYLINE: By THOMAS B. EDSALL. 
Thomas B. Edsall, an online columnist for The New York Times's Campaign Stops blog, is a professor of journalism at Columbia University and the author of the coming book ''The Age of Austerity: How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics.''

 BODY:
REPUBLIC, LOST
How Money Corrupts Congress -- and a Plan to Stop It
By Lawrence Lessig
383 pages. Twelve. $26.99.
In ''Republic, Lost'' Lawrence Lessig -- a Harvard Law School professor and a leading advocate of applying the principles of open Web access to less technical forms of creative expression, like music, writing, and the visual arts -- makes an extraordinary leap of faith.
There is, in his view, one thing holding back America, a legal but corrupt system of campaign finance. ''Practically every important issue in American politics today is tied to this 'one issue,' '' he writes. Mr. Lessig's agenda (invoking Thoreau) is to attack ''the root, the thing that feeds the other ills, and the thing that we must kill first.''
Existing campaign finance reforms, particularly donor disclosure and contribution limits, have done as much harm as good, leading to ''a corruption practiced by decent people'' and legitimizing what Mr. Lessig calls ''a gift economy.'' Disclosure of the identities of contributors has made the venal routine. The system ''normalizes dependence,'' Mr. Lessig writes. ''There's is no shame in the dance.'' 
Mr. Lessig's vision is at once profoundly pessimistic -- the integrity of the nation is collapsing under the best of intentions -- and deeply optimistic. Simple legislative surgery, he says, can put the nation back on the path to greatness.
His solution is to create an alternative campaign-finance system; alternative because Supreme Court rulings, most especially the 2010 Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission decision, make it difficult to regulate the current system, which permits unlimited corporate and independent expenditures in support of candidates for federal office.
Under Mr. Lessig's proposed plan every voting-age adult would receive a $50 voucher from the federal government (an idea similar to the ''patriot dollars'' advocated by the Yale law professor Bruce Ackerman and colleagues in 2003) that could only be used to contribute to qualified candidates for federal office. To be eligible, the candidate would agree to finance his or her campaign entirely with vouchers and private contributions of $100 or less from individuals in the candidate's home state.
In Mr. Lessig's view this system would be so attractive to candidates that it would crowd out the existing corrupt system, with no need to impose prohibitions or restrictions that conservatives view as violating free speech. He also estimates it would raise as much or more money than currently floods into campaigns.
His strongest argument undermines conservative demands for the complete deregulation of campaign finance. A system with no restraints empowers ''capitalists to corrupt capitalism,'' he contends. ''So long as wealth can be used to leverage political power, wealth will be used to leverage political power to protect itself'' against free market competition -- the very system capitalists are pledged to support.
There is strong evidence of the corrupting effects of political fund-raising, and Mr. Lessig has amassed it. In a November interview with Boston Review he noted that in the first quarter of 2011 Congress -- awash in special interest money from banks attempting to push through a bill allowing them to collect per-transaction debit-card fees -- spent more time on that issue than on unemployment, the deficit, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, health care or global warming.
''There is not one congressman who decided to run for Congress because he thought, 'I'm going to deal with the problem of the banks' swipe fees,' '' Mr. Lessig explained in the interview. ''It's only because if you can dance as a congressman with a little bit of uncertainty of which side you're going to come down on in this controversy, millions of dollars gets showered down upon you because there's $19 billion on the table depending on how this issue is resolved.''
Mr. Lessig's analysis of the distorting effects of money is, in the main, dead on. The problems with ''Republic, Lost'' lie elsewhere. While he insists, again quoting Thoreau, that to hack at the ''branches of evil'' is futile, campaign finance reform is, in itself, arguably an inadequate ax.
With billions of dollars at stake, corporations -- and powerful interests in general -- have consistently found ways both to avoid and evade obstacles. Those with power have an unbroken record of finding ways to navigate around reform laws or turn regulatory standards to their own advantage.
For example, the primary users of the Freedom of Information Act are not journalists and crusaders seeking to reveal illicit activities; they are businesses seeking to find out what government regulators are up to and what their competitors have disclosed to government agencies.
Similarly, Congressional reforms requiring publicly recorded committee votes are not of most use to the news media or constituents; they help lobbyists verify whether targeted officials have lived up to their promises to vote for or against major amendments.
Mr. Lessig's $50 voucher system could theoretically be used to gain corrupt advantage. Heavily regulated big companies already specialize in amassing employee contributions into ''bundles'' for influential members of Congress. What is to prevent bundling on an even larger scale using new employee vouchers?
The unlikelihood of success has not deterred Mr. Lessig, and he deserves respect for his determination. In his career to date he has tackled the government's ''Neanderthal policy'' toward regulation of the Internet and has argued for an overhaul of the copyright system in a digital environment.
The underlying rationale for his shift of focus, from digital freedom to the power of money in politics, can be seen in Congress this week. The House Judiciary Committee is preparing legislation, the Stop Online Piracy Act, for approval by the full House. The measure is a setback for Mr. Lessig and others opposed to what they consider the suppression of free speech on the Internet.
More important, however -- and regardless of the outcome -- the legislative battle has not been a struggle to determine what is in the best public interest, but rather a titanic war of special interests.
On one side are office holders beholden to the deep-pocketed donors whose profits depend on open Internet access, like Google, Oracle and other Silicon Valley tech giants (along with less obvious allies like civil-liberties and human-rights groups). On the other side are House and Senate members beholden to campaign contributors like the powerful content providers NBC, Fox, Disney, music companies, Comcast, AT&T and Verizon -- as well as the United States Chamber of Commerce.
Breaking the dependence of Congress on special-interest contributions, Mr. Lessig maintains, would give first priority to citizens and secondary consideration to the claims of corporate and trade association lobbyists in just such important discussions.
While he has stepped away from the digital debate, he has remained committed to the least cynical path, a commitment increasingly rare and one to be valued.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TWELVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); POLITICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (63%); VISUAL ARTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Republic, Lost (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



650 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Offer Bipartisan Proposal to Limit Medicare Costs in Overhaul

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A Democratic senator, Ron Wyden of Oregon, and a Republican member of the House, Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, unveiled a bipartisan plan on Wednesday to revamp Medicare and make a fixed federal contribution to the cost of coverage for each beneficiary. 
The lawmakers aim to reshape the debate over the giant health insurance program by addressing concerns that have provoked fierce opposition to similar ideas in the past.
Just as important as the details of their proposal was the fact that the two were working together on an issue that both parties have exploited for political advantage.
In 2010, many Republicans won House seats -- and the support of older voters -- by arguing that President Obama's health care law would damage Medicare. Democrats are hoping to retake the House by arguing that Mr. Ryan and other House Republicans are pushing for the privatization of Medicare, which they say could greatly increase costs for beneficiaries.
The new Wyden-Ryan proposal, by blurring the contrast between the parties on this issue, could make it more difficult for Democrats to win the argument.
The proposal would make major structural changes in Medicare and limit the government's open-ended financial commitment to the program.
Under the proposal, known as premium support, Medicare would subsidize premiums charged by private insurers that care for beneficiaries under contract with the government.
Congress would establish an insurance exchange for Medicare beneficiaries. Private plans would compete with the traditional Medicare program and would have to provide benefits of the same or greater value. The federal contribution in each region would be based on the cost of the second-cheapest option, whether that was a private plan or traditional Medicare.
In addition, the growth of Medicare would be capped. In general, spending would not be allowed to increase more than the growth of the economy, plus one percentage point -- a slower rate of increase than Medicare has historically experienced.
To stay under the limit, Congress could cut payments to providers and suppliers responsible for the overspending and could increase Medicare premiums for high-income beneficiaries, the lawmakers said.
The proposal is sure to come under fire from beneficiaries and Democratic lawmakers who see themselves as the pre-eminent defenders of Medicare.
For his part, Mr. Wyden said: ''Medicare is the most important fiber in the social safety net. I would never do anything to shred it, weaken it or harm it in any way. Our proposal places traditional Medicare, long supported by progressives, alongside a menu of private alternatives that provide the choice and competition long supported by conservatives.''
Unlike the Ryan budget blueprint approved by the House in April, Mr. Ryan said, the new proposal would preserve the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program as an option for all beneficiaries. ''Our proposal harnesses the power of competition to address the root cause of medical inflation,'' said Mr. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
Democrats expressed concerns about the proposal based on policy and politics. A senior Democratic Congressional aide said, ''This plan gives bipartisan political cover to Ryan and other Republicans against whom we have been waging a very successful political offensive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Paul D. Ryan, above left, and Senator Ron Wyden have a plan capping the government's Medicare contribution. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); BUDGETS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); RON WYDEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



651 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: China Imposes New Tariffs on U.S. Vehicles

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- The Chinese government increased trade tensions with the Obama administration Wednesday evening by unexpectedly imposing antidumping and antisubsidy tariffs on imports of sport utility vehicles and midsize and large cars from the United States.
The new tariffs, totaling up to nearly 22 percent of the import prices, will probably have a mainly symbolic function, rather than reducing the already skimpy sales of such vehicles in China. Other tariffs and taxes already in place have limited sales of American imports by helping raise their retail prices by about three times what the same cars and S.U.V.'s sell for in the United States.
Still, firing a trade volley at American exports of automobiles, one of the most politically sensitive industries in international trade, can only escalate trade hostilities between China and the United States.
China's move drew immediate criticism from the Obama administration. 
''We are very disappointed in this action by China,'' said Carol Guthrie, a spokeswoman for the Office of the United States Trade Representative. ''We will be discussing this latest action with both our stakeholders and Congress to determine the best course going forward.''
The Commerce Ministry of China, which has conducted a two-year trade investigation of the American imports, gave no explanation for its decision to impose the duties. Ministry officials could not be reached for elaboration Wednesday evening.
The duties would mainly affect General Motors, which exports Cadillac S.U.V.'s and cars to China; Chrysler, which exports Jeeps; the BMW Group of Germany, which exports BMW S.U.V.'s from South Carolina; and Daimler of Germany, which exports Mercedes S.U.V.'s from a factory in Alabama.
Because of the high Chinese tariffs and taxes already in place, the vehicles are sold only in the thousands or even hundreds in China, and only to the most affluent. (A Jeep Grand Cherokee that begins at $27,490 at dealerships in the United States costs $85,000 or more in China.)
The White House announced last week that it would ask the World Trade Organization next Monday to open an inquiry into Chinese restrictions on imports of American broiler chickens.
More significantly, Chinese government agencies and companies have been furious about a current American investigation into whether Chinese solar panels exported to the United States might have received illegal subsidies or been dumped in the American market at prices below the cost of manufacturing them.
American officials have previously examined the methodology of China's two-year-old antidumping and antisubsidy investigation of American-made automobiles and have found ''significant problems,'' said Ms. Guthrie, the United States trade spokeswoman.
One challenge for China, which recently celebrated its 10th anniversary as a member of the World Trade Organization, is whether Wednesday's action will be allowed under W.T.O. rules.
The trade organization places many limits on a member nation's ability to impose antidumping and antisubsidy measures, particularly on goods from countries that the W.T.O. has declared as having market economies, like the United States.
''Dumping'' might be hard to demonstrate, given that the prices of the American vehicles -- even before China's tariff and tax markups -- tend to be higher than in the United States.
The Chinese accusation of subsidies may be linked to previous comments by Chinese officials questioning whether the Obama administration provided too much federal assistance to G.M. and Chrysler two years ago during the global financial crisis.
China started the automotive trade case two days after President Obama imposed steep tariffs on surging imports of Chinese tires in September 2009. After an inquiry, the W.T.O. ruled this autumn that the American tariffs on tire imports had complied with international trade rules.
The new tariffs China imposed Wednesday will be antidumping duties of 8.9 percent for G.M. vehicles, 8.8 percent for Chrysler, 2.7 percent for Daimler and 2 percent for BMW.
The ministry separately imposed additional antisubsidy duties of 12.9 percent for G.M. and 6.2 percent for Chrysler.
The ministry's statement said that all of the new duties would be calculated on vehicle prices that include China's existing 25 percent import tariff for all family vehicles. So buyers will effectively pay the new antidumping and antisubsidy taxes on other Chinese taxes in addition to paying the new taxes on the value of the car.
China's import tariff is much higher than those of other big auto manufacturing nations. The United States, for example, assesses a tariff of 2.5 percent on imported cars, minivans and S.U.V.'s.
The new Chinese duties will apply to sport utility vehicles and cars with engines of 2.5 liters or greater that are imported from the United States. The duties will be in place for two years, through Dec. 14, 2013, according to the ministry's announcement.
BMW said that it anticipated little effect from the duties, Daimler said that it was studying them, and Chrysler had no immediate comment.
General Motors said in a statement that it was ''working with relevant authorities to understand the impact of the Chinese government's decision.'' G.M. added that it would ''seek a solution consistent with a constructive global trade environment, which we believe is important to both China and the U.S.''
G.M. is a leading producer of automobiles in China, through a series of joint ventures with Chinese partners. The company's statement said that imports from the United States represented ''less than half of 1 percent of its domestic production in China.''
By contrast, Chrysler's sales in China are solely imports. The company was not allocated any factories in China when Daimler dissolved its merger with Chrysler in 2007.
As a result, Chrysler's sales in China are tiny -- only 13,686 Jeeps, 10,970 Dodges and 284 Chryslers in the first 10 months of this year, according to LMC Automotive, a British consulting firm.
Bill Russo, a former Chrysler executive who oversaw the company's operations in China until 2008 and is now an industry consultant in Beijing, said in a telephone interview Wednesday evening that while some Chinese trade actions might benefit Chinese industries, it was unlikely that the latest move was done to help Chinese automakers.
Imported S.U.V.'s and cars cost so much more than Chinese models that ''people are not shopping these on price,'' Mr. Russo said. ''No local company makes a product even close.''
Imported models already cost much more in China compared with their home markets because of steep Chinese tariffs, value-added taxes and a system of sales taxes that range from 1 percent on fuel-sipping subcompacts to 40 percent on large sport utility vehicles and sports cars.
The Chinese Commerce Ministry's announcement on Wednesday was the latest in a series of zigzags on trade policy this autumn, as Chinese officials have struggled over how confrontational a stance to take now that the Obama administration has begun to challenge Chinese trade policies more aggressively.
Just three days ago, President Hu Jintao gave a conciliatory speech to observe China's W.T.O. anniversary. Mr. Hu said that China would further open up its international trade.
But last week, the Commerce Ministry strongly criticized a recent preliminary decision by the United States International Trade Commission, which concluded that imports of Chinese solar panels had hurt American solar panel manufacturers. That decision moves the United States one step closer to imposing antidumping and antisubsidy duties on Chinese solar panels early next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Imported Buick cars in China, covered with dust. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GRAY/REUTERS) (B1)
 New duties will mainly affect General Motors and Chrysler, and BMW and Daimler of Germany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); POULTRY (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (74%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



652 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: Beauty By The Bite

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
SUE DEVITT, the Australian makeup artist whose clients have included Sarah Jessica Parker, Jennifer Lopez and Keira Knightley, is known for her sumptuous eye shadows and seaweed-infused foundations. But in February, Ms. Devitt and Tanya Zuckerbrot, the official dietitian to the Miss Universe Organization, are scheduled to appear on QVC to introduce a new beauty product that you don't massage, smooth or brush onto your face. You eat it.
Set to retail for $38, the Beauty Booster, at the center of the women's new, partly ingestible io Beauty collection, is a burgundy liquid that comes in what appears to be an oversize nail-polish bottle topped with a chemistry dropper. Loaded with antioxidants and minerals and tasting of the sweet fruit that inspired it (Ms. Devitt said she noticed her skin was more luminous after snacking on goji berries, raspberries and wild blackberries at a friend's farm), the elixir can be drizzled over yogurt and into club soda. It can be taken alone, though Ms. Devitt said, naturally, that it is more potent if used in conjunction with io's topical eye, face and neck creams.
Why not just eat fruit or drink juice? 
''Juices have a ton of calories,'' Ms. Zuckerbrot said, noting that her product is sugar- and calorie-free. ''Who wants to sacrifice their behind for their face?''
The Booster is but the latest product in a new cornucopia of ingenious -- or ingeniously marketed -- cosmetics that are not slicked on like Noxzema but meant to be nibbled, swigged, sucked or muddled with ice.
Slathering on sunscreen might soon feel retro now that scientists have concocted the Imedeen Tan Optimizer capsule (temporarily out of stock in the United States) to help prevent sunburn. (In Brazil, there is also a Sunlover pill that promises to help those who take it get a tan.) Granola bars look passe next to Nimble, billed as the first nutrition bar to specifically nourish skin. And spraying on cologne seems positively Stone Age compared with sucking Deo Perfume Candy from Bulgaria, engineered to emit a rose fragrance through the pores of the skin.
The products claim to enhance hair, skin and nails with collagen, acai, lutein, reservatrol, goji berry, green tea, vitamins and other ingredients that sound as though they could whet the appetite of only Anthony Bourdain, like porcine placenta. A decade ago, such ingredients were found in the dusty aisles of health food stores. Today they can be found on the shelves of retailers high and low: Sephora, Nordstrom, drugstores, the corner deli.
Purportedly engineered to improve women's skin elasticity and moisture, Balance Bar's chocolate-flavored Nimble bars are coming to market in January (with yogurt orange swirl and peanut butter flavors already being tested in some markets). Frutels has come out with an acne fighter also based on that onetime skin nemesis, chocolate. You can wash these bonbons down with any number of so-called beautifying beverages: Votre Vu's SnapDragon Beauty Beverage, Crystal Light's Skin Essentials, Herbasway's Beauty Drink.
Vincent Borba, the Hollywood aesthetician who these days is better known as the guy palling around with the newly single Demi Moore, has created a cosmetics line for Walgreens that included his popular Skin Balance waters ($24.99 for 12) in four varieties: Age Defying, Firming, Clarifying, Replenishing. (He hopefully describes the collaboration as the ingestible equivalent of Missioni for Target. )
Unlike cosmetics whose edibility is meant to amuse -- Urban Decay's Marshmallow Sparkling Lickable Body Powder, Smashbox's Emulsion Lip Exfoliant, Dylan's Candy Bar Candy Tattoos -- this is more serious stuff. While the category, classified as nutricosmetics and ''functional foods'' by the cosmetics industry, has been hurt by the recession, demand is still expected to increase by about 6 percent a year to $8.5 billion by 2015, according to Freedonia Group, a market research company. Analysts at Zenith International, a food and drink consultancy, say the growth has been driven by celebrity culture and educated consumers seeking sophisticated ways to turn back the clock.
But do the products work? Many doctors say no (though others, like the dermatologists Dr. Fredric Brandt, Dr. Howard Murad and Dr. Nicholas Perricone, market supplements as part of their regimens). Good skin does not come from slickly marketed beauty drinks and foods, critics say, but from vegetables, whole foods and plain water. ''If you are adequately hydrated, skin looks moist and healthy,'' said Dr. Wahida Karmally, director of nutrition at the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research at Columbia. ''Water will carry the nutrients from foods to the body tissues and organs to keep them healthy.''
A reporter asked Dr. Karmally to review the ingredients in several new beauty foods and drinks. She questioned the research behind the products, noted that they have extracts that may cause an allergic reaction in some people and said that some were using gums to make their product viscous and fruit juice solids for color. Of Borba's Replenishing water with litchi she wrote in an e-mail, ''If you need to replenish, drink plain water or enjoy it with slices of lemon,'' describing litchis as ''delicious but not magical.'' She pointed out that the Nimble bar contains saturated fat.
The Food and Drug Administration does not substantiate the safety of cosmetic products and ingredients before they are marketed to consumers; the cosmetic companies are responsible for that. Manufacturers are not required to file data on ingredients or report cosmetic-related injuries to the Food and Drug Administration either (though they are encouraged to do so).
This may be why thus far these products have failed to catch on in the United States. So far, beauty foods and drinks have been most popular in Japan, where ''foods for specific health use'' legislation signals to consumers that such products have a seal of approval, according to analysts at Euromonitor International, a research company. Legions of people are also embracing nutricosmetics in China, where supplements have long been part of Chinese medicine. But while American consumers have swallowed the idea of vitamins (at least until recently, when two studies found that taking extra doses of vitamins can actually harm you), they are not as sure about having their wrinkle-reducer and eating it, too.
The United States market is 5 percent the size of the Japanese market, according to Euromonitor analysts. Some big brands, like Mars and Nestle, were unable to make their edible beauty products stick here. Nestle introduced the beauty drink Glowelle ($7 a bottle) in 2008, then pulled it from the market this year. (A company spokeswoman declined to comment about whether the drink would be reintroduced.)
But this has not fazed the makers of the palm-size Nimble bar, with a suggested retail price of $1.69. The 120-calorie bar, in a white, pink and purple wrapper, claims to be a boon to both nutrition and skin tone.
''This is the first bar with a beauty bonus,'' said Erin Lifeso, director of marketing for Balance Bar.
Peter Wilson, president and chief executive of Balance Bar, pointed out that Nimble ''slips nicely into a clutch or a purse'' and that women could enjoy it before a night out, ''so they don't overeat at a party.''
Mr. Borba, a nutricosmetics pioneer, called from the BevNET conference in Santa Monica, Calif., where health and wellness are the hot trend in beverages. His beauty waters have been seen in the hands of Mila Kunis, Paris Hilton, Adrian Grenier and other boldface names. Today his edible empire includes Slimming Chocolate Chews ($19.99), Clear Skin Capsules ($19.99) and Aqua-less Crystallines Antioxidant Drink Mix ($1.99 each). Mr. Borba said he is also creating new edible collections for two major retailers that he declined to name because of proceeding negotiations.
For Norma Kamali, the designer who is in her 60s but looks remarkably younger, edible beauty is simpler. ''I have been using olive oil all my life,'' she said in an e-mail while on a business trip. ''My mother was Lebanese, my father Basque. Olive oil was part of our lives and not just on the table. My mother knew it was good for so many things so I was indoctrinated quite early.''
Ms. Kamali, whose clothes have been worn by women from Farrah Fawcett to Lady Gaga, sells olive oil, which she calls ''liquid gold,'' for $45 for 200 milliliters in her West 56th street store amid her iconic parachute clothes and swimwear, and organizes oil tastings. She explained that she ingests and applies olive oil to reap various benefits. It is ideal for massage and stress relief, she said. And you can brush your teeth with olive oil and cinnamon to clean and remove bacteria. Use olive oil liniments for rashes and burns, she advised, and take a tablespoon or more a day to stay regular.
''Consuming olive oil is like having a lube for your body,'' Ms. Kamali said. ''You are like a well-oiled machine when you consume olive oil.''
This suggestion would probably go over well with Dr. Karmally of Columbia. Borba's Skin Balance Gummi Bears ($14.99), with their promise of ''gorgeous skin and anti-aging power,'' are among the most popular edible beauty products sold by Amazon, yet as she put it: ''I would rather eat a tomato salad with slivers of almonds and a refreshing glass of iced tea.''
But for many, the possibilities of edible beauty have only just begun. Mr. Borba told of how back in 2004 his Skin Balance waters -- now part of the more than $1.4 billion beauty drinks business, according to Zenith International -- were thought to be a fad.
''Everyone looked at me like I had a screw loose,'' he said, before likening himself to Howard Hughes. ''Now it's the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (E1)
OIL RICH: Norma Kamali swears by (and sells) olive oil, along with pressed juices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
YUMMY: From top right, io Beauty Booster
Deo, which perfumes through the pores
and Votre Vu's SnapDragon Beauty Beverage. Below, Borba, to drink or chew. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM P. O'DONNELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E3) DRAWING (DRAWING BY POLLY BECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (90%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); COSMETICS (90%); NUTRITION (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (76%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); FOOD ADDITIVES (74%); FUNCTIONAL FOODS (74%); CONFECTIONERY (74%); SNACK FOODS (73%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (69%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (66%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (73%); KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (73%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



653 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Shifting Tactics, Romney Attacks Surging Gingrich

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY, MICHAEL BARBARO and ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
Mitt Romney, his presidential aspirations suddenly endangered by Newt Gingrich's rapid resurgence, is employing aggressive new arguments in an effort to disqualify Mr. Gingrich as a credible choice to Republicans, calling him ''zany'' in an interview on Wednesday and questioning his commitment to free enterprise.
But in an acknowledgment that he might not be able to reverse Mr. Gingrich's momentum quickly, Mr. Romney and his team are bracing for a far rougher slog through the early Republican nominating contests than they had envisioned even a few weeks ago and preparing for months of a state-by-state, delegate-by-delegate fight.
The Romney campaign and its allies are unsure whether the attacks on Mr. Gingrich's stability, temperament and worldview will take hold before the voting begins. Mr. Romney and some of his aides and advisers suggest that their revised campaign strategy will rely on advantages in organization and financing for the long run while moving quickly in the short term to turn Mr. Gingrich's own words against him. 
Mr. Romney is seeking to paint Mr. Gingrich as ''an unreliable conservative'' on issues like climate change. And he is seizing on a remark Mr. Gingrich made this week, condemning Mr. Romney for profiting from layoffs and corporate restructuring he oversaw in his years running Bain Capital, that many conservative commentators said sounded like a Democratic antibusiness refrain.
Mr. Romney said voters should take a closer look at Mr. Gingrich's history of policy ideas.
''Zany is not what we need in a president,'' Mr. Romney said. ''Zany is great in a campaign. It's great on talk radio. It's great in print, it makes for fun reading, but in terms of a president, we need a leader, and a leader needs to be someone who can bring Americans together.''
Supporters, advisers and donors to Mr. Romney acknowledge a deep sense of concern. Mr. Romney finds himself in the vexing position of being perceived in many polls as the strongest Republican candidate to challenge President Obama by being able to attract moderates and independents, but facing an increasingly difficult battle for the Republican nomination because of resistance to his candidacy among conservatives.
Mr. Romney said he would ''keep on battling'' if he fell short in the first contests in Iowa, where he has stepped up his efforts in recent weeks, and New Hampshire, which had always seemed to be a secure launching pad for him but now seems to be in play.
His aides are vigorously organizing in Florida, where absentee voting begins right after the New Year, and in states far down the line, to build a backup plan when the nominating battle becomes a delegate fight.
When asked what he would do if he failed to slow Mr. Gingrich or other Republican rivals in the early balloting, Mr. Romney said, ''Make sure my message is as clear as it can possibly be and wait for other individuals who might be ahead of me to suffer the agonizing reappraisal and rude awakening.''
As the Republican candidates gather for their final debate of the year on Thursday night in Iowa, longtime supporters of Mr. Romney are questioning whether he can blunt Mr. Gingrich's rise before the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary.
''I would feel much better about the outcome of this campaign if the primary were three months off rather than three weeks away,'' said Sam Fox, a co-chairman of the Romney finance team in Missouri and an ambassador to Belgium under President George W. Bush. He said he believed Mr. Romney would ultimately prevail, yet for now, ''I don't think there is much that they can do.''
Mr. Romney, whose aides have been debating the wisdom of keeping him cloistered from news media interviews and aggressive campaigning for much of the year, has abruptly shifted course. He has conducted nearly as many interviews this week, including with The New York Times, as he has since declaring his candidacy in June.
He took a break from a whirlwind day of fund-raising in Manhattan on Wednesday, which stretched from breakfast to dinner, to discuss his campaign. As Mr. Romney took a seat in a suite at the Regency hotel on Park Avenue, he was smiling and upbeat. His tone did not convey the worry that is etched on the faces of many of his advisers, saying that his second presidential bid had made him wiser, calmer and less reliant on winning Iowa and New Hampshire.
''Those early states continue to shout, they're powerful, they have a big impact, but the later states have a lot of delegates,'' said Mr. Romney, who has studied the epic Democratic primary fight between Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. He added, ''People are not out until they've actually closed the doors and turned off the lights.''
Mr. Romney, whose 15 years of buying and selling companies at Bain Capital has at times proved a thorny credential, now plans to embrace that career aggressively as he seeks to portray Mr. Gingrich as ignorant about the most pressing issue in the race: the economy.
Pushing back on the claims earlier this week by Mr. Gingrich that he should return profits from Bain, Mr. Romney framed it as a liberal-minded attack on the capitalist system itself -- a line of attack that aides said would intensify and sharpen in the coming days.
Mr. Romney also plans to embrace his time at Bain to contrast his role in the private sector with that of Mr. Gingrich, who profited from consulting deals with, among other companies, Freddie Mac, the housing-finance giant whose meltdown in the mortgage crisis has cost taxpayers billions of dollars.
''He lashes out at me and lashes out at the free enterprise system,'' Mr. Romney said.
In the interview, Mr. Romney laid out his argument against Mr. Gingrich in a methodical, businesslike manner, his voice steady and calm, unlike his posture during some of the televised debates when he has gotten rattled or agitated.
''He's a great historian,'' Mr. Romney said of Mr. Gingrich. ''If we need a historian leading the country, I'm sure people would find that attractive. I actually think you need someone who actually understands the economy leading the country.''
Signs of trouble emerged for Mr. Romney in New Hampshire on Nov. 18, the day a poll in The New Hampshire Journal showed for the first time that Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich were essentially tied, defying months of data that had suggested Mr. Romney's lead in the state was unassailable. His aides, who had considered the state a political firewall, were suddenly spooked, said two people who have advised the campaign.
The campaign dug into the numbers, and found what they considered flaws, but also unmistakable evidence of an ascent by Mr. Gingrich. A person who has advised Mr. Romney in the past said, ''That rattled them.''
The Romney campaign leapt into action, rolling out its biggest endorsement in the state two days later: Senator Kelly Ayotte, a freshman Republican and darling of New Hampshire conservatives -- the kind of news-making event that campaigns typically reserve for a few days before voting begins.
By early December, the Romney camp, which prides itself on its cool unflappability, appeared to be fretting over Mr. Gingrich's rise and encouraging the news media to focus on his record.
Stuart Stevens, a Romney strategist, took out his Kindle after the debate last Saturday night at Drake University in Des Moines. He drew the attention of reporters to the opening passages of a book about Mr. Gingrich called ''Tell Newt to Shut Up,'' which features the former House speaker sobbing as he described the toll that charges of ethics violations had taken on his family.
''Have you read this?'' Mr. Stevens asked, offering a rousing endorsement. ''I'd blurb it.''
Mr. Romney, as he prepared for the debate on Thursday and an interview on ''Fox News Sunday,'' his first appearance of the year on a Sunday television public affairs program, said he did not think his campaign made a mistake taking a cautious approach for nearly all of 2011.
''Just the idea of trying to be a front-runner for a year would be an extraordinarily unwise course in my view,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I was building support, honing my message, raising the funds necessary to run a campaign. The limelight can make people get tired and people can get bored with it.''
At this point, the campaign is seizing support wherever it can find it, including accepting the endorsement of Christine O'Donnell, an unsuccessful Republican candidate for the Senate last year in Delaware, who had introduced herself to the political scene by saying, ''I am not a witch.''
''Hey, if Christine O'Donnell supports Mitt Romney, this guy has the kind of principles Tea Partiers can be happy with,'' Mr. Romney said with a smile.
When asked about other endorsements he was seeking, he said: ''Everybody! Everybody!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Republican hopeful Mitt Romney during an interview on Wednesday in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (65%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (65%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



654 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Brinkmanship Again at Fore In the Capitol

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Their poll numbers sinking, their constituents badly bruised by economic hardship and with millions of American workers about to get a sudden and unexpected tax increase, what are members of Congress discussing?
Shutting down the government. Again.
For the third time in a year, the divided 112th Congress is dancing on the edge of catastrophe, locked in a bitter partisan battle over fiscal measures, with unrelated policy debates clinging to the side. 
Republicans and Democrats do not agree on how to pay for something that both sides claim to want -- extension of a payroll tax holiday for almost every worker -- and have until the end of the year to work it out or see the tax go up, something that most economists say would further damage the nation's fragile economic health by taking money out of consumers' pockets.
Now tied to this measure is a plan to keep the government financed through the rest of the fiscal year, because Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, has indicated that he will not permit a vote on the huge spending measure until Republican and Democrats can come together on the payroll tax bill, which would also include an extension of unemployment benefits.
If an agreement on the spending bill does not come by midnight Friday, the government will be unable to pay its bills unless Congress passes yet another stop-gap financing bill to buy time, something the White House indicated late Wednesday night that it would prefer.
Leaders of both parties say they are determined to avoid a pre-Christmas shutdown, raising the possibility that Congress may just pass a short-term bill to keep the government open and kick the whole payroll tax and spending mess into next year.
The ugly dynamic mirrors the battles of last spring, when the government came within a whisker of shutting down over a spending fight, and last summer, when the nation almost defaulted on its debt obligations when Congress fought over raising the debt ceiling.
Now, with Congress entering a winter of discontent, each side expressed outrage -- much of it manufactured -- on Wednesday and blamed the other side for the potential debacle looming at the end of the week.
After meeting privately with President Obama on Wednesday, Senate Democrats began to cobble together a new deal to extend the payroll tax without using a surcharge on incomes over $1 million, something Republicans detest. They hope the new measure will have legs in both chambers, but Mr. Obama's press office said Wednesday that the president would like Congress to pass a short-term financing measure, known as a continuing resolution, for now.
At the same time, House Republicans, who have already passed a payroll tax extension that Senate Democrats oppose, pondered putting their own spending bill on the floor and trying to pass it, allowing them to leave town and force the Senate either to take or leave the House measure. But they seemed to be short of the necessary votes to execute that tactic.
The last-minute wrangling is the predictable outgrowth of the failure last month of the special Congressional committee assigned to find $1.2 trillion in deficit savings. The panel was supposed to take care of the payroll tax holiday, the extension of unemployment issues and numerous other things, but its collapse left the fate of those issues and others up in the air.
The threat of the potential December shutdown is even more bizarre than the previous two near-misses, because it centers on the Republicans' reluctance to extend a tax cut to middle-class workers and relatively minor issues over a spending bill that each side was tantalizingly close to signing off on.
This latest in a series of high-profile, last-minute fights, all in a single year, underscores that the 112th Congress has no modern antecedent for what many see as its unusual -- and potentially dangerous -- brinkmanship.
''This whole year has been historic in its patterns,'' said Thomas E. Mann, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''They always get work done at the end of sessions, they always put things off until they have to do them, but it's the hostage taking and recklessness of it all that is so unusual.''
The day began with Mr. Reid sparring with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, on the Senate floor, with Mr. Reid expressing bafflement over Mr. McConnell's refusal to let the Senate vote on the House payroll tax bill that passed earlier in the week.
Mr. Reid wants to quickly vote the bill down because while it would extend a cut in Social Security payroll taxes for 160 million workers, it also eases the way for an oil pipeline opposed by environmental groups, blocks certain air pollution rules, freezes the pay of many federal employees through 2013, increases some Medicare premiums, and greatly reduces unemployment benefits and adds a host of new rules for receiving them.
Mr. McConnell said he would not permit a quick vote on the measure until the spending agreement was passed in the Senate.
For their part, Senate Democratic leaders met with President Obama at the White House and resolved to prepare a new offer that would exclude their earlier plan to pay for the payroll tax holiday with a surcharge on incomes over $1 million, seeking savings instead from a variety of federal programs, with many of the cuts culled from the failed bipartisan committee's list of things both sides agree upon.
As talk of another short-term spending agreement circulated, Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, said such a plan was not ideal but could be employed if a shutdown loomed.
Given the ''dysfunctionality'' that Congress has demonstrated this year, Mr. Carney added, it would be hard to ''suggest that this Congress is capable of achieving an ideal.''
At the House, Speaker John A. Boehner said the ball was in the Senate's court, even as he suggested that his chamber might pass its own spending bill based on a bipartisan agreement that was near completion, in spite of some Democratic concerns about provisions that would limit family planning for women in the District of Columbia and restrict visits to Cuba by Cuban-Americans.
''There is no reason for it to be held hostage to try to give one side leverage,'' Mr. Boehner said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker John A. Boehner said Wednesday that there was no reason a spending bill should be held hostage by one side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); CHRISTMAS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



655 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: The Right Way to Put Kids to Work

BYLINE: By SAMUEL J. REDMAN. 
Samuel J. Redman is a historian in the Regional Oral History Office of the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
Berkeley, Calif.
NEWT GINGRICH caused controversy recently with his unusual suggestion that schools ''ought to get rid of the unionized janitors, have one master janitor and pay local students to take care of the school. The kids would actually do work, they would have cash, they'd have pride in the schools, they'd begin the process of rising.''
While the notion that unionized school janitors are draining our economy is woefully misguided, Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination, is onto something when he says we should find ways to hire unemployed young people to maintain our educational infrastructure. And we can -- by reviving the National Youth Administration. 
Founded in 1935, the N.Y.A. aided over four million people between the ages of 16 and 25 in the midst of the Depression, providing desperately needed stipends to students while also working to improve and maintain the infrastructure of places like schools, universities and museums. High schools around the nation hired students to help maintain school grounds and athletic fields -- not unlike Mr. Gingrich's proposal. Other students found temporary work at museums, earning money while helping preserve and organize priceless collections of artifacts. These jobs were not terribly glamorous -- some were downright tedious -- but in the climate of the Great Depression, students and other underemployed youths were grateful for the steady pay.
Recent oral histories collected by the Regional Oral History Office of the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley, throw light on the practical difference the N.Y.A. made in the lives of those it enrolled. Jack W. Rosston, for instance, told of working on campus at Berkeley through an N.Y.A. program. ''For my freshman year, I got $10 a month,'' he explained. ''That paid for my transportation to Berkeley from San Francisco.''
Once in Berkeley from his home across the bay, Mr. Rosston was able to attend classes and work part time at other jobs around the campus -- allowing him to complete his undergraduate degree. He eventually enrolled in business school at Stanford and went on to serve as the alumni representative to the board of regents at the University of California, a role he relished for giving him the opportunity to give back to his alma mater.
Across the country, at Columbia University, Bernard A. Weisberger was working his way through college in similar fashion. Jobs were very hard to find, but he was eventually recruited to be a research assistant by a professor on campus who had received funding through the N.Y.A. Mr. Weisberger had a knack for picking up foreign languages, and on this basis he was offered work by other faculty members who were similarly provided with federal funding. Eventually, he would leverage those skills in the Army, where he was selected to study Japanese in a facility near the newly constructed Pentagon. Within months, he found himself translating intercepted Japanese communications in the Pacific theater. Mr. Weisberger went on to become an accomplished historian, writing several books and advising the filmmaker Ken Burns.
Leon W. Mason also worked for the N.Y.A., but during high school, helping to maintain the athletic fields adjacent to his school. ''I would do the cleaning up myself,'' he said. ''Nobody was supervising. You just took it for granted that I was doing what I was supposed to because the coaches would see that, and the school would see that I was doing my job.'' Afterward, Mr. Mason worked for another New Deal agency -- the Civilian Conservation Corps. Alongside crews of young men from around the country, he helped put out forest fires in California. He would then find work, during World War II, in the rapidly expanding shipyard industry in the Bay Area; before long, Mr. Mason was drafted into the Navy construction battalions (nicknamed Seabees) to build airstrips in the Pacific.
The stories of Mr. Rosston, Mr. Weisberger and Mr. Mason demonstrate that these programs did not represent mere government handouts. Instead, the N.Y.A. offered young people a variety of opportunities while also providing them with the income to pay for basic necessities and further training and education. The impact of the program on the lives of these individuals may not have seemed critical at the time, but the benefit of hindsight points to the long-range significance of the public investment. When I listen to these and many other stories, these New Deal era programs sound less like a gargantuan socialist conspiracy and much more like a democratizing force in our society.
While the federal government debates extensive cuts and the elimination of numerous programs, it might well consider the successes of the National Youth Administration. Until its elimination in 1943 -- when the country's wartime economy brought unemployment down and made the N.Y.A. appear less necessary -- the program succeeded in employing and training young people while serving as an economic bridge as they continued their education.
In an era defined by ballooning levels of student debt and heightened levels of unemployment among young people (including recent college graduates), a program modeled on the N.Y.A., employing a broad and diverse array of underemployed high school and college youths, would not only preserve our infrastructure -- our school grounds, museums and urban parks -- but throw a lifeline to the country's young. Mr. Gingrich's proposal, by contrast, fails to capture the inspiration and promise of the N.Y.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); HISTORY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (67%); LIBRARIES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (55%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



656 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Obama Observes End of Iraq War

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
FORT BRAGG, N.C. -- President Obama observed the end of the war in Iraq on Wednesday before an audience of those who fought in it, telling a crowd of returning war veterans that the nearly nine years of conflict in Iraq, a war now indelibly imprinted on the national psyche, had come to a close.
''As your commander in chief, and on behalf of a grateful nation, I'm proud to finally say these two words,'' Mr. Obama told a crowded hangar at this famed North Carolina army base that is home to the 82nd Airborne Division: ''Welcome home.''
Calling it a ''historic moment,'' Mr. Obama, who has over the years of his presidency had his ups and down with his own military leaders, if not the enlisted men and women, infused his remarks with far more accolades for the military than the usual few that he dispenses to local politicians at the beginning of most of his standard speeches. 
This time, he thanked the ''legendary'' 82nd Airborne Division. He thanked senior enlisted leaders. And the Sky Dragons of the 18th Airborne Corps. And the Special Operations Forces. And military families. In fact, the president wrapped himself in all of the storied patriotism and history of the country's armed forces, congratulating the assembled troops for the job they did in Iraq -- a war which he himself never approved.
It was a tough balance to strike. Mr. Obama had to speak of legendary battles in places like Falluja without referencing the weapons of mass destruction that were never found; he noted the sectarian violence without bringing up the years of fear that gripped the United States and the rest of the world back in 2004, 2005 and 2006, when it looked as if the American invasion of Iraq would engulf an already volatile region.
''We remember the early days -- the American units that streaked across the sands and skies of Iraq,'' Mr. Obama said. ''In battles from Nasiriya to Karbala to Baghdad, American troops broke the back of a brutal dictator in less than a month.''
And yet, Mr. Obama said, ''we know too well the heavy costs'' of the Iraq War: ''Nearly 4,500 Americans have made the ultimate sacrifice, including 202 fallen heroes from here at Fort Bragg. 202.''
The speech was the latest in a series of public appearances orchestrated by the White House to signal the end of the conflict and to drive home the point that Mr. Obama fulfilled one of his 2008 presidential campaign promises. At times somber, at times ebullient -- there were plenty of ''Hooahs'' during his speech -- the president tried to project an understanding of what the people, who have seen their family members go off to fight a war that most Americans came to oppose, have been through.
''There have been missed birthday parties and graduations,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There are bills to pay and jobs that have to be juggled with picking up the kids. For every soldier that goes on patrol, there are the husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, sons and daughters praying that they come back.''
Mr. Obama made the trip to Fort Bragg, his first since taking office, as both the commander in chief who has brought soldiers home and as a presidential candidate. He brought along his wife, Michelle, who has been working with veterans' families since Mr. Obama took office. At times, the visit seemed like a campaign swing.
While he eschewed any of the usual criticism of Republicans and never even mentioned the names of either of the front-runners in the Republican primaries, Newt Gingrich or Mitt Romney, Mr. Obama spent a long 20 minutes after his speech pressing the flesh. He plunged deep into the crowd of army fatigues and burgundy berets -- signifying that soldiers are attached to air-borne units -- seeming determined to shake hands with each and everyone there.
Mr. Obama's campaign advisers see North Carolina, a traditionally red state that Mr. Obama unexpectedly won in 2008, as a potential key to the president's re-election path.But Fort Bragg and neighboring Fayetteville, with its large African-American population full of veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan, will need to join urban areas like Charlotte, Greensboro and Raleigh-Durham in turning out for Mr. Obama if the president is to have a chance of repeating that unlikely victory next year.
On Tuesday, Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, presented reporters with a slide show mapping out several Obama pathways to victory next year. One crucial path, he said, included winning North Carolina and Virginia -- both states that John Kerry lost in 2004, but that Mr. Obama won in 2008. Already, the Obama campaign has opened up operations in North Carolina, and it is banking on the state's changed demographics, including an influx of young, college-educated people. The Obama campaign is also hoping for high turnout among African-Americans, who make up 22 percent of the state's population and 41 percent of Fayetteville's population.
Charlotte will host the Democratic National Convention next September. Meanwhile, Mitt Romney has already taken out television advertisements here in North Carolina, including one that ran this week, targeting Mr. Obama's handling of the economy.
Mr. Obama has been working hard to get credit for ending the Iraq war, a promise that was a centerpiece of his 2008 campaign. But it remains to be seen whether his successful completion of his promise to end the war will have much resonance next year, as the country continues to struggle through the fragile economic recovery.
Fort Bragg is home to a variety of troops, including the Army Special Operations, the 18th Airborne Corps and the 82nd Airborne Division. Fort Bragg soldiers have been in the thick of the fighting in the Iraqi theater from Day 1 of the American invasion in 2003.
''For all of the challenges that our nation faces, you remind us that there's nothing that we Americans can't do when we stick together,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's why the United States military is the most respected institution in our land. It's why you, the 9/11 generation, have earned your place in history.''
He concluded with ''I am proud of you.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about a speech by President Obama to mark the end of the Iraq war misstated the significance of the burgundy berets worn by some soldiers who attended the event in Fort Bragg, N.C. The burgundy berets signify that soldiers are attached to air-borne units, not simply that they are on active duty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, at times somber, at times ebullient, spoke on Wednesday at a hangar at Fort Bragg, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (79%); MILITARY BASES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); VETERANS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); FAMILY (65%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011



657 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Floating Incubator For Start-Ups

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

 BODY:
Technology gurus have long lamented how hard it is for foreign talent to secure American visas and create start-ups here. As Congress spins its wheels with endless debate over immigration, an ambitious venture based in Sunnyvale, Calif., is trying to chart a more productive course aboard a 600-foot boat, or possibly a barge.
That's the idea behind Blueseed, which aims to create a visa-free, floating incubator for international entrepreneurs off the California coast near Silicon Valley. 
Blueseed's co-founders, Max Marty, 27, and Dario Mutabdzija, 31, envision a seaworthy, 1,000-passenger hothouse for entrepreneurs from around the world, moored 12 nautical miles offshore - just outside California's territorial waters - with enough appealing amenities to make it a ''Googleplex of the Sea.'' Passengers could take a day trip by ferry to the mainland on temporary tourist or business visas, returning to sleep in cabins that would rent for $1,200 to $3,000 a month.
''Blueseed is a way to connect Silicon Valley with the amazing founders and entrepreneurs out around the world,'' Mr. Marty said. ''Existing visa policies were designed for a different era. The nature of business has changed, and what's lacking now is an avenue for people to be able to come in and create great companies.''
Peter Thiel, a co-founder of PayPal and prominent venture capitalist, signed on recently as an investor in Blueseed. The company is currently seeking additional investors to raise a total of $500,000 in seed capital.
''Tech innovation drives economic growth, and we need more of both,'' Mr. Thiel elaborated in a written statement for this blog. ''Many innovative people have a really hard time getting visas, and Blueseed will help bring more innovation to California with a solution that is itself as innovative as it is clever.''
Mr. Thiel, a staunch libertarian, made a splash in August by contributing $1.25 million to the Seasteading Institute, a Sunnyvale nonprofit founded by Patri Friedman (grandson of Milton Friedman, the economist) that explores the creation of autonomous ocean colonies. He declined through a spokesman to say how much he had invested in Blueseed.
Mr. Marty and Mr. Mutabdzija first met as directors of business and legal strategy at the Seasteading Institute. They estimate that their current project could end up costing $15 million, if they charter a vessel, to $40 million, if they buy one. They hope - perhaps optimistically - to have it afloat in 2013.
Past efforts to ease immigration restrictions for entrepreneurs have seemed less the stuff of science fiction. In February 2010, Senators John Kerry and Richard Lugar introduced the first version of the Start-Up Visa Act, which would create a path to citizenship for immigrant entrepreneurs who meet benchmarks for raising capital and creating jobs. Though the bill has since been reintroduced, it hasn't made any progress.
Champions of both Blueseed and the Start-Up Visa Act are quick to point out that immigrants were founders of more than half of Silicon Valley's start-ups between 1995 and 2005, according to Duke University research. They add that, without strivers from abroad like Sergey Brin and Vinod Khosla, companies like Google and Sun Microsystems would not be part of America's tech ecosystem. (Mr. Marty's parents are both Cuban immigrants and entrepreneurs; Mr. Mutabdzija was born in Sarajevo.)
For Blueseed's founders, the first hurdle will be convincing potential investors that their vision is not as far-fetched as it might seem. They believe it is a matter of cobbling together best practices from well-explored, less exotic territory - maritime engineering, international law - to create great work-live-play spaces for tech dreamers. Foreign entrepreneurs, they say, are hoping for the chance to marinate in Silicon Valley, and more than 60 of them have expressed interest in the project through an online survey.
''I and many others are suffering over the situation that we cannot go to America to be around these people,'' said Nico Schweinzer, a serial entrepreneur reached by Skype in Graz, Austria, where he created JobGuru, an employment site, and is building Oracly, a service that lets shoppers scan product bar codes with smartphones to receive short reviews. ''For me, it's not so much about the investors, but more about being where you can exchange ideas and get skilled people for your projects.
''Blueseed is a fantastic idea,'' he added. ''You could go there and be very close to the mecca of the tech scene.''
What do you think?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); FERRIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



658 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich's Foreign Policy Words Summon the Cold War, but Enemy Is Iran

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
Should Newt Gingrich become president, his foreign policy vision might remind many people of the cold war. But this time the threat would be from a nuclear-armed Iran rather than the Soviet Union.
Mr. Gingrich, who is fond of big overarching ideas, has yet to give a major foreign policy speech, but he has staked out positions while campaigning that suggest a nascent Gingrich Doctrine, one that looks to decades of struggle against radical Islam.
Even as President Obama winds down American commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. Gingrich is warning of a protracted ideological struggle -- and perhaps military intervention in Iran -- as part of a battle of ideas in the Muslim world.
The United States is ''about where we were in 1946'' up against the Soviet Union, he said recently. 
And just as during the cold war, Mr. Gingrich frames the challenges in stark terms that can have an apocalyptic ring, as when he described Palestinians as an ''invented'' people whose leadership seeks the destruction of Israel.
The fierceness of Mr. Gingrich's language, which has struck a chord with the Republican rank and file and fueled his rise to the top of the polls, also raises questions about the temperament he would bring to the White House when dealing with allies and adversaries.
Mitt Romney, contrasting his own disposition as one of ''sobriety, care, stability,'' accused Mr. Gingrich recently of being ''a bomb-thrower,'' rhetorically and perhaps literally, and in an interview Wednesday with The New York Times he sharpened that criticism, saying, ''Zany is not what we need in a president.''
Those remarks echo the critiques of Barry Goldwater, the 1964 Republican presidential candidate, that portrayed him as an unstable finger on the nuclear button.
Mr. Gingrich defended himself as willing to speak the unvarnished truth about the enemies of American values, and he invoked the precedent of Ronald Reagan, ''who went around his entire national security apparatus,'' to call the Soviet Union bluntly an ''evil empire.''
''I will tell the truth,'' Mr. Gingrich said Saturday at a debate in Iowa, ''even if it causes some confusion sometimes with the timid.''
Earlier in the nominating race it seemed that the Tea Party, with its call to eliminate foreign aid, might nudge Republicans in a more isolationist direction. But the emergence of Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich as the top candidates suggests the resurgence of neoconservative thinking, with its staunch support of Israel and unilateralist impulses abroad.
''It's very clear the speaker thinks of this as a long ideological struggle, a defining battle,'' said Ilan I. Berman, a vice president of the American Foreign Policy Council, whom Mr. Gingrich recently named one of 11 national security advisers.
But critics said the cold war analogy was simplistic. Daniel W. Drezner, a professor of international politics at Tufts University, said that in the last Republican debate, Mr. Gingrich hyperbolically overstated the threat from Iran, which has yet to acquire a nuclear weapon, by using the phrase ''if we do survive'' in discussing Iran's intentions.
''The Soviet Union was a much more powerful and bigger existential threat to the U.S. than anything the Middle East can muster now,'' Dr. Drezner said. ''I would describe this as classic shallow Big Think.''
In a two-candidate debate between Mr. Gingrich and Jon M. Huntsman Jr. in New Hampshire this week, Mr. Gingrich said Iran's quest for a nuclear weapon posed a direct threat to Israel and -- if a weapon were transferred to terrorists -- to the United States.
''We are not going to tolerate an Iranian nuclear weapon,'' he said. ''This is the biggest national security threat of the next 10 years.''
He painted a chain of events in which an Israeli prime minister asked an American president for help with a conventional military invasion of Iran so that Israel would not have to use its nuclear arsenal to defend itself. Mr. Gingrich implied that he would go along. ''What I won't do is allow Israel to be threatened with another Holocaust,'' he said. ''This is a not-very-far-down-the-road decision.''
Bombing Iranian nuclear sites, as some suggest, is ''a fantasy,'' he said, because many are underground. Instead, the United States must seek ''regime change'' in Tehran.
He suggested ''serious economic steps, serious political and psychological and diplomatic steps,'' including an embargo on imported gasoline.
One reason Republican candidates are devoting so much attention to Iran and Israel is that Mr. Obama is not perceived as vulnerable in other parts of his foreign policy record. Osama bin Laden and the Libyan dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi have been killed, and the president recently returned from an Asian trip that expanded trade and the American military footprint in the region.
But despite American-led sanctions, a recent report by the United Nations' nuclear watchdog agency found that Iran was secretly engaged in behaviors that suggested that it was seeking to construct a nuclear weapon.
The Obama administration argues that it has succeeded in getting Russia on board with international sanctions against Iran, and it has secured for Israel the largest security package ever.
On the stump, Mr. Gingrich often speaks of how the cold war was won in part by the soft power of propaganda, a battle of ideas rather than arms.
He and his wife, Callista, screen a documentary film they made about Pope John Paul II, which makes the case that his 1979 visit to Poland led to the collapse of communism by inspiring the Solidarity labor movement.
Mr. Gingrich similarly credits President Reagan's muscular ''tear down this wall'' rhetoric with helping to end the cold war. He invoked it to justify his blunt statements about Palestinians last week, which some analysts interpreted as a repudiation of long-held American and Israeli policy in favor of a two-state solution. Mr. Gingrich's campaign later clarified that he accepted a future Palestinian state.
Richard Williamson, a Romney adviser who was a foreign policy official in the Reagan administration, disputed Mr. Gingrich's donning of the Reagan mantle.
''You never saw Ronald Reagan use that kind of ad hominem and those kind of words,'' he said. ''His use of 'evil empire' and 'tear down this wall' was part of a consistent pattern over 20 years of how he thought we had to address our competition with a totalitarian communist state that wanted world domination. He wasn't calling people names.''
Republican Debate: WHEN Thursday at 9 p.m. Eastern time WHERE Sioux City Convention Center in Sioux City, Iowa PARTICIPANTS Michele Bachmann, Newt Gingrich, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Ron Paul, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum SPONSORS Fox News and the Republican Party of Iowa TV Fox ON THE WEB Live blogging and analysis: nytimes.com/politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); COLD WAR (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); RELIGION (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



659 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Where Is the Volcker Rule?

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Well-thought-out rules can be undercut by unenthusiastic enforcement, an economist writes about the Volcker Rule. 

 BODY:
Three years ago, a financial crisis threatened to bring down the United States economy and to spread economic disaster around the world. How far have we come in preventing any kind of recurrence? And will the much-discussed Volcker Rule - attempting to limit the risks that big banks can take - play a positive role as we move forward?
Bad loans were the primary cause of the 2007-8 financial debacle. When the full extent of the problems with those loans became apparent, there was a sharp fall in the values of all securities that had been constructed based on the underlying mortgages - and a collapse in the value of related bets that had been made using derivatives.
The damage to the economy became huge because these losses were not dispersed throughout the economy or around the world. Rather, many of the so-called toxic assets were held by the country's largest banks. Financial institutions that used to lend to consumers and businesses had instead become drawn into various forms of gambling on the booming mortgage market (as well as on commodities, equities and all kinds of derivatives). "Wall Street gets the upside and society gets the downside" was the operating principle.
And what a downside that proved to be.

Henry M. Paulson Jr., Treasury secretary at the time, said the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, was needed to buy those troubled assets from the banks. But this quickly proved unwieldy, so TARP pumped roughly half a trillion dollars into bank equity. The Federal Reserve backed this up with an enormous amount of liquidity through more than 21,000 transactions.
The additional government debt as a direct result of this finance-induced deep recession is estimated by the Congressional Budget Office at around 50 percent of gross domestic product, roughly $7 trillion.
These are staggering numbers. And this system of big banks taking outsize risks, failing and imposing huge damage on the rest of us has to stop. This ball is now firmly in the regulators' court.
Whatever your broader issues with the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, one point about legislative intent in this law is clear: The regulators have the authority to cut banks down to size and return them to their historical role of intermediary between savers and borrowers.
As for size, the regulators have long ignored the existing guidelines and allowed the biggest banks to get bigger. We need to go in the opposite direction, and that includes cutting down to size the private megabanks, as well as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It also means taking advantage of the resolution authority and all associated provisions that Sheila Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, worked so hard to put into the Dodd-Frank Act.
As Jon Huntsman is arguing on the Republican campaign trail, too-big-to-fail banks simply need to be forced to break themselves up.
But we also need to make the megabanks less likely to fail. The easiest way to do that would be to require banks to have enough common equity to absorb losses.
But the bankers have pushed back hard, with Jamie Dimon, head of JPMorgan Chase, leading the way with statements like this on capital requirements, which are known loosely as the Basel Accords: "I'm very close to thinking the United States shouldn't be in Basel any more. I would not have agreed to rules that are blatantly anti-American."
Dan Tarullo, responsible for this issue on the Federal Reserve Board, seems to support the idea of requiring significantly more equity in big banks, perhaps moving in the direction recommended by Anat Admati and her colleagues. But Mr. Tarullo appears to have lost that battle for now.
If we are not breaking up banks and if we are not requiring them to have reasonable levels of capital (thus limiting how much they can borrow relative to their equity), we must use all other available tools to stop the too-big-to-fail banks from taking excessive and ill-conceived risks.
This is where the Volcker Rule becomes so important. Named for Paul A. Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, and adopted as part of Dodd-Frank at the insistence of Senators Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, and Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, the Volcker Rule directs the regulators to get banks out of the business of betting on the markets.
The regulators are now determining how they plan to carry it out. Draft proposals are currently open for comment.
But the latest news on this front is not encouraging, as crucial regulators seem stuck in a "bigger is better, and anything goes for the biggest" mind set.
The Volcker Rule has some good points, including a requirement that trader compensation not be tied to speculative risk-taking, and that firms collect and report some essential data to regulators. But the current draft does too little to actually stop the banks' risky practices.
The main problem is that the rule as drawn does not set out the clear, bright lines that banks and regulators need, nor does it provide for meaningful enforcement. Instead of drawing the lines, the proposed rule mandates that firms write many of the rules themselves.
There is some good news. At this point, it is only a proposed rule, and the public is able to comment. Organizations like Better Markets that promote the public interest within the regulatory process will be in there fighting to strengthen the proposed rule and make the final rule better.
Everyone who cares about real financial reform should do the same, but the regulators' draft rule has made it harder to uphold the public interest than should have been the case. For example, the regulators ignored the breadth of the Volcker statute and focused instead on only a narrow slice of the bank's balance sheet - just what the bank says is for "trading" purposes. Much else of what big banks do seems likely to escape scrutiny.
The regulators also have given very little guidance on conflicts of interest, on what should be considered high-risk assets or on what high-risk trading strategies should be permitted.
During a Senate hearing at which I testified last week, Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, focused on another important problem - the lack of any restrictions on trading in the enormous Treasury securities market. The regulators will create a lot more paperwork for the banks, but if the current draft is adopted, the too-big-to-fail banks are not likely to be forced to stop doing much.
Last year Senator Levin said:
We hope that our regulators have learned with Congress that tearing down regulatory walls without erecting new ones undermines our financial stability and threatens our economic growth. We have legislated to the best of our ability. It is now up to our regulators to fully and faithfully implement these strong provisions.
From what we've seen so far, our regulators have not yet understood this message. They seem instead more in tune with Mr. Dimon, who insisted this year that regulators should back away from any effective implementation of the Volcker Rule:
The United States has the best, deepest, widest, most transparent capital markets in the world, which give you, the investor, the ability to buy and sell large amounts at very cheap prices. I wish Paul Volcker understood that.
Mr. Dimon -- who is on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York -- seems to have forgotten the financial crisis, its impact on ordinary Americans and the utter fiscal disaster that ensued. Or perhaps he never noticed.

        
Why Not Break Up Citigroup?
        
3 Questions on Financial Stability
        
When Regulators Side With the Industries They Regulate
        
A Question for Newt Gingrich
        
The Huntsman Alternative

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%) banking regulation; Daily Economist; Dodd-Frank; financial crisis; Paul Volcker; Simon Johnson; too big to fail; Volcker, Paul A; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%) Volcker, Paul A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



660 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Berkeley to Increase Aid to Middle-Class Students

BYLINE: REBECCA R. RUIZ


HIGHLIGHT: The University of California, Berkeley, announced that it would devote an additional $12 million annually to financial aid awards for middle-class students, making it the first public school to take such action. 

 BODY:
In Thursday's Times, Jennifer Medina reported that the University of California, Berkeley, will expand its financial aid to middle-class students next fall, seeking to combat economic stratification on campus.
Under the new program, which is projected to cost Berkeley around $12 million each year, families earning up to $140,000 will be expected to contribute no more than 15 percent of their annual income to financing a student's education.
As Ms. Medina noted, Berkeley's decision is a landmark one:
While several elite private universities - including the Ivy League triumvirate of Harvard, Princeton and Yale - offer similar programs for families with incomes up to $200,000, experts said that Berkeley was the first public university to do so. For the most part, public colleges have focused on merit scholarships to lure top students and aid for the poorest families to ensure access, but many now worry that approach has left out a wide group of families.
She additionally outlined the mechanics of the program, highlighting a few important asterisks:
On top of the parental contribution of 15 percent of income, students would also have to pay about $8,000 per year - generally a combination of loans, work-study and private scholarships. At the bottom end of the spectrum, that would make for a total payment of $20,000, a 37.5 percent discount off the $32,000 total of tuition, room and board for California residents. On the upper end, it would be about $29,000, or a 10 percent discount.
(Out-of-state students, who make up 30 percent of Berkeley's freshman class this year, will get comparable discounts on the first $32,000 of tuition and fees, but still have to pay an additional $23,000.)
Nonetheless, the new policy will have powerful effects for the 4,000 students anticipated to be awarded grants by administrators next year. And, beyond the practical, as Mark Kantrowitz of FinAid.org told Ms. Medina, Berkeley's gesture toward the middle class at a time of universally rising costs may well elicit an "emotional effect that works as a recruiting tool."

        
Last of 7 Parts: Answers to Your Questions on Student Loans and Scholarships
        
Part 6: Answers to Your Questions on Student Loans and Scholarships
        
Part 5: Answers to Your Questions on Scholarships and Student Loans
        
Part 4: Answers to Your Questions on Scholarships and Student Loans
        
Part 3: Answers to Your Questions on Scholarships and Student Loans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); FAMILY (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%) Financial Aid; Mark Kantrowitz; U.C. Berkeley; Paying Your Way

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



661 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Everything Old Is New Again

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The median age at first marriage bottomed in the mid-1950s; in the seven decades before then, nuptial timing looked a lot more like it does today. 

 BODY:
On Thursday, I wrote about a Pew Research Centerstudyshowing that the median age at first marriage is about six years higher today than it was in 1960, for both sexes.
But Philip N. Cohen, a sociologist at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, reminds us that using 1960 as a reference point can be misleading.
In 1960, the median age of first marriage was near a record low, having bottomed in about 1956. If you check out the trends going back to 1890, however, you get a much different picture:
"[T]he 1950s," Professor Cohen writes, "doesn't represent the 'traditional' family."

        
Older to Wed, If They Marry at All
        
The Economics of Men Behaving Badly
        
Inequality Rising Across the Developed World
        
The Oscar Curse (or, Why It Stinks to Be a Successful Woman)
        
The Seven-Year Recessionary Itch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CENSUS (59%) Census Bureau; family economics; marriage

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



662 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Bellevue Marks 275 Years of Taking Care

BYLINE: ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS


HIGHLIGHT: Founded in 1736 with just six beds, the landmark is known for taking in the poor and uninsured, and many bold-faced names. 

 BODY:
Bellevue Hospital Center celebrated its 275th anniversary Thursday with what one hospital official called a "conservative, restrained" noontime event, consonant with economic hard times, in the hospital atrium on the east side of Manhattan. Although a 275th birthday might not match up in gravitas to 200 years or 250 or 300, there is a word for it: dodranstricentennial.
Besides, in the coming era of Medicaid cuts and federal healthcare overhaul, mere continuity is to be celebrated at a place like Bellevue, dedicated to serving the poor and uninsured, including illegal immigrants, who will still be uninsured and hence a drain on resources under healthcare reform.
In honor of the occasion, the in-house historians at Bellevue have put together a list of firsts at Bellevue, sure to entrance trivia aficionados everywhere.
Bellevue, according to the hospital historians, is the oldest continually operating hospital in the country, from its founding in 1736 as a six-bed infirmary called the Almshouse Hospital on the site of what is now City Hall.
Its maternity ward was founded in 1799, and it incorporated its own medical school, Bellevue Hospital Medical College, in 1861. In 1869, it started the first hospital-based horse-and-buggy ambulance service in the country.
A Bellevue doctor, David Hosack, treated Alexander Hamilton after he was fatally wounded in his duel with Aaron Burr. Two months after graduating from Bellevue Medical College, Dr. Charles Augustus Leale was the first doctor in the box after John Wilkes Booth shot President Abraham Lincoln in Ford's Theater, according to the timeline.
In 1866, Bellevue doctors helped develop New York City's sanitary code, the first in the world, according to the historians.
Among the famous people who have died at Bellevue is Stephen Foster, composer of "Oh! Susanna" and other old-time hits. Mr. Foster died at 37 in 1864. True to Bellevue's mission of serving the poor, he was broke. O. Henry, the short-story writer, died at Bellevue in 1910, also destitute. Leadbelly, the folk and blues singer, died at Bellevue in 1949; the hospital timeline does not reveal his financial status.
Hospitals now have itinerant clowns, usually loners who seem to be trying too hard, to entertain patients. But from 1908 to 1967, Bellevue patients were treated to Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey circus performances in the hospital courtyard.
The inventor of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Dr. David Wechsler, was chief psychologist at Bellevue for 25 years, from 1932 on.
Since 1964, Bellevue has been the New York hospital on stand-by to treat presidents, dignitaries, United Nations diplomats and injured firefighters and police.
Bellevue also occupies some dark corners of history, which the official timeline does not delve into. It is the place where a pregnant pathologist, Kathryn Hinnant, was raped, robbed and strangled in 1989 by a homeless man, Steven Smith. Mr. Smith had secretly lived in the hospital for a month before the murder, and said he had wandered the hospital wearing operating room scrubs and a stethoscope.
To many New Yorkers, the name Bellevue is shorthand for the place where New Yorkers, including criminals, are taken when they go crazy. (Psychiatry, by the way, is one of the few Bellevue services that is bursting at the seams.) The timeline takes note of this only in passing, saying that in 1879, Bellevue "erects a pavilion for the insane within the hospital grounds, an approach deemed revolutionary at the time."
It does not mention that Jacob Riis, the muckraking journalist, described the "alcoholic cells" in Bellevue as a "way-station" for the poor, who traveled among penitentiary, workhouse and almshouse.
It does not mention that a parade of writers and other creative types went through Bellevue's psychiatric service: Eugene O'Neill, after attempting suicide; Malcolm Lowry, while being treated for alcoholism; Norman Mailer, after stabbing his wife, Adele Morales.
Or, as Dr. Eric Manheimer, the hospital's medical director, said the other day, contemplating the meaning of the anniversary: "We take care of everybody."

        
Clash Over Closing of Men's Homeless Shelter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (84%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); PATHOLOGY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); JAZZ & BLUES (61%); WRITERS (61%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (61%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (55%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (51%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (50%) Bellevue Hospital; Economic Conditions and Trends; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals; Bellevue Hospital Center; Manhattan (NYC); Health and Hospitals; Local History; Manhattan

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Bellevue Hospital; Bellevue Hospital Center

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



663 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Predictions

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: And what they say about the views of those who make them. 

 BODY:
Peter Schiff on Glenn Beck, Dec. 28, 2009:
PAYNE: So, where are you then, Peter, with respect to inflation? Do you think this is going to be the big story of 2010?
SCHIFF: You know, look, I know inflation is going to get worse in 2010. Whether it's going to run out of control or it's going to take until 2011 or 2012, but I know we're going to have a major currency crisis coming soon. It's going to dwarf the financial crisis and it's going to send consumer prices absolutely ballistic, as well as interest rates and unemployment.
PAYNE: And what does that mean? For people watching this show, what does that mean for the average American?
SCHIFF: It means their life is going to get a lot more difficult. It means things that they need to buy, things like food and energy, are going to be much more expensive. Ultimately, interest rates are going to rise and their entire standard of living is going to plunge.
And I'm hoping the government doesn't respond to this inflation with price controls because that's going to make it even worse. Now, you're going to be waiting in long lines to get basic food items or to get energy because there's going to be shortages. People might be going to the black market.
PAYNE: You're talking you're talking Zimbabwe, Weimar, Germany -- I mean, you're really talking about something like that actually happening in this country.
SCHIFF: It will happen if we don't change policies. There is still time to change.
PAYNE: Right.
SCHIFF: I mean, I'm running for the United States Senate, so I can try to change that myself. But if we don't reverse course, if we continue to stimulate, then we will end up with hyperinflation and it will be like Zimbabwe.
OK, strictly speaking the time hasn't run out -- we could, I guess, see an explosion of inflation next year. But with commodity prices down, wages going nowhere, and the dollar actually strengthening against other currencies, it's kind of hard to see where that's supposed to come from.
Look, the Austrian/Ron Paul types made some very strong predictions about inflation -- and rightly, given their model of how the world works. In their version of reality, it really isn't possible to triple the monetary base without dire effects on the price level. In my version of reality, of course, that's not only possible but what the model predicts in a liquidity trap.
So since we did indeed triple the monetary base with nothing much happening to inflation, the right lesson to draw is that their model is all wrong. Unfortunately, I see no hint that anyone in that camp is prepared to consider that possibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



664 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Americans Still (Mostly) Welcome Immigrants, Survey Finds

BYLINE: JASON DEPARLE


HIGHLIGHT: Nearly two-thirds of Americans said the United States should admit immigrants who were fleeing poverty, and more people said immigrants fill jobs than take them away. 

 BODY:
Immigration may be a hot button issue but you would not know it from the latest public opinion survey, which shows Americans sharply critical of government policy but still welcoming of legal immigrants.
Only 15 percent ranked immigration as one of the top two issues in the United States; concerns about the economy ran four times as high. While 58 percent said they worried about illegal immigration, only 18 percent called its legal counterpart a concern.
The annual survey, by the German Marshall Fund, compares the United States and five European countries. Concerns about immigration ran highest in Britain, where 30 percent called it a top two issue and nearly 40 percent said levels of legal immigration were too high. (Germans, by contrast, were surprisingly placid, with only 11 percent calling immigration a top issue.)
The American welcome mat was not unqualified. Slightly more than half of Americans called immigration more of a problem than an opportunity. Nearly half said there were too many immigrants in the country, and nearly two-thirds said that immigrants burdened social services. The survey showed a sharp partisan divide, with Republicans much more likely to call immigration a problem than Democrats or Independents.

Still, nearly two-thirds of Americans said the United States should admit immigrants who were fleeing poverty, and more people said immigrants fill jobs than take them away from citizens.
A slight majority favored retaining birthright citizenship - the provision under the 14th Amendment that grants citizenship to people born inside the United States, regardless of their parents legal status. And nearly two-thirds favored the Dream Act, which would offer legal status to some people brought to the United States illegally as children. That included more than half of Republicans, whose lawmakers in Congress blocked it last year.
"The public appears more moderate and nuanced in their views than extremists on either side," said Susan Martin, at immigration expert at Georgetown University who served as an adviser on the project. "Frankly, there was more optimism than I was expecting."
Nearly three-quarters of American said the government was doing a bad job of managing the issue. But a similar share said children of immigrants were integrating into the economy. A majority in all countries said they supported a preference for highly educated immigrants. But all countries also showed a preference for low-skilled immigrants with job offers, rather than high-skilled immigrants without them. 
The report can be found online here.

        
Across the World, Less Interest in Leaving Home
        
More (Wealthy) Americans Are Renouncing Citizenship
        
As Minority Populations Grow
        
More Americans Dropping Out of the Labor Force
        
Can Gay Marriage Save State Budgets?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); BUDGETS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); MARRIAGE (63%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Dream Act; Immigration; polls; Immigration and Emigration; Labor and Jobs; Polls and Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF THE US (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



665 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: City Jobless Rate Rises, Exceeding the Nation's

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The city's rate rose to 8.9 percent in November, despite an increase in holiday-related hiring. 

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate edged up to 8.9 percent in November despite a surge in preholiday hiring at stores, hotels and restaurants, the State Labor Department reported late on Thursday afternoon.
Private-sector employers in the city added almost 29,000 jobs last month, about one-third more than has been typical for November, said James P. Brown, principal economist for the department. But an increase in the number of people looking for work more than offset that rise, pushing the unemployment rate up from 8.8 percent in October, according to the state's figures.
The city's unemployment rate is now higher than the nation's for the first time since March 2010, Mr. Brown said. The national rate dropped to 8.6 percent last month, from 9 percent in October. 
Mr. Brown warned that the financial-services sector "is once again retrenching," a trend that does not bode well for the city. On Thursday, Morgan Stanley joined the ranks of big banks planning layoffs when it said it would eliminate 1,600 jobs early next year.
Statewide, the situation was similar last month. The number of people who started looking for work counteracted an increase of 34,400 private-sector jobs, nudging the state's unemployment rate to 8 percent, from 7.9 percent in October.
About 760,000 New York state residents were officially unemployed - which means they had tried but failed to find jobs - but about 425,000 collected unemployment benefits last month, the labor department said. Some of the rest had already exhausted all of the available benefits, which have been stretched to a maximum of 99 weeks, while others failed to qualify.

        
City Jobless Rate Falls to 16-Month Low
        
Jobless Rate Continues to Fall
        
Unemployment Rate Drops Again
        
City's Unemployment Rate Dips to 10 Percent
        
City Unemployment Rate Exceeds 10%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%) employment; state labor department; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; Housing & Economy; Labor

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



666 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Congress Considers Bills to Prevent Piracy

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Two Congressional bills take aim at Internet sites that offer pirated copies of movies, television shows and music, reports Edward Wyatt in Thursday's New York Times. 

 BODY:
Two Congressional bills take aim at Internet sites that offer pirated copies of movies, television shows and music, reports Edward Wyatt in Thursday's New York Times. Most such sites operate overseas, but the legislation, with bipartisan support, is directed at companies in this country -- search engines like Google and Yahoo, payment sites like PayPal and ad servers -- that help the sites stay in business.
The bills are highly controversial, with opposing sides lining up for battle. Silicon Valley companies, free-speech advocates and venture investors argue that the bills are too broad and endanger both Web sites and free speech. Google has hired at least 15 lobbying firms to fight the bills, while Mozilla has put a link to a petition opposing them on its Firefox browser home page. The Motion Picture Association of America and other business groups support them.
A House committee is to take up one of the bills, the Stop Online Piracy Act, on Thursday. Here is the bill'stext. And for just a taste of the lively debate over the issue, here is a stream of commentary on Twitter.

        
Economic Agency Calls on Members to Defend Internet Freedoms
        
Reviewing Jerry Sandusky
        
Everyone Speaks Text Message
        
New Internet Law Limits Consumer Choices
        
Daily Report: Clinton Pushes for Internet Freedom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); FILM (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); INTERNET BROWSERS (68%); TEXT MESSAGING (66%) Internet; piracy; Policy; Computers and the Internet; Copyrights and Copyright Violations; United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); PAYPAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



667 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley, Like Rivals, to Make Deep Job Cuts

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: The elimination of 1,600 positions is expected to occur across all job levels in all divisions, including investment banking, trading and support functions. 

 BODY:
8:32 p.m. | Updated 
It is a year to forget on Wall Street.
The final few months of 2011 have been a painful period of layoffs and cost-cutting in the finance industry, and it continued on Thursday, as Morgan Stanley announced that it would eliminate 1,600 jobs, or 2.6 percent of its work force, by the first quarter of 2012.
Many banks, facing economic and regulatory uncertainty, have embarked on widespread cost-cutting programs to improve profits. But Morgan Stanley waited longer than many of its competitors to make deep cuts to its work force. This month, Citigroup announced it would cut 4,500 jobs. Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and several other firms have also announced thousands of job cuts.
"As we conduct our year-end performance management process and evaluate the right size of the franchise for 2012, we anticipate the elimination of approximately 1,600 positions across the firm globally," Jeanmarie McFadden, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, said in a statement.
In all, the securities industry in New York City lost nearly $3 billion in the third quarter, according to a report released on Thursday by Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York State comptroller. Profits at the city's securities companies, which include major Wall Street banks as well as smaller brokerage firms, now total $9.6 billion for 2011, and they are expected to fall far short of the $20 billion in profit officials had projected for the year, according to the report.
Amid the banks' struggles, Fitch Ratings on Thursday downgraded Bank of America, Goldman and others, joining the drumbeat of downgrades by credit rating agencies. Fitch cited concerns about the banks' financial health and long-term stability.
"There's no denying that business is dreadful, and banks are trimming back," said Chris Kotowski, a banking analyst with Oppenheimer. "In an environment like this, people are going to look at everyone on their platform and say, is this person absolutely necessary?"
The job cuts have been severe. In an report released in October, Mr. DiNapoli estimated that another 10,000 people in the securities industry in New York could lose their jobs by the end of 2012, which would bring the total to 32,000 since January 2008.
"These firms are still going to make money, no question about it," Mr. DiNapoli said in an interview Thursday. "But when you consider how strongly the year began, it is certainly ending very differently."
At Morgan Stanley, the newest round of reductions is expected to hit all job levels in all divisions, including investment banking, trading and support functions, according to a person with knowledge of the plans who was not authorized to speak publicly. The 17,000 financial advisers in the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney unit are not expected to be affected by the cuts, the person said, though other employees in the unit may be laid off.
The cuts are not the first for Morgan Stanley, which announced in March that it had laid off 300 underperforming advisers in the Smith Barney unit. The bank has been trying to reduce noncompensation expenses by $1 billion over the next three years. In October, James P. Gorman, the chief executive, told analysts that Morgan Stanley would keep paying "those employees who are delivering value."
End-of-year layoffs are standard procedure on Wall Street. Many cut underperforming members of struggling divisions and adjust bonuses for the remaining staff.
But this year is different. "Everybody gets lower bonus checks, and some people get a severance package," Mr. Kotowski of Oppenheimer said. "This is not a Morgan Stanley thing, this is a Wall Street thing."
The cuts have been large enough to worry New York City officials, whose budgets depend upon a relatively healthy financial sector. Personal income tax collection could drop by $200 million next year because of lower profits in the financial sector, and business and sales tax collection could drop by $100 million a year, the comptroller's report estimated.
"Having a downsize in employment in a sector that pays very well is not welcome news," Mr. DiNapoli said, citing what he called the "multiplier effect," whereby each lost Wall Street job results in two additional lost jobs in other sectors in the city.
In addition to lost taxes, the downturn in the financial sector will most likely hurt profits for businesses in the real estate, automobile and luxury good sectors, which rely on financiers spending their bonuses. Those bonuses are expected to fall 20 to 30 percent this year compared with last year, according to a survey by Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm.
And while the Occupy Wall Street movement might not have much sympathy for smaller bonuses, Mr. DiNapoli said the effects of cutbacks could become a Main Street concern.
"It's a double-edged sword," he said. "There may be some things you don't like about Wall Street, but for our city and state, we very much depend on it."
An earlier version of the story indicated Fitch downgraded Morgan Stanley. Fitch cut the viability grade on Morgan Stanley but not its credit rating. 

        
Goldman Loss Offers a Bad Omen for Wall Street
        
New York May Lose 10,000 Wall St. Jobs, Report Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INTERVIEWS (60%) James Gorman; James P. Gorman; Job Cuts; Morgan Stanley; Wall Street; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%) Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



668 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Nepal and Others Mull Monsanto's Role in Advancing Agriculture

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A fresh look at tensions over Monsanto and the arrival of "big ag" in Nepal. 

 BODY:
Here's a quick update on efforts to expand access to higher-yielding hybrid seed in Nepal. Even though the country already has lots of different varieties beyond their own traditional supplies, a recent plan to expand access to higher-yielding seed, facilitated by the United States Agency for International Development and involving Monsanto, hit a big roadblock, as was explored here not long ago ("In Nepal, Farmers Struggle as City Dwellers Fight Monsanto").
Below you can read reactions to this situation from Pamela C. Ronald, a professor of plant pathology at the University of California, San Diego, and her husband Raoul W. Adamchak, an organic vegetable farmer. Together they are authors of the eye-opening book "Tomorrow's Table: Organic Farming, Genetics, and the Future of Food" (which was praised by Bill Gates).
But first, here's an update on the situation in Nepal, where a Ministry of Agriculture hearing was held last Sunday and covered by Kashish Das Shrestha, a Nepal-born photographer and writer now based in New York City. (Have a look at his photos of farming and protests over Monsanto on the Asia Society blog.) His report, posted on MyRepublica, is worth a full read. Particularly notable is this long statement by Hari Dahal, the ministry spokesman: 
Because we are food insecure to some extent we do feel that we should use hybrids. Second thing is, there is tremendous pressure from the companies too. If there is a provision to file an application then companies will and have been filing applications. So we can't pick and chose. There is no denying the companies are quite influential. Personally, I feel even hybrids need to be kept within a restriction-the quantity we use, the space we allocate and the regions we pick, that has to be clear. If a company like Monsanto comes it will eat us whole.
Which is why we need to be aware from the start; this is an extremely sensitive issue for us. We cannot accept hybrids just because China or India does so because their capacities and ours are starkly different. They can chase a company out, but not us. Our budget is dependent on the donor community and we are generally weaker. Yes, we need hybrid for food production. Sure, the companies need to do some business too. But it needs to be restricted....
If an organization like USAID wants to help us with a company like Monsanto, we would hope that they would help us to actually develop our own hybrids instead, not to import their foreign seeds.
Here's Pamela Ronald's reaction to the news from Katmandu (the italicized snippets are from Shrestha's piece) and the general situation in developing countries weighing the merits and drawbacks when multinational companies come calling:
Hybrid seed yield more and require less pesticides (because they carry robust traits for resistance to pests and disease) as compared to open-pollinated seed. Because farmers reap both environmental and economic benefits, most farmers in the U.S., including organic farmers, purchase hybrid seed. The drawback to hybrids is that the seeds saved from hybrids are not very productive. To maintain productivity, farmers must purchase new seed each year. It seems reasonable then to run a pilot project for "20,000 farmers and include training on hybrid maize production practices and facilitate linkages between producers and end-users." That way farmers can evaluate for themselves the costs and benefits of the seeds. Let the farmers decide.
I agree.
The important question are much broader than whether to plant hybrids or not. Do the seed promote food security so the Nepalese can reduce imports? Do the seed enhance economic stability of Nepalese farmers? Do they seed reduce the use of insecticides and pesticides, thereby enhancing health of farmworkers?
This seems reasonable diversified and should allay fears that Nepal will be reliant on a single company, Monsanto. If this is the main concern, suitable regulations could be developed. Another point to consider is the potential benefits of fostering a home-grown hybrid seed industry, which would reduce reliance on foreign companies and produce another source of income for the Nepalese.
Here's Raoul Adamchak:
I'm an organic vegetable grower in California and plant over 50 different varieties each year. Some of those varieties are hybrids because they have traits like yield, pest resistance, or flavor that make them far superior to open pollinated (OP) varieties. While hybrid seed usually costs more than OP seed, it is a small proportion of overall costs of production. For example, I buy only hybrid sweet corn seed, usually a variety called Vision ($26.90/lb). It is a supersweet variety that is delicious and maintains its sweetness for up to week. I use it for my CSA (subscription produce system), where I can put it into baskets each week without icing it, and be sure that when my customers eat it in a day or two, they will be happy.
There are no OP sweet corn (e.g. Double Standard from Johnny's Selected Seed @$18.60/lb) varieties that even remotely compare to Vision. I think of OP varieties as "cow corn", tough, chewy, lots of corn flavor, and little sweetness. No, I can't save seed from Vision, but I wouldn't want to save seed from the OP variety. I don't grow field corn, which is the crop at issue in Nepal, but virtually all of the U.S. field corn crop is from hybrid seed. The reason growers, organic or conventional, chose hybrid corn is yield, uniformity, and disease resistance.
If only OP corn was grown here, yields would be dramatically lower, resulting in poorer farmers and more land in production. To insist that growers in Nepal only grow OP corn is to insist that they remain poor, subsistence farmers. Nepal is presently a net importer of food. Land degradation due to population pressure is an increasing problem. Without improved seed and increased yields, the situation will only worsen.
Producing hybrid seed is a scientific advancement of the last century. Many seed companies around the world, in Japan, Europe, India, China, and North America, produce hybrid seed. If Nepal wants to develop its own hybrid corn varieties in the name of local food and ag sustainability, it wouldn't take more than one university-trained plant breeder, a field site, and 5 to 10 years to produce productive hybrid varieties suitable for Nepal.
I encourage farmers in Nepal to evaluate existing hybrid varieties to see if they meet their needs and do it in ways that minimize risk. They need to know if hybrid varieties increase yield and/or reduce fungicide use, if they are cost effective, and if they meet the demands of their customers.
I also encourage them to use crop rotation, cover crops, compost, crop diversity, and use practices that support beneficial organisms. Improved seed is only one facet of sustainable farming. Most importantly, farmers need to be at the table to help decide what is sustainable for them and for the country.

        
In Nepal, Farmers Struggle as City Dwellers Fight Monsanto
        
On Green Dread and Agricultural Technology
        
Varied Menus for Sustaining a Well-Fed World
        
Modified Corn Aids Nearby Farmers, and Vice Versa
        
Academy Answers Gates' Call for Technology to Aid Poorest Farmers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); WRITERS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); BOTANY (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); PESTICIDES (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%) Agriculture; development; farming; Food; gmo; industry; monsanto; Nepal; Poverty; US AID; Gates, Bill; Agriculture and Farming; Corn; International Trade and World Market; Local Food; Organic Foods and Products; Pesticides; Seeds; Sustainable Living; Third World and Developing Countries; Vegetables; Monsanto Company; United States Agency for International Development; University of California, San Diego; Katmandu (Nepal); Monsanto Company|MON|NYSE; trade

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (55%) Monsanto Company; United States Agency for International Development; University of California, San Diego

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (92%) Monsanto Company; MON; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (92%)

PERSON: Gates, Bill

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) NEPAL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%) Katmandu (Nepal); Nepal

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



669 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Zynga's Value, at $7 Billion, Is Milestone for Social Gaming

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Zynga, the creator of digital farms, poker tables and kingdoms, priced its initial public offering at $10 a share to raise $1 billion. 

 BODY:
8:56 p.m. | Updated 
The virtual cow is the new cash cow of Wall Street.
On Thursday, Zynga, the creator of social online games involving farms, poker tables and kingdoms, priced its initial public offering at $10 a share, at the top end of its expected range. The offering, which raised $1 billion, values the company at $7 billion.
The highly anticipated public offering - the largest for an American Internet company since Google - is a critical milestone for the social gaming industry, solidifying the legitimacy of a business model once mocked by investors. At $7 billion, Zynga rivals traditional gaming companies like Electronic Arts, which makes a lot of its money at brick-and-mortar stores.
"This is a revolution," said Lou Kerner, an analyst at Liquidnet, a brokerage firm, who has followed Zynga for years. "Social is revolutionizing the gaming industry and it's really the early days of a brand new medium."
Founded in 2007, Zynga has emerged as the shining example of Gaming 2.0.
Zynga attracts 222 million people each month on Facebook, making it the largest gaming company on the social network. A small fraction of users, less than 2 percent, pay money to populate their farms or build their cities in games like FarmVille and CityVille.
But the virtual goods are generating real profits. Each day, players spend $3 million in Zynga's economy. In the first nine months of the year, the company had earnings of $30.7 million, on revenue of $828.9 million.
While estimates once put Zynga's market value at nearly $20 billion, new investors are nonetheless paying a premium for the company. At $7 billion, it is set to start trading at seven times sales. By comparison, Electronic Arts, which makes the popular Madden N.F.L. video game series, has a market value of $6.9 billion, putting its price at roughly two times sales. Including all unexercised options and warrants, the offering values Zynga as high as $9.6 billion, according to its prospectus.
Investors are betting on the potential for profits.
Zynga embodies a confluence of trends in the gaming industry. Its whimsical games cater to casual users, who may not own a console like a PlayStation 3. Its games, which are available on Facebook and mobile devices, also use social networks to allow players to share activity with their friends.
Led by the hard-charging Mark Pincus, a graduate of the Harvard Business School who spent his formative years on Wall Street, Zynga is often denounced by critics for its intense culture and for emulating rivals' games. But many also credit Mr. Pincus as a pioneer for making a big bet on social gaming and the so-called freemium model, in which playing is free but players have the option to upgrade features by spending money.
 "Say what you will about Zynga. But Mark knew that free was the next big thing, and he went harder than anyone else," said Gabriel Leydon, the founder of Addmired, another gaming start-up. "He saw the trend way ahead of time, and he spent the most money."
It took time to persuade Silicon Valley of the model's potential. Mr. Pincus is a serial entrepreneur who founded Freeloader, an Internet broadcast service sold for $38 million in 1995, and Support.com, an online consumer support service that went public during the last dot-com boom. He initially got snubbed by many venture capital firms, according to people with knowledge of the matter who would speak only anonymously because the talks were private. His first major fund-raising effort for Zynga mainly attracted wealthy friends, like Peter Thiel, a founder of PayPal.
As Facebook grew rapidly, so did Zynga, and it soon attracted the attention of Silicon Valley's top venture firms. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers has an 11 percent stake and companies led by Yuri Milner, a Russian billionaire, hold a 5.8 percent stake. Google, which invested in Zynga in 2009, owns 4.1 percent.
Zynga's insiders are largely remaining steadfast. Mr. Pincus is holding on to his shares. And the main venture capital firms will reduce their holdings only if demand is strong and bankers decide to sell more stock. In that case, Institutional Venture Partners, Union Square Ventures, Foundry Venture Capital and Avalon Ventures will each sell a little more than two million shares.
The company is going public at a volatile time for the initial public offerings. The market has been shaken by continuing credit fears and skepticism that the new darlings of technology can sustain their momentum. Groupon, the daily deal site that went public in early November, tumbled as low as $14.85 a share, well below its offering price, before bouncing back recently. In another ominous sign, Zynga's Asian rival, Nexon, raised $1.2 billion in its offering on Wednesday, but it stumbled 2 percent on its first day of trading. 
Zynga's long-term outlook is also mixed. Despite its popularity, it has struggled to find new catalysts to increase user adoption.
Then there is the Facebook issue. Analysts are concerned that Zynga, which derives nearly all its revenue from the social network, will not be successful at building out its independent platforms, particularly for mobile devices. 
Zynga has been an aggressive acquirer but has failed to persuade some mobile gaming companies to join its ranks. For instance, both PopCap and Rovio, the maker of Angry Birds, turned it down this year despite billion-dollar offers, according to people with knowledge of the matter. As social gaming evolves, many analysts say they believe that mobile is a must-win area.
"Mark Pincus was one of the first who really saw the opportunity of virtual goods," said Mr. Kerner. "But it's not just about Facebook anymore, they have to figure out mobile, too."

        
Zynga's Tough Culture Risks a Talent Drain
        
Japanese Company to Buy iPhone Game Developer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); GAMING (90%); POKER (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (63%) Electronic Arts; Google; Liquidnet; lou kerner; Mark Pincus; Take-Two Interactive; Zynga; Pincus, Mark; Initial Public Offerings; Zynga Inc; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: ZYNGA INC (92%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Zynga Inc

TICKER: ZNGA (NASDAQ) (92%); EA (NASDAQ) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: Pincus, Mark

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



670 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Congress Reaches Deal to Reauthorize and Revamp Small-Business Programs

BYLINE: ROBB MANDELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The compromise makes small-business assistance available to more - and larger - companies. 

 BODY:
 The House of Representatives and the Senate have resolved a three-year battle over the future of two important federal initiatives to aid small businesses: the Small Business Innovation Research program and the Small Business Technology Transfer program. On the particulars, the Senate seems to have carried the day, but the House has won long-term changes to the innovation research program that open it up to companies backed by venture capital. In their dispute, the House and Senate have served as proxies for opposing views of the program's purpose: whether it should funnel funds to small businesses otherwise neglected by the markets, or maximize the return to the economy in job and wealth creation.
The two initiatives are popular programs that steer federal technology research funds to small businesses. The Small Business Innovation Research program directs the 11 government agencies that spend more than $100 million on research grants to set aside 2.5 percent of that pool for companies with fewer than 500 employees. Agencies generally grant up to $100,000 in the early, exploratory stage of a project, and up to $750,000 for a two-year follow-on phase. In 2010, agencies reported that $2.2 billion in the program's funds went to small firms, according to the Small Business Administration, which oversees the initiative. The technology transfer program requires the five agencies that spend more than $1 billion on outside research to set aside 0.3 percent of their budgets for partnerships between small firms and nonprofit institutions, which amounted to $276 million in 2009.
"The consensus view is that S.B.I.R. is probably the best R.&D. program in the federal government," said Jere Glover, executive director of the Small Business Technology Council, an affiliate of the National Small Business Association. A 2008 study by researchers from the University of California found that S.B.I.R. recipients accounted for between 20 and 25 percent of top American innovations since 1997.
But when the program's authorization expired in 2008, members of the House Small Business Committee sought to restructure it, making companies that are majority-owned by venture-capital firms eligible to participate as well as increasing the size of the grants. "The reauthorization focuses the program on the best ideas with the greatest chance of success and not a company's financial structure," said Rep. Sam Graves, Republican of Missouri and committee chairman, upon the introduction of legislation to change the program earlier this year. "Given the difficulty in acquiring capital to support innovative ideas, we thought the current program was overly restrictive and needed to be changed."
Senators were not eager to embrace this remaking, but though the disagreement over reauthorizing the programs pit chamber against chamber, this was not a partisan dispute. The most recent House bill, advanced by Republicans, in fact backs away from even more radical changes that were proposed by House Democrats in 2009 and that passed the chamber with broad bipartisan support. The Senate offered an alternative (which passed unanimously) that set aside a small percentage of the innovation research program's funds for venture-backed companies and scaled back the increase in award sizes, while increasing the size of both programs, something the House opposed. In 2010, the Senate sweetened its offer by making more financing for innovation research available to venture-backed companies.
That was essentially the deal the House accepted this week, as part of the National Defense Authorization Act. Companies in which a group of venture funds owns a majority stake are now eligible to compete for up to 25 percent of the S.B.I.R. funds from the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, and the Department of Energy, and up to 15 percent from the eight other federal agencies that participate in the program. The ceiling on individual grants in both the innnovation research and the technology transfer programs will increase to $150,000 for projects in the first phase; for second phase grants it will grow to $1 million. And over the next six years - the length of the new authorization - the share of external research funds agencies will have to set aside for S.B.I.R. will grow from 2.5 percent to 3.2 percent. The allocation for the technology transfer program will rise from 0.3 percent to 0.45 percent.
In exchange for having its vision curtailed, the House did win other concessions, said Darrell Jordan, Mr. Graves's spokesman - for one, companies backed by private equity and hedge funds will also be able to participate in the innovation-research program alongside venture-backed companies.
Mr. Glover's organization, the Small Business Technology Council, opposed allowing venture financing into the program, but on Tuesday Mr. Glover said he was satisfied with the deal. "We are very pleased to have stability in the program and a long-term understanding of where the program is going over the six years," he said. "We recognize that in Washington there needs to be compromise to move forward." Since the S.B.I.R. program lapsed in 2008, it has been renewed with temporary extensions 14 times. The latest temporary extension is set to expire Friday evening.
Still, Mr. Glover wondered whether the presence of venture money might move the program's focus away from the more conceptual stage of innovation, when an idea is riskiest. "The idea behind the S.B.I.R. program was to fund projects at an earlier stage in the cycle, when they wouldn't be considered eligible for funding by anybody else," he said. In the first nine months of 2011, venture capitalists reported directing less than four percent of their total investments to the seed stage of development, according to figures from the National Venture Capital Association.
But in an e-mailed statement, Mr. Jordan disputed Mr. Glover's characterization of the research program's goals. "Yes, the S.B.I.R. program is designed to help innovative small businesses get 'seed funding,' but it is also focused on the commercial potential of the product," he said. "And most VC-backed companies have already demonstrated their ability to develop good products, making them a good investment for taxpayers."
Restructuring the Small Business Innovation Research program is not the only instance of Congress making small-business assistance available to more - and larger - companies. Last year, Congress increased both the loan limit and the size standards for eligibility for Small Business Administration loan programs. In October, S.B.A. officials reported that in a year of record lending, the number of small loans - presumably going to the smallest borrowers - declined.
Correction: An earlier version of this post reported incorrectly that the 2008 study on innovation was financed by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a Washington-based research group that backs activist innovation policies by government. The foundation did not pay for the study; it published a version of the study. The original version of the study can be found here.

        
Senate Posturing Kills Small Business Investment Research Renewal
        
How Should Government Spur Small-Business Innovation?
        
Republicans Find More to Cut From the S.B.A. Budget
        
A Bipartisan Push to Cut the S.B.A.?
        
S.B.A. Spared in 2011 Spending Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (97%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (90%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%) Department of Energy; House of Representatives; House Small Business Committee; Information Technology and Innovation Foundation; Innovation; National Institutes of Health; National Science Foundation; S.B.A.; S.B.A. lending; S.B.I.R.; S.T.T.R.; Small Business Technology Council; Venture Capital; Graves, Sam; Research; Small Business; National Small Business Assn; National Venture Capital Assn; Senate; Small Business Administration; The Agenda

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (59%) House of Representatives; National Small Business Assn; National Venture Capital Assn; Senate; Small Business Administration

PERSON: SAM GRAVES (78%) Graves, Sam

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011



671 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: When the Doctor Faces a Lawsuit

BYLINE: PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.


HIGHLIGHT: Researchers surveyed more than 7,000 surgeons and found that nearly one in four were in the midst of litigation, putting them at increased risk for depression and burnout and setting the stage for even more medical errors and malpractice claims. 

 BODY:
Within months of completing my training, I received the call that every doctor dreads.
"You've been named in a malpractice lawsuit," said the hospital administrator on the other end of the line.
The family of a patient I had seen briefly a year before believed that a colleague's decision not to operate hastened her demise. Now their lawyers, combing through the medical records, believed that a single sentence in my note brought that doctor's decision into question. As a second or maybe even third opinion, I had written that the woman was a "possible candidate" for surgery.
The truth was that when I saw her she a possible candidate, but only tenuously so. In fact, her health deteriorated so rapidly that by the time she finished seeing all the specialists and returned to her original surgeon, the chances of her surviving any treatment, no matter how heroic, were almost nil.
Though I knew all that, in the weeks after that telephone call I couldn't help questioning myself, going over the case in my mind as soon as I woke up, then again and again late into the night. I froze with fear every time I was asked for my opinion on a diagnosis or treatment plan and became a master at evasion, littering my assessments and write-ups with words like "maybe," "perhaps" and "will await further work-up." And I wondered if my colleagues knew, if the blot on my record had already soaked through the fabric of my professional reputation.
In the end, the family dropped the case; I never met with any lawyers or went to court. But memories of the all-encompassing threat of a claim came flooding back when I read a recent study of how litigation affects doctors.
Medical malpractice lawsuits have existed in the United States for more than 150 years, though today, most medical errors are never pursued in court, and a large majority of claims never result in any kind of payment to patients. And even though the direct and indirect costs of such suits account for only 2.4 percent of total health care costs, that's still $55 billion yearly. To say nothing of the even more important social costs, an issue addressed last month in The Journal of the American College of Surgeons.
Researchers surveyed more than 7,000 surgeons and found that nearly one in four were in the midst of litigation. Surgeons involved in a recent lawsuit were more likely to suffer from depression and burnout, including feelings of emotional exhaustion and detachment, a low sense of accomplishment and even thoughts of suicide.
"Malpractice is at the top of the list of major stressors for most physicians," said Dr. Charles M. Balch, the lead author and a professor of surgery at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. "It's right up there with financial distress, serious work-home conflicts and life-and-death circumstances."
Other studies estimate that, depending on the specialty, anywhere from 75 percent to 99 percent of practicing doctors will over the course of a lifetime be threatened with a lawsuit. "We are not talking about some small subset of physicians who are vulnerable because they are weak," said Dr. Tait D. Shanafelt, a co-author and associate professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. "Malpractice affects a wide swath of our colleagues and their patients."
Doctors who have been sued may end up practicing defensive medicine, ordering unnecessary tests and medications or refusing to treat patients with more complex illnesses altogether as a safeguard against future litigation. Those same doctors can also become burned out, which can lead to even more errors, and more malpractice claims.
"Burnout may be what reinforces the connections between malpractice, defensive medicine and poor-quality care," said Amitabh Chandra, a professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government and an economist who has written extensively on medical malpractice.
The study authors propose that one way to disrupt the negative cycle is to improve communication between patients and doctors, so that patients are aware of the risks that can occur despite a doctor's best efforts. Another important step is instituting programs that continue those conversations even after an error occurs. "We need supportive work environments and more programs that allow doctors and patients to resolve issues directly," Dr. Balch said.
But change will require looking at malpractice reform in a new way, one that gives weight not just to the economic costs but to the ways reform might affect how patients and doctors interact.
"Ultimately we are dealing with doctors who are working under enormous pressures," Dr. Chandra said. "For them, the emotional costs are colossal."

        
When Nurses Make Mistakes
        
Medication-Related Injuries on the Rise
        
Encouraging Doctors to Report Mistakes
        
Nurse on Trial After Reporting Doctor
        
When the Doctor Is Sued

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (93%); LITIGATION (93%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DEPRESSION (89%); LAWYERS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (73%); WRITERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SUICIDE (60%) Doctor and Patient; Malpractice; medical error; medical errors; Doctors; Medicine and Health; Suits and Litigation; Surgery and Surgeons; Pauline Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012



672 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Battlefronts

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: The latest political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
Finding his presidential aspirations threatened by a resurgent Newt Gingrich, Mitt Romney is aggressively attacking the former House speaker's stability, temperament and world view, while preparing for a months-long, state-by-state, delegate-by-delegate fight, Jeff Zeleny reports. 

        
Mr. Gingrich has not outlined a foreign policy agenda, but his statements on the campaign trail suggest that he expects a decades-long struggle against radical Islam centered in Iran, Trip Gabriel writes.

        
In a "Political Memo," Jennifer Steinhauer writes that Congress is again dancing on the edge of a government shutdown as lawmakers bicker over how to fund the federal government until Sept. 30, 2012, the end of the current fiscal year, and debate endlessly how to extend a payroll tax cut that expires at the end of the year and provide unemployment benefits for millions of workers.

        
So what's the holdup on that spending bill? Policy riders and restrictions targeting Cuba and abortion, among other things, Robert Pear writes.

        
A proposal by a Democratic senator and a Republican representative would make major structural changes to Medicare and limit the government's open-ended financial commitment to it, limiting Democrats who argue that Republicans are out to destroy the program, Mr. Pear reports.

        
Visiting the Fort Bragg Army base in North Carolina on Wednesday for the first time since he took office, President Obama told a crowd of veterans returning from Iraq that the nine-year-old conflict had ended. Helene Cooper reports on the speech, writing that it was the latest effort by Mr. Obama to try to drive home the point that he fulfilled one of his campaign promises.

        
President Obama will not veto a defense bill that includes controversial rules and limits for handling terror suspects, a reversal prompted by a joint Congressional panel's changes to the legislation. Charlie Savage writes that the decision probably signals the end of a political battle between the White House and Republicans over detainees and executive power.
Around the Web:
The Washington Post profiles Representative Ron Paul of Texasas "a force to be reckoned with," noting that he could be a game-changer if he decides to run for the White House as a third-party candidate.
Happening in Washington:
Economic data scheduled to be released on Thursday include the current account trade deficit for the third quarter at 8:30, simultaneous with the November producer price index and weekly unemployment insurance claims. Those will be followed by November industrial production at 9:15 and weekly mortgage rates at 10.
At 10, the House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee on bailouts and financial services will examine what the euro crisis means for the American economy.
At 1 p.m., Jon S. Corzine is expected to testify about the collapse of the brokerage firm MF Global in front of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations.
At 3, Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, and Representative Steve Cohen, Democrat of Tennessee, will announce the formation of the Congressional Collegiate Sports Caucus at a press conference.

        
The Early Word: Voters
        
The Early Word: The Deciders
        
The Weekend Word: (Not) According to Plan
        
The Early Word: Going Head to Head
        
The Early Word: Populist

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); BAILOUTS (74%); MEDICARE (74%); ARMIES (73%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); TAX LAW (70%); PRODUCER PRICES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (60%); RELIGION (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); RON PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



673 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
MF Global's Risk Officer Said to Lack Authority | Congressional investigators are exploring whether regulators and feeble risk controls allowed MF Global to topple.
A House committee is expected to disclose on Thursday that MF Global, under Jon S. Corzine, stripped critical powers from its top executive in charge of controlling risk, according to a person briefed on the matter.
The move left the firm short-handed as it was grappling with the implications of its $6.3 billion position on European sovereign debt, a trade large enough to wipe out the firm if it soured.
DealBook 

        
Judge Allows MF Global to Continue Using Cash on Hand | A federal judge on Wednesday approved a request by MF Global to continue using about $21.3 million of its cash on hand, allowing the bankrupt brokerage firm to continue operating under Chapter 11.
DealBook 
        
8 Questions for the MF Global Hearing | Terrence A. Duffy, executive chairman of the CME Group, returns to Capitol Hill on Thursday, after testifying earlier that Jon S. Corzine knew MF Global had been misusing customer money. DealBook has prepared eight questions that lawmakers may want to ask Mr. Duffy.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Weill's Penthouse Wish Granted | After putting his 15 Central Park West penthouse on the market for $88 million, Sanford I. Weill has found a buyer, who is said to be paying the asking price, The Observer reports.
OBSERVER
Suspicious Packages Prompt Evacuation of Credit Suisse | Credit Suisse staff members were briefly evacuated from their Manhattan offices on Wednesday after the Swiss bank received two suspicious packages in the mail. The packages were later determined to be harmless.
DealBook 
A Big Survivor of American Airlines Cost Cutting | Reuters found a $30 million London townhouse listed as an asset in American Airlines's bankruptcy filing. "This is a very discreet enclave that is ideal for high-profile residents wanting to live in relative anonymity," an unidentified person at Knight Frank, a real estate group, told Reuters.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Lam Research to Buy Novellus Systems for $3.3 Billion | Lam Research and Novellus, makers of equipment to build semiconductors, will combine to gain market share in an all-stock transaction.
DealBook 
Old Mutual to Sell Its Nordic Business for $3.2 Billion | Old Mutual of Britain has agreed to sell the Skandia Insurance Company, its Nordic savings and banking business, to the Swedish insurance company Skandia Liv for $3.2 billion.
DealBook 
SurveyMonkey Valued at $1 Billion as TPG Joins as Investor | In a complex deal, SurveyMonkey, an online survey service, has joined with TPG Capital to acquire a rival, MarketTools.
DealBook 
Fujifilm to Buy Medical Equipment Maker | The Fujifilm Holdings Corporation agreed to buy SonoSite, an American maker of ultrasound and cardiograph equipment, for about $752.8 million in cash, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Live Nation Buys Data Analysis Company | Live Nation Entertainment, the music giant that owns Ticketmaster, is buying BigChampagne, a 10-year-old company that analyzes how people consume media online, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Zipcar to Take Majority Stake in Car Sharer | Zipcar agreed to increase its stake in Spain's Avancar to 60 percent, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Oil Companies Buy Leases on 21 Million Acres | Big oil companies, including ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil and BP, submitted $337.6 million of winning bids for leases to explore for oil in the Gulf of Mexico, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Credit Suisse's Latest Cost-Cutting Effort | Credit Suisse will combine the support operations for its investment banking and private banking divisions as Switzerland's second largest bank looks to reduce costs against the backdrop of the sovereign debt crisis.
DealBook 
A Top Goldman Executive to Retire | Michael R. Berlinski, who runs the group at Goldman Sachs that caters to private equity firms, is leaving.
DealBook 
Lloyds Chief to Return in January From Medical Leave | The Lloyds Banking Group said Wednesday that Antonio Horta-Osorio plans to return to his post as chief executive.
DealBook 
An Alternative to Credit Raters | Regulators have proposed a new system of ratings that could one day replace the pronouncements of the credit ratings agencies, free of that industry's conflicts of interest, The New York Times editorial board writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
American Depositors Ditch Foreign Banks | Foreign-owned banks in the United States saw their deposits fall by 25 percent from the end of May to the start of December, the largest six-month fall on record, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
European Banks Feel the Strain | The European crisis continued to punish the Continent's banks, as the rates for short-term borrowing in dollars among banks rose to the highest level since July 2009, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fitch Downgrades European Banks | The credit ratings agency downgraded five European commercial banks and cooperative banking groups, including Credit Agricole, The Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Smaller Bonuses for Merrill Lynch Executives | Bank of America is planning to cut year-end bonuses for Merrill Lynch executives by as much as 40 percent, compared to last year, Fox Business Network reports, citing unidentified senior people at the firm.
FOX BUSINESS NETWORK
PRIVATE EQUITY 
K.K.R. Is Said to Be Among Bidders for WebMD | Four private equity firms, including K.K.R. and Providence Equity Partners, are bidding for the medical information company WebMD, with Monday as the final bidding deadline, The New York Post reports, citing unidentified people.
NEW YORK POST
Greek Creditors Are Said to Tap Blackstone | A committee formed by Greek creditors is close to hiring the Blackstone Group and two law firms to advise it on a debt restructuring, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Carlyle Is Said to Eye Highland Unit | The Carlyle Group is in talks to buy a unit of Highland Capital Management that manages $3 billion in European collateralized loan obligations, but the companies haven't reached an agreement, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
CVC in Bid for Malaysia's KFC and Pizza Hut Operators | CVC Capital Partners, the London-based private equity firm, is teaming up with the investment arm of the Malaysian state of Johor in a $1.65 billion bid for KFC Holdings and QSR Brands, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
For Paulson, Even Gold May Not Be a Winner | John A. Paulson, who has suffered the worst losses of his career this year, may not find solace in gold, his standby, as a recent sell-off could translate into a $672.1 million paper loss for his firm, based on its recent holdings, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Paulson Calls for a European Debt Guarantee | John A. Paulson writes in an column in The Financial Times that the European Central Bank should guarantee the Continent's sovereign debt, as a way to stem the crisis without causing inflation.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Bridgewater Is Seen as Targeting Wealthy Families | Bridgewater Associates, the hedge fund run by Ray Dalio that serves institutional investors, appears to some experts to be appealing to wealthy families with a relatively low buy-in price of $100,000, The Connecticut Post reports.
CT POST
Hedge Funds Stymied by Volatility | Even those traders who are accustomed to betting on price swings are finding the current climate difficult to navigate, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Steven Cohen Deposition | Reuters has a link to 242 pages of deposition testimony from the hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen, in which he calls insider trading laws "vague."
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Michael Kors Stock, Like His Frocks, Is Selling Fast | On Wednesday, the Hong Kong-based company priced its initial public offering at $20, valuing the retailer at $3.8 billion.
DealBook 
For Groupon, Faint Praise From Its Underwriters | Many of the banks that helped prepare Groupon for the public markets are hesitant to buy its shares.
DealBook 
Zynga's Reliance on Facebook Raises Concern | At an I.P.O. roadshow luncheon for Zynga this week, investors spent most of the question and answer session asking about Facebook, through which Zynga generates about 95 percent of its revenue, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Pincus Joines the A-List With Zynga I.P.O. | Mark Pincus, the founder of Zynga who has long fantasized about joining Silicon Valley's elite, has finally arrived, writes Gary Rivlin in The Daily Beast.
DAILY BEAST
Glam Media Is Said to Near I.P.O. | Glam Media, the publishing and advertising company geared toward women, is considering Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to lead an I.P.O. next year, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
REUTERS
Facebook's Sandberg to Leave Starbucks Board | Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook, plans to leave the board of Starbucks as Facebook prepares for an initial offering, Bloomberg News reports. 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hong Kong I.P.O.'s Stumble | Chow Tai Fook Jewellery and New China Life Insurance both fell as much as 9 percent after raising a combined $3.9 billion in I.P.O.'s, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
New York's FirstMark Raises $225 Million Fund | FirstMark Capital, a New York venture capital firm, raised $225 million for a new fund, to invest in technology start-ups in the city, The New York Post reports.
NEW YORK POST
Google Plans $120 Million Singapore Investment | The search giant said it will invest $120 million in a data center in Singapore, joining centers in Hong Kong and Taiwan, as it looks to expand in Asia, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Content Discovery Start-Up Raises $35 Million | Outbrain, which helps publishers recommend content to readers online, raised $35 million in a round led by Index Ventures, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
How to Score $40 Million | Jason Goldberg, of the design start-up Fab.com, explains on his blog how he raised $40 million: raising funds, he writes, is "a lot like dating."
BETASHOP | BETABEAT
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
S.E.C. Enforcers Are Said to Seek Appeal of Rakoff Ruling | Enforcement staff at the Securities and Exchange Commission are expected to recommend to S.E.C. commissioners that they vote to appeal the decision by Judge Jed S. Rakoff to toss out the $285 million settlement with Citigroup, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
In Hunt for Securities Fraud, a Timid S.E.C. Misses the Big Game | The Securities and Exchange Commission has been defending its policy to settle securities fraud cases, but the public wants a "Law & Order" moment in the biggest economic fiasco of our time, the financial crisis, Jesse Eisinger writes in The Trade.
DealBook 
Brazil Seeks $11 Billion From Chevron and Transocean | Brazil's federal prosecutor sued the two companies for environmental damage from the November oil spill, asking them to shut down operations in Brazil, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
High Court Spotlight on Right to 'Credit Bid' | The crucial question for the Supreme Court is whether a bankruptcy sale without credit bidding can ever give the lender the "indubitable equivalent" of its secured claim, Stephen J. Lubben writes in his In Debt column.
DealBook 
I.B.M. Settles European Antitrust Case | The European Union's competition regulator accepted I.B.M.'s offer to supply some parts and information to rival companies that service its computers, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Insider Trading Bill Stalls in Congress | The New York Times editorial board writes that action on a bill to restrict lawmakers from trading on inside information was delayed in the House, despite its being an overdue measure.
NEW YORK TIMES
British Regulator Raises Concerns About Dodd-Frank | Adair Turner, chairman of Britain's Financial Services Authority, expressed fears about fragility in the financial system, adding that members of Congress are trying to "starve" regulators of funds, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Olympus's Revised Earnings Show $1 Billion Loss | The company had been hiding the losses for more than a decade, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); JUDGES (75%); MERGERS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (65%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (60%); MARKET SHARE (50%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); SKANDIA INSURANCE CO LTD (62%); FUJIFILM HOLDINGS CORP (60%); CME GROUP INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); LAM RESEARCH CORP (52%); KNIGHT FRANK LLP (52%); TPG CAPITAL LP (50%); SONOSITE INC (50%)

TICKER: 4901 (TSE) (60%); CME (NASDAQ) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); LRCX (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (62%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (62%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (62%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%); SANDY WEILL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



674 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2158 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
MF Global's Risk Officer Said to Lack Authority | Congressional investigators are exploring whether regulators and feeble risk controls allowed MF Global to topple.
A House committee is expected to disclose on Thursday that MF Global, under Jon S. Corzine, stripped critical powers from its top executive in charge of controlling risk, according to a person briefed on the matter.
The move left the firm short-handed as it was grappling with the implications of its $6.3 billion position on European sovereign debt, a trade large enough to wipe out the firm if it soured. DealBook 
Judge Allows MF Global to Continue Using Cash on Hand | A federal judge on Wednesday approved a request by MF Global to continue using about $21.3 million of its cash on hand, allowing the bankrupt brokerage firm to continue operating under Chapter 11. DealBook 
8 Questions for the MF Global Hearing | Terrence A. Duffy, executive chairman of the CME Group, returns to Capitol Hill on Thursday, after testifying earlier that Jon S. Corzine knew MF Global had been misusing customer money. DealBook has prepared eight questions that lawmakers may want to ask Mr. Duffy. DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Weill's Penthouse Wish Granted | After putting his Manhattan penthouse at 15 Central Park West on the market for $88 million, Sanford I. Weill has found a buyer, who is said to be paying the asking price, The Observer reports. OBSERVER
Suspicious Packages Prompt Evacuation of Credit Suisse | Credit Suisse staff members were briefly evacuated from their Manhattan offices on Wednesday after the Swiss bank received two suspicious packages in the mail. The packages were later determined to be harmless. DealBook 
A Big Survivor of American Airlines Cost-Cutting | Reuters found a $30 million London townhouse listed as an asset in American Airlines's bankruptcy filing. "This is a very discreet enclave that is ideal for high-profile residents wanting to live in relative anonymity," an unidentified person at Knight Frank, a real estate group, told Reuters. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Lam Research to Buy Novellus Systems for $3.3 Billion | Lam Research and Novellus, makers of equipment to build semiconductors, have agree to combine in an all-stock transaction in a bid to gain market share. DealBook 
Old Mutual to Sell Its Nordic Business for $3.2 Billion | Old Mutual of Britain has agreed to sell the Skandia Insurance Company, its Nordic savings and banking business, to the Swedish insurance company Skandia Liv for $3.2 billion. DealBook 
SurveyMonkey Valued at $1 Billion as TPG Joins as Investor | In a complex deal, SurveyMonkey, an online survey service, has joined with TPG Capital to acquire a rival, MarketTools. DealBook 
Fujifilm to Buy Medical Equipment Maker | The Fujifilm Holdings Corporation has agreed to buy SonoSite, an American maker of ultrasound and cardiograph equipment, for about $752.8 million in cash, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Live Nation Buys Data Analysis Company | Live Nation Entertainment, the music giant that owns Ticketmaster, is buying BigChampagne, a 10-year-old company that analyzes how people consume media online, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Zipcar to Take Majority Stake in Car Sharer | Zipcar agreed to increase its stake to 60 percent in the Spanish company Avancar, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Oil Companies Buy Leases on 21 Million Acres | Big oil companies, including ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil and BP, submitted winning bids worth $337.6 million for leases to explore for oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Credit Suisse's Latest Cost-Cutting Effort | Credit Suisse will combine the support operations for its investment and private banking divisions as it looks to reduce costs against the backdrop of the sovereign debt crisis. DealBook 
A Top Goldman Executive to Retire | Michael R. Berlinski, who runs the group at Goldman Sachs that caters to private equity firms, is leaving. DealBook 
Lloyds Chief to Return in January From Medical Leave | The Lloyds Banking Group said on Wednesday that Antonio Horta-Osorio planned to return to his post as chief executive in January after a medical leave for exhaustion. DealBook 
An Alternative to Credit Raters | Regulators have proposed a new system of ratings that could one day replace the pronouncements of the credit ratings agencies, free of that industry's conflicts of interest, The New York Times editorial board writes. NEW YORK TIMES
American Depositors Ditch Foreign Banks | Deposits at foreign-owned banks in the United States fall by 25 percent from the end of May to the start of December, the largest six-month drop on record, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
European Banks Feel the Strain | The European sovereign debt crisis continued to punish the Continent's banks, as rates for short-term borrowing in dollars among banks rose to the highest level since July 2009, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fitch Downgrades European Banks | The credit ratings agency Fitch downgraded five European commercial banks and cooperative banking groups, including Credit Agricole, The Associated Press reports. ASSOCIATED PRESS
Smaller Bonuses for Merrill Lynch Executives | Bank of America is planning to cut year-end bonuses for Merrill Lynch executives by as much as 40 percent, compared with last year, Fox Business Network reports, citing unidentified senior people at the firm. FOX BUSINESS NETWORK
PRIVATE EQUITY 
K.K.R. Is Said to Be Among Bidders for WebMD | Four private equity firms, including K.K.R. and Providence Equity Partners, are bidding for the medical information company WebMD, with Monday as the final bidding deadline, The New York Post reports, citing unidentified people. NEW YORK POST
Greek Creditors Are Said to Seek Advice From Blackstone | A committee formed by Greek creditors is close to hiring the Blackstone Group and two law firms to advise it on a debt restructuring, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Carlyle Is Said to Weigh Purchase of Highland Capital Unit | The Carlyle Group is in talks to buy a unit of Highland Capital Management that manages $3 billion in European collateralized loan obligations, but the companies have not reached an agreement, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
CVC in Bid for Malaysia's KFC and Pizza Hut Operators | CVC Capital Partners, the private equity firm based in London, is teaming up with the investment arm of the Malaysian state of Johor in a $1.65 billion bid for KFC Holdings and QSR Brands, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
For Paulson, Even Gold May Not Be a Winner | John A. Paulson, who has posted the worst losses of his career this year, may not find solace in gold, his standby, as a recent sell-off could translate into a $672.1 million paper loss for his firm, based on its recent holdings, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Paulson Calls for a European Debt Guarantee | John A. Paulson writes in an column in The Financial Times that the European Central Bank should guarantee the Continent's sovereign debt as a way to stem the crisis without causing inflation. FINANCIAL TIMES
Bridgewater Is Seen as Targeting Wealthy Families | The hedge fund run by Ray Dalio, Bridgewater Associates, which serves institutional investors, appears to some experts to be appealing to wealthy families with a relatively low buy-in price of $100,000, The Connecticut Post reports. CT POST
Hedge Funds Stymied by Volatility | Even those traders who are accustomed to betting on price swings are finding the current climate difficult to navigate, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Deposition of SAC Capital's Founder | Reuters has a link to 242 pages of deposition testimony from the hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen, in which he calls insider trading laws "vague." REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Michael Kors Stock, Like His Frocks, Is Selling Fast | On Wednesday, the company, which is based in Hong Kong, priced its initial public offering at $20 a share, valuing the retailer at $3.8 billion. DealBook 
For Groupon, Faint Praise From Its Underwriters | Many of the banks that helped prepare Groupon for the public markets are hesitant to buy its shares. DealBook 
Zynga's Reliance on Facebook Raises Concern | At an I.P.O. roadshow luncheon for Zynga this week, investors spent most of the question-and-answer session asking about Facebook, through which Zynga generates about 95 percent of its revenue, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Pincus Joining the A-List With Zynga I.P.O. | Mark Pincus, the founder of Zynga who has long fantasized about joining Silicon Valley's elite, has finally arrived, writes Gary Rivlin in The Daily Beast. DAILY BEAST
Glam Media Is Said to Near I.P.O. | Glam Media, the publishing and advertising company geared toward women, is considering Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to lead an initial offering next year, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Facebook's Sandberg to Leave Starbucks Board | Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook, plans to leave the board of Starbucks as Facebook prepares for an initial offering, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hong Kong I.P.O.'s Stumble | Shares of Chow Tai Fook Jewellery and New China Life Insurance both fell as much as 9 percent after raising a combined $3.9 billion in I.P.O.'s, Reuters reports. REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
New York Venture Firm Raises $225 Million Fund | FirstMark Capital, a New York venture capital firm, raised $225 million for a new fund, to invest in technology start-ups in the city, The New York Post reports. NEW YORK POST
Google Plans $120 Million Singapore Investment | Google said it would invest $120 million in a data center in Singapore, augmenting its centers in Hong Kong and Taiwan, as it looks to expand in Asia, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Content Discovery Start-Up Raises $35 Million | Outbrain, which helps publishers recommend content to readers online, raised $35 million in a round led by Index Ventures, TechCrunch reports. TECHCRUNCH
How to Raise $40 Million | Jason Goldberg, of the design start-up Fab.com, explains on his blog how he raised $40 million. Raising money, he writes, is "a lot like dating." BETASHOP | BETABEAT
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
S.E.C. Enforcers Are Said to Seek Appeal of Rakoff Ruling | Members of the enforcement unit at the Securities and Exchange Commission are expected to recommend that S.E.C. commissioners vote to appeal the decision by Judge Jed S. Rakoff to toss out a $285 million settlement with Citigroup, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation. WALL STREET JOURNAL
In Hunt for Securities Fraud, a Timid S.E.C. Misses the Big Game | The Securities and Exchange Commission has been defending its policy to settle securities fraud cases, but the public wants a "Law & Order" moment in the biggest economic fiasco of our time, the financial crisis, Jesse Eisinger writes in The Trade. DealBook 
Brazil Seeks $11 Billion From Chevron and Transocean | Brazil's federal prosecutor has sued the two companies for environmental damage from the November oil spill, asking them to shut down operations in Brazil, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
High Court Spotlight on Right to 'Credit Bid' | The crucial question for the Supreme Court is whether a bankruptcy sale without credit bidding can ever give the lender the "indubitable equivalent" of its secured claim, Stephen J. Lubben writes in his In Debt column. DealBook 
I.B.M. Settles European Antitrust Case | The European Union's competition regulator accepted I.B.M.'s settlement offer, in which it agreed to supply some parts and information to rival companies that service its computers, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Insider Trading Bill Stalls in Congress | Action on a bill to restrict lawmakers from trading on inside information was delayed in the House, despite its being an overdue measure, The New York Times editorial board writes. NEW YORK TIMES
British Regulator Raises Concerns About Dodd-Frank | Adair Turner, chairman of Britain's Financial Services Authority, expressed fears about fragility in the financial system, adding that members of Congress were trying to "starve" regulators of funds, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Revised Olympus Earnings Report Shows $1 Billion Loss | The Japanese company had been hiding the losses for more than a decade, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); JUDGES (75%); MERGERS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (65%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (60%); MARKET SHARE (50%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); SKANDIA INSURANCE CO LTD (61%); FUJIFILM HOLDINGS CORP (60%); CME GROUP INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); LAM RESEARCH CORP (52%); KNIGHT FRANK LLP (52%); TPG CAPITAL LP (50%); SONOSITE INC (50%)

TICKER: 4901 (TSE) (60%); CME (NASDAQ) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); LRCX (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (61%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (61%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (52%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (52%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%); SANDY WEILL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



675 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: In New Ad, Perry Takes on Romney and Gingrich

BYLINE: RICHARD A. OPPEL JR.


HIGHLIGHT: The ad cites Newt Gingrich's support for raising the federal debt ceiling while he was speaker of the House and Mitt Romney's raising taxes on business while he was governor of Massachusetts. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- With less than three weeks before the Iowa caucuses, Rick Perry is firing his toughest volley yet at Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich, the front-runners in many national polls, with a new commercial that seeks to paint them as "political insiders."
The ad cites Mr. Gingrich's support for raising the federal debt ceiling while he was speaker of the House and Mr. Romney's raising taxes on business while he was governor of Massachusetts.
Notably absent from the commercial, part of Mr. Perry's multimillion-dollar ad blitz in Iowa, is any mention of the man who has moved into second place in this state according to several polls: Representative Ron Paul of Texas.
In the commercial, the narrator says: "Reckless spending and high taxes are destroying our economy. The problem? Political insiders. Newt Gingrich supported increasing the federal debt ceiling one trillion dollars and billions in new earmarks. Mitt Romney raised business taxes 20 percent in Massachusetts. Gingrich and Romney. Insiders."
As the narrator speaks, the screen shows pictures of Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich, including one in which they appear to be laughing together. Then the screen shows Mr. Perry touring a home construction site and talking with workers while the narrator says, "Rick Perry's plans to create jobs and overhaul Washington with a part-time Congress make him the outsider political insiders fear most."
The Texas governor's only line is: "I'm Rick Perry, and I approve this message."
While the commercial appears to be Mr. Perry's toughest attack yet on the two men, it remains to be seen whether it will bolster the fortunes of Mr. Perry, the onetime front-runner who in most polls has sunk to the single digits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); DEBT CEILING (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); JOB CREATION (65%) The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (94%); RICK PERRY (91%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



676 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Have You Heard the Bad News?

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Links to stories that will get you down. Enjoy! 

 BODY:
In a funk after my morningposts on the National Defense Authorization Act, I scanned the Internet looking for a pick-me-up, but just found more reasons to feel bad.
Newt Gingrich told the Des Moines Register this morning that gay people "have a significant range of choice within a genetic pattern." He also noted, "Look, people choose to be celibate."
The latest census data classifies nearly 1 in 2 Americans as poor or low-income.
A Center on Education Policy report indicates that 48 percent of public schools failed to meet No Child Left Behind standards in 2011. (That's up from 39 percent in 2010.)
In the Economist magazine's latest Democracy Index, the United States ranks 19th out of 25 in the "full democracies" group.
A Moody's Analytics report suggests that Greece, Italy, Portugal and Ireland are on track to default without drastic cuts or an external bailout, and that Spain is close to that point.
Finally, in the depressing-but-amusing category: Herman Cain, who can hardly use Libya in a sentence, says he'd like to run the department of defense.

        
I Solemnly Pledge to Be Good as Can Be
        
The Most Important Election Ever
        
Opinion Report: European Austerity
        
Newt Gingrich Meets With Donald Trump and Other Strange Events
        
Opinion Report: Ted Stevens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); CENSUS (71%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (70%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (70%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%) European debt crisis; Newt Gingrich; Gingrich, Newt; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Center on Education Policy

ORGANIZATION: Center on Education Policy

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); TED STEVENS (58%); DONALD TRUMP (50%) Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (77%); GREECE (53%); PORTUGAL (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



677 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: What Iraqis Think of the American Withdrawal: Mosul and Basra

BYLINE: STEPHEN FARRELL and BAGHDAD BUREAU


HIGHLIGHT: At opposite ends of the country, Basra and Mosul are Iraq's second- and third-largest cities, but with two very distinct populations. 

 BODY:
At opposite ends of the country, Basra and Mosul are Iraq's second- and third-largest cities. In the north, Mosul lies near the oil-rich Arab-Kurdish fault line, and is inhabited by Arabs and Kurds. It was the military bastion from which Saddam Hussein crushed the Kurds. One of the deadliest areas of the post-2003 Sunni insurgency, violence there was fueled more by Arab-Kurdish hostilities than the Sunni-Shiite tensions farther south. 
MOSUL
Mahmoud Saed Zaki, 47, Goldsmith
1. Iraq's situation depends on the government, not on the U.S. withdrawal. If the situation remains bad it won't change, even if the U.S. troops stay. I believe it will get worse because of the lack of readiness of our security forces to take serious and full responsibility for the country.
2. We may not know whether the Americans got what they wanted from Iraq, but it is clear that they had great benefits from the Iraqi oil, and the toppling of Saddam for being the biggest enemy of Israel.
3. I had no benefits from the Americans except personal freedom. Neither any losses, because I didn't deal with them.
Mayada Abdul Rahman Younis, 37, Lawyer
1. I think the situation will get better after the U.S. leaves Iraq but not soon, it may take a while. I believe that even Iraq's political problems will be solved after the withdrawal.
2. They achieved what they came for, which is to control the Middle East and Iraq's oil.
3. I personally had no benefits but definitely our society did, especially with the presence of NGOs, which didn't exist before 2003.
Emad Sabeeh Dawood Hasso, 57, Christian, Unemployed
1. I foresee that the country will witness the return of armed militants after the U.S. withdrawal and the situation will get worse because the government has no credibility concerning the stability of the country. It is a sectarian government, biased toward certain sects, which creates troubles in the country. I want America to stay, to keep Iraq safe.
2. It is widely known that they achieved their goals, and they wouldn't leave if they had achieved nothing.
3. The only benefit I got was sending my brother to the U.S. because he worked for an organization which came with the Americans after 2003.
BASRA
In the south, Basra is geographically far closer to Iran and Kuwait than to Baghdad. Its population is overwhelmingly Shiite but unlike Iran, are Arabs. Basra was marginalized and starved of investment under Saddam's repressive Sunni-dominated regime, and after the 2003 invasion fell prey to extremist religious militias, some loyal to Iranian clerics. In 2008 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Malik launched an American-backed offensive to clear the city. Now hoping to exploit the vast oil reserves under its soil, Basra's population looks enviously at its much more developed Gulf neighbors.
Dr. Hamid al-Timimi, 44, Sunni Arab From Zubair
1. The situation was bad when the U.S. was here, how will it be any better when the Americans are gone? We are going to witness a black situation because we do not have any political figure that has a spirit of Iraqi citizenship.
2. What the Americans have accomplished was sectarian issues between us, and this is the most dangerous disease that Iraq has been through in its history. We lost national unity because of what is called "democracy," and the new Iraq.
3. If America stays here they will be just like a ghost that only does harm.
Abdulbaki Farhan, 52, Antiques Shop Owner
1. The situation will not get better with or without the Americans; as long as we see the same faces in the government there will be no change. What we need is new blood, the next generation.
2. The Americans have accomplished nothing. I lost my brother because he left Iraq. He is a professor in the university where many of his colleagues were killed and threatened.
3. If the Americans stay the situation will be worse because that will give the militias that are supported by Iran an excuse to remain in the streets, and in that way the security situation will be worse and the U.S. will lose more soldiers.
Hatem Ed Imam, 51, Businessman
1.Things will get worse in Iraq after the U.S. withdrawal on all levels: security, the economy and services. We are not ready for this withdrawal.
2. America wanted to accomplish many things here, but the militias were attacking them so America was too busy protecting its troops and forgot about Iraq.
3. The withdrawal of the forces is not our will, but Obama promised his people that he will bring them back in his first speech, so he must keep his promise to his people, and there isn't really much that we can do about that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); RELIGION (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Iraq War (2003- ); Kurds; Basra (Iraq); Iraq; Mosul (Iraq); Iraq War: 2003 - 2011

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Basra (Iraq); Iraq; Mosul (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



678 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5176 words

HEADLINE: Live Blogging the Fox News Debate in Iowa

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Seven candidates take the stage tonight in Sioux City, Iowa, for the final debate before the Jan. 3 caucuses. 

 BODY:
Seven candidates take the stage tonight in Sioux City, Iowa, for the final debate before the Jan. 3 caucuses.
We'll be providing real-time analysis and fact-checking on our live dashboard, and also taking suggestions from readers for candidate statements that deserve a closer look. You can submit them via Twitter with the hashtag #asknyt or on the dashboard.
- Debate Preview: Final Debate of 2011 Poses Dangers for Hopefuls
- Debate Live Blog
11:57 P.M. | Debate Wrap
The last presidential debate of 2011 is over, and the final stretch before voting is about to begin. Stay tuned to The Caucus for non-stop coverage of the final flurry of candidate events, ads and interviews in the next 19 days (and beyond). And come back to the New York Times for in-depth coverage of the campaigns. 
- 
11:20 P.M. | Fact Check: Obama and Debt
Mitt Romney said that under President Obama, the United States has "racked up as much debt as almost all of the other presidents combined."
But the numbers don't work. The national debt stood at $10.626 trillion on the day that Mr. Obama took office. It now stands slightly above $15 trillion.
Mr. Romney has made this claim before and, when asked to defend it, his campaign has said that he is referring to a subset of the nation's total debt - the portion of the debt that is owed to private investors. This excludes the portion of the debt borrowed from pots of government funds, like Social Security.
But those numbers don't work either. The debt held by private investors stood at $6.307 trillion on the day Mr. Obama took office. Today it stands at $10.393 trillion.
Of course, Mr. Romney said "almost" and that means the statement is not actually false. The numbers work fine if one excludes the presidency of George W. Bush.
Mr. Romney also has sometimes made a slightly different claim that also may prove true: He has said the debt will have doubled by the time Mr. Obama leaves office.
- 
11:17 P.M. | Voters' View: A 'Safe' Debate
There's only one word to describe this debate, the guests in Iowa say: Safe.
"No one really jumped out at me," Mr. Stanley said.
Mr. Finnegan, a committed Romney supporter, added, "Everyone had a good moment."
But there were losers, they said.
"It polarized me against Michele Bachmann a lot more because she said nothing better than anyone," Mr. Englebart said. "I think she was the loser of the debate. And I think Jon Huntsman also lost."
Mr. Finnegan added, "Huntsman reminded me of a bowl of plain Cheerios. Santorum, I think he's a great guy. He gave all the right answers but I just don't think he can get people motivated."
Mr. Englebert said, "I'll be excited if Romney gets the nomination but at this point " **Note to readers, here comes some breaking news**: "I'm going to caucus for Ron Paul."
"It got down to Romney and Paul for me," Mr. Englebart explained. "Romney's past just bothers me because he was the governor of a very liberal state so even if you're a Republican here, you're moderate."
As far as Mr. Stanley, he said he needs to hear more.
"You'll be hearing a lot more about Romney from me!" Mr. Finnegan said.
On Romney: "I think he did well," Mr. Finnegan added. "He played it safe."
How safe?
"Nothing made me cringe," he said.
- 
11:06 P.M. | Fact Check: Mexico as Staging Ground for Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said that Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas "are using Mexico as a way to penetrate into the southern part of the United States."
He has suggested in the past that Hamas and Hezbollah are working in Mexico, and when asked for an explanation, his campaign has cited a recent report by the American Enterprise Institute. But the A.E.I. report makes no mention of Hamas - the Palestinian militant group that controls Gaza - in Mexico.
And a recent State Department report also said that there are no Hezbollah-related operational cells in this hemisphere. Hezbollah is the Shiite political and militant group in Lebanon that is backed by Iran and Syria.
The Mexican ambassador to the United States has also denied these claims.
- 
11:05 P.M. | Fact Check: Iran's Nuclear Program
Michele Bachmann and Ron Paul clashed over one of the most important foreign policy issues the next president will face: the possibility that Iran will build a nuclear weapon. Mr. Paul suggested that the International Atomic Energy Agency, part of the United Nations, had said there was "no evidence" that Iran was within a year of building a nuclear weapon. Ms. Bachmann asserted that the I.A.E.A. had said "literally Iran is within just months of being able to obtain that weapon," adding of Mr. Paul's statement that "nothing could be more dangerous than the comments that we just heard." In fact, while the agency's long-awaited report cited "credible" evidence that the Islamic republic had carried out "activities relevant to the development of a nuclear device," it did not say a weapon was months away.
- 
11:04 P.M. | Bachmann Takes Issue With Gingrich on the Facts
Watch a Video Clip
Mrs. Bachmann accused Mr. Gingrich of having said he would support Republican lawmakers who supported partial birth abortion.
Mrs. Bachmann is making a strong push for the support of the conservative, religious voters in Iowa, for whom that issue is a big one.
She called it a "very serious issue" and suggested that conservatives who care about the issue of abortion should know the actions Mr. Gingrich took as speaker.
Mr. Gingrich disputed her allegations, saying that she often has her facts wrong.
"I belief that life begins at conception," Mr. Gingrich said. "I am against any kind of experimentation on embryos."
Mrs. Bachmann responded angrily, not on the substance of the issue of abortion, but on the suggest that she gets her facts wrong.
"It's outrageous to continue to say over and over throughout the debates that I don't have my facts right, when I do," she said. "I'm a serious candidate for president of the United States and I do have my facts right."
- 
10:56 P.M. | Santorum Criticizes Romney on Gay Marriage
Mr. Santorum blasted Mr. Romney for allowing gay marriages in his state after the state's supreme court said they could not stop them.
"He personally, as governor, issued gay marriage licenses," Mr. Santorum alleged.
Mr. Romney disputed the charge, emphatically saying that he has been a "champion" of traditional marriage for many years.
"I fought, leading an effort to put in place a constitutional amendment," he said. "I want to make it very clear, I have been a champion of protecting traditional marriage."
- 
10:54 P.M. | Fact Check: Obama, Iran and the Drone
Mitt Romney accused President Obama of having said "pretty please" to Iran to return an American stealth drone that malfunctioned and landed on Iranian territory, and Rick Perry said a better choice would have been to destroy or retrieve the high-tech American aircraft to keep from revealing American technological secrets. In fact, American military officials considered an operation to retrieve the drone but rejected it as too dangerous, since it would require a sizeable force traveling more than 200 miles into the country and likely facing a large Iranian protection force. Mr. Obama did say of the drone at a news conference that "we have asked for it back" but suggested he did not expect that would happen. Iran mocked the request.
- 
10:53 P.M. | Gingrich Appears to Toughen Stance on Immigration
Mr. Gingrich sought to toughen his position on illegal immigration, saying he would drop the government's lawsuits against states like Arizona who have implemented new tough immigration laws.
He also said he would cut off federal aid to any "sanctuary city," where local governments decline to enforce federal immigration laws.
And he said he would begin working to control the border by 2014.
Mr. Gingrich's position on immigration has been criticized by his rivals, especially when he argued that some illegal immigrants who have lived in the country a long time should be allowed to stay.
He dismissed that as a small difference, but insisted that his proposals would bring "fundamental" change to immigration laws in the country.
- 
10:51 P.M. | Voters' View: Weakness on Immigration Action
The round of questions on immigration did not stir any passion over here.
"Every Republican candidate has said they're going to do something about immigration, have they done anything?" Mr. Finnegan said. "Seems like immigration is one of those topics that people can talk about and sound great, but in the end, nothing happens."
Mr. Englebart added, "I think we have bigger problems."
Mitt Romney: is principle or politics behind changing positions?
"I've learned over time," Mr. Romney said.
Good answer?
"He's cool with Chris, see Chris was trying to trap him," Mr. Finnegan said.
But the questioning continued, and as Mr. Romney went on trying to explain the changing of his past positions, Mr. Finnegan lost him. 
"I'm bored right now," Mr. Finnegan said.
And Mr. Englebart added, "I'm very confused right now."
"I think everyone is," Mr. Finnegan added.
- 
10:37 P.M. | Romney Hands-Off on Gingrich
The debate still has another half-hour to go, but so far, Mr. Romney has not said a single, critical thing about Mr. Gingrich, his chief rival in the race.
Why? 
One possibility is that he is worried that an attack would backfire, angering people in Iowa and New Hampshire who are now paying attention closely to the race.
He also might be worried about Mr. Gingrich, whose is often very quick with a witty response that could defuse the attack or even turn it back on Mr. Romney.
Aides to Mr. Romney have said they believe that the amount of criticism being heaped on Mr. Gingrich by the other candidates has begun to chip away at Mr. Gingrich's support. So maybe he is letting his rivals attack.
But whatever the reason, it's clear that Mr. Romney and his top advisers have decided that it's better to let others bring those issues to Mr. Gingrich.
Will it work? We may know in 19 days, when Iowans go to the caucuses.
- 
10:32 P.M. | Huntsman Makes the Most of It
Mr. Huntsman has not gotten a lot of air time during the debate, but he made the most of the time he did have. When a telltale Google Chat "ding" signaled that his answer about the role of the United Nations needed to wind down, Mr. Huntsman began speed-speaking, trying to eke out the rest of his response, and continuing even through protests from the moderator.
"Two dings on that one," Mr. Baier said, when Mr. Huntsman finally finished.
- 
10:31 P.M. | Fact Check: Bachmann and PolitiFact
Earlier in the debate, Mrs. Bachmann said that after Saturday's debate, the truth squadding site PolitiFact "came out and said that everything that I said was true."
Well, not exactly. 
In something of a meta-truth-squadding moment, PolitiFact disputed Mrs. Bachmann's claim on its fact-checking site:
In fact, Bachmann earned two ratings from us at that debate, a Mostly True for her claim that Newt Gingrich advocated for the individual mandate in health care and a Pants on Fire for her claim that Mitt Romney set up a health plan in Massachusetts that is "socialized medicine."
- 
10:29 P.M. | Gingrich's Self-Awareness 
Some politicians seem unaware of how people see them. Mr. Gingrich does not seem to be one of them.
Asked about Mr. Obama's delay of an oil pipeline across the country, Mr. Gingrich smiled and noted that he sometimes is accused of using heated language.
"I'm trying not to be zany," Mr. Gingrich joked, a reference to Mr. Romney's use of the word to describe Mr. Gingrich during a New York Times interview.
He then called Mr. Obama's decision to delay the pipeline project "utterly irrational" and suggested that the president was putting a tax cut at risk to help environmentalists in San Francisco.
He said that would make "no sense to any normal, rational human being."
- 
10:27 P.M. | Bachmann and Paul Disagree on Iran
Mrs. Bachmann accused Mr. Paul of offering a "dangerous" suggestion, saying that his failure to block Iran's pursuit of a nuclear weapon would put the American people at risk.
His suggestion of working with the Iranians to stop them from working on a weapon could end up being "the greatest under reaction in world history."
Mr. Paul quickly took offense, and got agitated.
"You cannot solve these problems with war," Mr. Paul said, raising his voice. "Only when we declare the war, go in and win them and get them over with."
Mrs. Bachmann refused to give in, however, insisting that the United Nations has warned that Iranians are close to a nuclear capability.
"They have no evidence. There has been no enrichment," Mr. Paul protested.
- 
10:24 P.M. | Voters' View: Dealing With Iran
Since the "friendly ding" hasn't worked to get the candidates to stick to their allotted time, Mr. Stanley suggests having a live band play, like at the Oscars.
Just a suggestion from the viewers, Fox News.
The round of questions on Iran really got the blood pumping over here, with lots of kudos going to Mr. Santorum and Ms. Bachmann for their hawkish answers.
Ron Paul scored a few points with Mr. Englebart, although not with the other guests.
"He's trying to get us to look at the big picture," he said, "we really can't afford to police the world anymore. I do object to completely pulling out everywhere. I agree that we need to shrink our presence in countries that have been our allies for hundreds of years."
- 
10:12 P.M. | Paul Would Stay Out of Iran
Trying to get Ron Paul to support international intervention appears to be fruitless.
Mr. Baier tried repeatedly to see if a President Ron Paul would intervene if Iran acquired a nuclear weapon or tried to close global trade routes.
No go.
"It's another Iraq coming. It's war propaganda going on," Mr. Paul said. "I would say that the greatest danger is overreacting."
Mr. Paul, who has repeatedly criticized the American wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, acknowledged that his position on the issue is "to the left" of Mr. Obama.
But he insisted that there would be no reason to get the United States involved in activities against Iran that Israel and others in the Middle East don't want.
"We don't need another war," he said.
- 
10:08 P.M. | Voters' View: Lack of Conflict
Are things too civil tonight?
"I'd like to see more fighting," Mr. Finnegan said. "Let's face it, this is a debate. This is not, 'Hey, let's all agree that puppies and kittens are great!' You've got to show that you can take hits and fire them, too."
(Mr. Finnegan's puppy, Dempsey, just fell asleep. But let's not read too much into that.)
Mr. Englebart disagreed with his friend. "I like the message that they're bringing out, instead of constant bickering, which is the norm. But at the same time, you do need to point out that you're different from so-and-so."
Mr. Finnegan added, "I think they're pandering to Iowans, who don't like negative attacks."
- 
10:07 P.M. | A Calmer Romney?
Watch a Video Clip
Is Mitt Romney taking it slower tonight?
It seems that way. His speaking style, which can sometimes seem hurried and punchy, sounds calmer and more deliberate tonight. On Twitter tonight, throughout the debate, the slight adjustment in tone has been noticed, and generally praised.
"Romney always better when he slooooows down," Mike Murphy, a longtime Republican political strategist, wrote on Twitter, soon after Mr. Romney delivered his first few answers.
"Slow = steady and strong,"Mr. Murphy said in a follow-up email. "Always helps in a debate."
- 
10:04 P.M. | Picking a Model Justice
The Republicans on the stage tonight want to be what George W. Bush once called the "decider-in-chief."
But asked to name a favorite justice on the Supreme Court, none of them wanted to decide.
"Roberts, Thomas, Scalia and Alito," Mr. Romney said.
"That's as good a list as any," Mr. Gingrich said.
Pressed, Mr. Paul said: "All of them are good and all of them are bad."
- 
9:59 P.M. | Friend of the Court?
When in doubt, bash the courts.
The Republican candidates for president took aim Thursday night at the courts, tapping into frustration among conservatives with what they consider activist, liberal courts.
Mr. Gingrich called the courts "grotesquely irresponsible," and pledged to rein in the power of judges if he were president, dismissing criticism of his ideas.
"We do not have a judicial dictatorship in this country," Mr. Gingrich said. He noted that he told justices of the Supreme Court that if "you keep attacking the core base of American exceptionalism, you will find an uprising."
Mrs. Bachmann sided with Mr. Gingrich, saying that "we've gotten to the point where we think the final arbiter of law is the court system. It isn't."
"If we give to the courts the right to make law then the people will have lost their representation," Mrs. Bachmann said.
Mr. Romney agreed that the Congress has the right to rewrite laws if they think courts have made the wrong call in a decision.
- 
9:58 P.M. | Voters' View: Rick Perry Fading
Rick Perry's suggestion that Congress should be part-time, "like in Texas," left the friends here in Iowa confused. A quick rewind was in order. Yes, they heard him right.
"He's basically saying he wants to shrink Congress's power and inflate executive power," Mr. Englebart said.
"Well, that's going against what a lot us believe," Mr. Finnegan said, shaking his head. "Rick, whatever you say "
The consensus seems to be that the friends have given up on Mr. Perry. I'm not sure there's much he can do to regain their confidence at this point. 
When Mr. Gingrich took on what he characterized the overzealous judiciary, spouting facts from history books, Mr. Finnegan said, "Newt knows his facts."
"So smart," Mr. Stanley added.
When Ms. Bachmann answered the same question, the friends' response was different.
"She's the Republican, female Barack Obama," Mr. Englebart said. "Very canned, safe answer."
"Republican female Obama? Thank you for that image. I needed a laugh, Englebart," Mr. Finnegan said.
- 
9:50 P.M. | Fact Check: Fannie and Freddie, Today
Michele Bachmann described the mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as "the epicenter of the mortgage financial meltdown" and called for the companies to be shut down.
Fannie and Freddie provide money for mortgage lending by purchasing loans from banks and other lenders, then packaging those loans into securities for sale to investors. Crucially, they guarantee that investors will not lose money if borrowers fail to repay the loans.
That has proved an expensive guarantee. The companies ran out of money in 2008 and the government was forced to take control. So far the bailout has cost taxpayers more than $150 billion.
But the companies also now provide funding for about two-thirds of new mortgage loans. And while private investors might be willing to take their place, it is not likely that the private market will offer the same generous terms that Americans have come to expect.
In particular, as I wrote earlier this year, it might become very difficult to get a 30-year loan with a fixed interest rate - a product that has only ever been broadly available with government support.
- 
9:48 P.M. | Perry's Part-Time Congress
Some of the biggest applause of the night came in response to a proposal by Mr. Perry - to make Congress a part-time Congress.
Mr. Perry repeatedly makes the proposal on the stump, and punched his finger repeatedly into his podium as he said members of Congress should have their pay and time and staff cut in half.
"I call for a part time Congress," he said, adding later that lawmakers should come to Washington only every other year.
- 
9:44 P.M. | Voters' View: No Candidate Winning Yet
"I think the first segment was pretty clean, really safe," Mr. Englebart said. "Very safe answers. Basic introductions, no one's really winning yet."
When co-moderator Chris Wallace introduced a segment called, "D.C. Culture," the guests here were ready to see some fireworks. But they found the first response, from Mitt Romney, to be quite civil. And good.
"To create jobs, it helps to have created jobs," Mr. Romney said.
The guests liked how Mr. Romney's comments were aimed at President Obama, and not at the other candidates. "Very good answer," Mr. Englebart said.
When Ron Paul stung Mr. Gingrich about being involved with Freddie Mac in what he criticized as "government-sponsored enterprise, big business and big government getting together," Mr. Finnegan said, "Paul has some good answers, I have to say."
Mr. Englebart added, "Well, he knows his ideas, he knows his information."
The guests thought Michele Bachmann's jab at Mr. Gingrich was less effective.
"She needs her last hurrah," Mr. Finnegan said. "I think after Iowa, she's going to drop out."
- 
9:41 P.M. | Neither Romney Nor Gingrich Eager to Engage
Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich appear less than eager to engage each other directly, perhaps concerned that face-to-face attacks might backfire in the days before voting begins here.
Prodded repeatedly by the moderator Chris Wallace, Mr. Romney refused to even mention Mr. Gingrich or refer to him the way he has in recent days.
"I think the president is going to make the same attack," Mr. Romney said, quickly shifting a question to an attack on Mr. Obama rather than a critique of Mr. Gingrich.
"This president doesn't know how the economy works," he said.
If Mr. Romney is hoping that his other rivals will attack Mr. Gingrich in his stead, he may be on to something.
Given the chance, Mrs. Bachmann jumped at the chance to criticize the former speaker on his willingness to work for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage giants.
"I was trying to see these two entities put into bankruptcy," she said, "when the speaker had his hand out to take $1.6 million....to keep the scam going in Washington D.C."
Mr. Gingrich was forced to defend himself, saying that what she said was "just not true."
- 
9:29 P.M. | Gingrich Claims Military Credentials (Sort Of)
Why does Mr. Gingrich refer so often to his being the longest-serving teacher of one- and two-star admirals in "the art of war"? Jackie Gingrich Cushman, his daughter, noted this last year in an article in Human Events in which she defended her father against various charges, including that he had never served in the military.
"As the son of a career Army officer, Dad has translated his love for the United States military into serving the military," she wrote. "Dad is the longest-serving teacher of the Joint Flag Officer Warfighting Course at the Air University. He has taught 44 courses there during the past 23 years. He also teaches officers from all five services as a distinguished visiting scholar and professor at the National Defense University, and has been doing so since it started in 1983."
- 
9:26 P.M. | Fact Check: The Budget Under Speaker Gingrich
Newt Gingrich has made a campaign theme out of how the economy improved when he was last in office, as speaker of the House in the 1990s. In his first answer, challenged about his conservative credentials, Mr. Gingrich said he was responsible for four consecutive balanced budgets and paid down $400 billion in the national debt.
But in only two years when he was speaker was the budget balanced, in fiscal 1998 and 1999. Although the government remained in the black for two more years, Mr. Gingrich left office in January 1999 and had no role in those later budgets. The total surplus when he was speaker was $194.9 billion, not $400 billion.
And it takes two to tango - Mr. Gingrich didn't mention that these years of government surpluses were the result of policies that fostered an economic boom, many worked out with President Clinton. Mr. Gingrich opposed a 1993 tax increase widely credited with helping to begin reducing the deficit.
- 
9:25 P.M. | Gingrich and Romney Agree: Washington Needs Leadership
Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich agree: leadership is the key to getting Washington out of gridlock.
The two rivals both answered a question about working with Congress by drawing on their past experiences.
Mr. Romney said his experience as governor of a state with a largely Democratic legislature proved his ability to work with the opposition party. Mr. Gingrich said his experience working with former president Bill Clinton did the same.
"Leadership matters immensely in getting this done," Mr. Gingrich said.
"We need to have a leader in the White House that knows how to lead," Mr. Romney said.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Voters' View: Little Support for Huntsman
When the Fox News host Bret Baier turned to Jon M. Huntsman, Jr., the former governor of Utah, Mr. Finnegan said, "Huntsman? I didn't know he was going to be on stage tonight. Until he blinked, I thought he was a statue."
Mr. Huntsman used strong language to suggest that Americans aren't getting a fair deal from government.
"Did he say screwed?" Mr. Finnegan exclaimed. "I've never heard a candidate say that we're being screwed."
Mr. Stanley added, "I don't think I like it."
- 
9:16 P.M. | Romney Holding Fire on Gingrich...So Far
Watch a Video
Given a first chance to hit Mr. Gingrich's experience, Mr. Romney took a pass.
Asked why he would have a better chance of arguing the conservative case against Mr. Obama, Mr. Romney cited his own record as a businessman and didn't mention Mr. Gingrich.
"I spent my life, my career in the private sector," he said. "I can debate President Obama on that record. I know what it takes to get this economy going. The president doesn't."
Expect that tactic to change, however, as the debate goes on. Mr. Romney has spent the last several days hitting Mr. Gingrich's experience, and it would be remarkable if he passed up the opportunity to do it on national television.
- 
9:15 P.M. | Voters' View: Who Can Beat Obama
Ron Paul said that he thinks anybody on the stage could beat President Obama. But the friends here don't agree.
"You could have a candidate who's perfect for the party, exactly what people want here but if they can't beat Obama, it makes no sense to go for that person," Mr. Finnegan said. "Rick Santorum, he's a great guy but he's not going to beat Obama. I feel the same way about Newt. I think Obama would have a heyday with Newt."
Mr. Englebart added of Mr. Santorum, "He's just not charismatic enough."
Another friend has joined the group, Nick Stanley, 27. "Right now, I'd say I'm behind Newt-slash-undecided. I just don't know yet."
- 
9:11 P.M. | Gingrich Assures He Could Beat Obama
Watch a Video Clip
Mr. Gingrich quickly invoked Ronald Reagan in the opening minutes of the debate, comparing himself to the Gipper, suggesting that he will beat President Obama as handily as Mr. Reagan beat Jimmy Carter.
"I believe I can debate Barack Obama," Mr. Gingrich said in answer to questions about his electability. He predicted that Mr. Obama "will not have a leg to stand on trying to defend a record that is terrible and an ideology that is radical."
Bret Baier, one of the moderators of the debate, quickly pressed Mr. Gingrich on the persistent questions about whether he is a true conservative.
"On the conservative thing, it's sort of laughable," Mr. Gingrich said, citing his efforts to balance budget and pass welfare reform. "People just have to decide."
- 
9:05 P.M. | And We're Off!
The debate is underway. Get ready for a potentially loud and raucous affair - the audience is made up of more than 1,600 Republican activists, all ready for lots of hooting and hollering.
All seven of the major candidates are on the stage, and each has plenty at stake. With less than three weeks left in voting before people here in Iowa gather for their caucuses.
Newt Gingrich leads in the polls here, followed closely by Ron Paul and Mitt Romney. But all of the candidates are looking for a final, momentum-building edge.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Voters' View: Watching the Debate With Undecided Voters
Patrick Finnegan, a Republican mortgage specialist in Des Moines is hosting a small party tonight in honor of the last debate of the year. Mr. Finnegan, 27, is on a mission to convince several of his friends to vote for his favorite candidate, Mitt Romney, but so far, he is encountering some resistance.
"I'll give you a hug if you pick Romney!" Mr. Finnegan said to his first guest, Tyler Englebart.
But Mr. Englebart, who is undecided, was not persuaded: "I think that's more of a reason not to, you know what I mean?"
And so it goes. (I have the feeling that Mr. Finnegan is not going to give up that easily . . . I'll let you know.)
Mr. Englebart, 24, a loan specialist at a major bank in Des Moines, is not particularly pleased that he does not yet have a candidate to call his own. "It's getting down to the wire," he said. "I'm a really sure guy as far as my decisions. I'm the guy who's 10 minutes early to things. That I haven't made a decision bothers me because I take it seriously."
"I'm not really sold on anybody yet," he added.
Tonight is important, both friends agree.
"This is definitely their last chance to get their voice out there, take the hits, and of course the audience is going to gauge the appropriateness of their attacks," Mr. Englebart said.
Mr. Finnegan added, "I think the candidates need to step it up because there are a lot of Tylers out there who are not that excited yet. The candidates need to reach out to the Tylers of Iowa, because there are a lot of them."
- 
8:10 P.M. | Candidates Engage Ahead of Debate
The lights won't go on at tonight's Fox News debate until 9 p.m. Eastern, but the Republican candidates have already spent the day in a rhetorical sparring match as the clock ticks toward voting day in less than three weeks.
The candidates began arriving at the Sioux City Hotel and Convention Center for the debate Thursday afternoon for what will be the final debate of the year, and the last one before Iowans gather for the caucus on Jan. 3.
The debate promises to be a testy clash between the two leading candidates, Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich, as well as their rivals struggling to gain some momentum in the race.
Even as they prepared for Thursday night's event, the candidates and their aides continued to campaign. Read about today's pre-debate activities.
- 
6:54 P.M. | High Stakes for Last Debate of 2011
No bigger danger remains for the Republican presidential candidates - and especially for the leaders in the race, Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich - than Thursday night's debate.
With 19 days left before the Iowa caucuses, the candidates' final face-off of 2011 is less of an opportunity to be seized than it is a nationally televised political obstacle course to be navigated very carefully.
A good performance in Sioux City, Iowa, where Fox News is sponsoring the debate, could provide some new momentum for a candidate. But a strong showing is unlikely to substantially change the dynamic between the leading contenders or the rivals chasing after them. 
A major mistake, however, has an outsize potential, once again, to scramble a race that has remained fluid and unpredictable for months.
We'll begin live coverage around 8:30 p.m. Eastern time; in the meantime, read my debate preview.
- 

        
Iowa Republican Debate Blog
        
Live Blogging the National Security Debate
        
Highlights From the Republican Debate in S.C.
        
Live Blogging the Michigan Debate
        
Live Blogging the CNN Debate in Las Vegas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%) debates; live blogging; Elections

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); MICHELE BACHMANN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



679 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Engage Ahead of Debate

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The lights won't go on at tonight's Fox News debate until 9 p.m. Eastern, but the Republican candidates have already spent the day in a rhetorical sparring match. 

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, Iowa -- The lights won't go on at tonight's Fox News debate until 9 p.m. Eastern, but the Republican candidates have already spent the day in a rhetorical sparring match as the clock ticks toward voting day in less than three weeks.
The candidates began arriving at the Sioux City Hotel and Convention Center on Thursday afternoon for what will be the final debate of the year, and the last one before Iowans gather for the caucus on Jan. 3.
The debate promises to be a testy clash between the two leading candidates, Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich, as well as their rivals struggling to gain some momentum in the race.
The televised debates have done much to shape the 2012 Republican nomination contest, providing a boost for some candidates, like Mr. Gingrich. Others, like Rick Perry, have struggled during the face-offs.
But even as they prepared for Thursday night's event, the candidates and their aides continued to campaign. 
Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas, unveiled a new ad on Thursday describing Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich as "political insiders" who are to blame for "reckless spending and high taxes" that are destroying the economy.
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who has been rising in the Iowa polls as election day nears, accused Mr. Gingrich of having received "several deferments" from draft boards to avoid serving in the military.
"He chose not to go. Now he'll send our kids to war," Mr. Paul, who served in the United States Air Force, said on Fox News.
Mr. Romney did not appear publicly on Thursday, leaving it to his campaign operatives to continue his several-day assault on Mr. Gingrich's record and his character. The campaign sent several e-mails criticizing Mr. Gingrich's past statements about the Republican budget proposals earlier this year.
"When Republicans took one of the most courageous votes I've seen in at least a decade to call for the reform of Medicare under the Paul Ryan plan, he goes public and says this is a 'right-wing social engineering' plan," Mr. Romney said in one of the releases.
Mr. Romney's campaign continued to press their case that Mr. Gingrich is an "unreliable" conservative. And in just before the debate, Mr. Romney argues that "It is a moral responsibility to believe in fiscal responsibility. We do and I do."
Campaigning in Fort Dodge, Iowa, Mr. Gingrich promised to stay positive in the debate, saying voters would appreciate his avoiding the kind of negative attacks coming from his rivals.
Mr. Gingrich said in a television interview earlier in the day that "it was foolish on my part" to criticize Mr. Romney for profiting from his time at Bain Capital, an attack that drew considerable fire from conservatives who suggested Mr. Gingrich was lashing out at capitalism.
"I do regret taking a shot at Mitt," Mr. Gingrich said in an interview on Iowa Press, a public affairs program on Iowa Public Television.
He added, "It violated all the core principles that I have in terms of trying to stay positive despite temptation. It also communicated something I don't believe in. I think people who run those companies have an obligation to run the companies effectively and to do the best they can."
His comments came hours before the debate and seemed to be an attempt to get ahead of a line of attack that Mr. Romney's campaign has been planning against Mr. Gingrich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); AIR FORCES (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%); ARMED FORCES (64%) Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Fox News Channel; Republican Party; Iowa; Elections

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (94%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Fox News Channel; Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (90%); RICK PERRY (90%); RON PAUL (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%) Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



680 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Town and School District Battle Over a Tax Break

BYLINE: By KRISTEN McQUEARY. 
Kristen McQueary covers state government for The Chicago News Cooperative and the public radio station WBEZ.; kmcqueary@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
As chief financial officer for one of Illinois's largest school districts, Cheryl Crates watches the money.
Early this year, she was counting on $14 million more rolling in for Community Unit District 300, after the expiration of a tax break at Sears Holdings' 800-acre headquarters in Hoffman Estates; it is the Sears corporate campus, which includes an on-site auto center, walking trails and even a hair salon for employees. When Ms. Crates met with Hoffman Estates officials in March, she learned the money might not be coming after all because the tax break might not expire.
''I cried,'' Ms. Crates said. ''The school district has cut for the last two years. We've had no wage increases, and we were planning on that revenue to bring down our class sizes. We have one algebra class with 47 students. It was devastating.''
Ms. Crates and her school district had suddenly found themselves at the epicenter of Illinois's latest political and financial crisis, described by one lawmaker as round-robin blackmail among Midwestern states. Unless Illinois agreed to extend the tax break, Sears threatened to leave. The state of Ohio, for one, dangled $400 million in tax incentives as a lure. 
But when lawmakers agree to corporate demands for property tax relief, they induce strain on the financial stability of schools, local governments, libraries and parks that rely on those taxes as their most stable form of revenue. The State of Illinois, with $3 billion in unpaid bills, has already disrupted local governments' revenue streams, often delivering payments to schools at least four months behind schedule.
So when Ms. Crates and her colleagues learned in March that Sears might win an extension of its tax break, they followed the lead of many corporations with well-connected lobbyists. They began a fierce campaign.
At first, the district wasn't even involved in discussions about the bill. The village of Hoffman Estates oversees the distribution of the Sears property tax revenue. Village officials did not mention that they had helped write and introduce legislation to extend the tax break until months after they did so, according to Ms. Crates. ''I was dumbfounded that a public agency like ourselves, right next door, didn't bother to tell us and tried in the middle of the night to pass legislation without telling us,'' Ms. Crates said.
The Hoffman Estates mayor, William McLeod, disputed Ms. Crates's account. He said that school officials knew early on that the village supported Sears's efforts to lengthen the life of the tax break.
''Rather than complaining, they should be happy to be getting $6 million'' under the compromise,Mr. McLeod said of the school district. ''They've been very boorish, very rude. Some people just roll that way. They've got to learn to wear their big-boy and big-girl pants.''
To fight the bill, the school district enlisted parents and students in a door-to-door campaign, bused them to Springfield for a rally outside the Capitol and circulated the names and phone numbers of legislators. A public spat ensued, with school officials openly disparaging what they saw as a back-room deal and village leaders accusing them of spreading lies.
Finally, last month, school officials landed a seat at a wide conference table in the House Speaker Michael Madigan's office to negotiate the bill that finally passed on Tuesday. Over nearly six hours, Sears, the village of Hoffman Estates and the school district hammered out a compromise. Statewide, more school districts are finding themselves in similar situations, carefully balancing the risks of a public controversy against the reality of lost revenue.
Hundreds of school districts filed objections to property-tax reductions sought by businesses claiming their property was overassessed. Data from the Illinois Property Tax Appeal Board, compiled for The Chicago News Cooperative, show 566 cases in which districts intervened to protest tax breaks in their neighborhoods last year.
Sears was given an incentive in 1989 that froze the property value at its corporate headquarters, allowing it to use that savings for redevelopment within the campus. For purposes of tax assessments, the property value has remained unchanged.
District 300, Ms. Crates's district, which operates 17 elementary schools, 6 middle schools and 3 high schools in the northwest suburbs, has waited more than 20 years to get full tax revenues from the Sears property.
Development came at a slower pace than the company expected. Sears still owes $125 million on infrastructure projects in the surrounding industrial park. So it lobbied hard to keep the tax break in place at least until it could pay off the bonds.
Meanwhile, the school district has been cutting its spending.
''Nobody around here has cut as much as we have,'' Ms. Crates said. ''Our neighboring high school district spends $5,000 more per student than we can,'' she added.
''We were always told, 'You wait 23 years, and you will have some tax money,' That was our rainbow.''
Under the bill, which is headed to Gov. Pat Quinn, who is expected to sign it. Sears will get another 15 years of frozen property values, but it will double the amount of money it gives annually to the school district, from $2.9 million to nearly $6 million. The district's budget is about $200 million annually.
''It's a system that's broken. Everyone is trying to pay the least amount of taxes they possibly can,'' said Fran LaBella, who oversees business services for southwest suburban Evergreen Park Elementary School District 124.
Several years ago, the district decided to fight a property tax break requested by the area's biggest payer, the Plaza shopping mall. The case is still pending before the Illinois Property Tax Appeal Board. If the mall owner is successful, the school district will lose about $300,000 annually. ''You have to fight for your tax base,'' Ms. LaBella said.
The House Democratic leader, Barbara Flynn Currie, questioned whether the state should keep bending to satisfy threats from businesses entertaining other offers.
''Do we respond or do we just say goodbye? Or do we even call their bluff?'' she asked. ''I mean, sometimes I think we should start calling the occasional bluff and say: 'Wait a minute. Is this for real?' Because the costs of moving are certainly significant.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Friday about a battle between the town of Hoffman Estates and Sears Holdings over the continuation of a tax break to Sears, stated incorrectly the effect of the expiration of a tax break in the town's special taxing district. Sears does not owe money, it is owed about $125 million under terms of the original tax break agreement with the state. The money will come from tax revenue generated within the district.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kelsey Moss, a senior at Dundee-Crown High School, has twice testified before the House Revenue and Finance Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW A. NELLES/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); MAYORS (68%)

COMPANY: SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (58%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011



681 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Marks End to a Long War for an Uncertain Iraq

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Reporting was contributed by Jack Healy, Michael S. Schmidt, Andrew E. Kramer, Duraid Adnan, Omar al-Jawoshy and an employee of The New York Times.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- At a crowded market in the city center here, the flotsam of the war is for sale. Ripped Fuel workout supplement. Ready-to-eat meals, macaroni and cheese ''Mexican style.'' Pistol holsters. Nothing seems off limits to the merchants out for a quick dinar, not even a bottle of prescription pills from a pharmacy in Waco, Tex., probably tossed out by a departing soldier.
The concrete blast walls that shielded the shopping stalls have lately come down. Since then, three explosions have struck the market, killing several people.
''This will be an easy target for car bombs,'' said Muhammad Ali, a merchant who lost two brothers during the cruelest times of the conflict. ''People will die here.'' 
After nearly nine years, about 4,500 American fatalities and $1 trillion, America's war in Iraq is about to end. Officials marked the finish on Thursday with a modest ceremony at the airport days before the last troops take the southern highway to Kuwait, going out as they came in, to conclude the United States' most ambitious and bloodiest military campaign since Vietnam.
For the United States, the war leaves an uncertain legacy as Americans weigh what may have been accomplished against the price paid, with so many dead and wounded. The Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein, was vanquished, but the failure to find illicit weapons undermined the original rationale, leaving a bitter taste as casualties mounted. The lengthy conflict and repeated deployments strained the country and its resources, raising questions about America's willingness to undertake future wars on such a grand scale.
Iraqis will be left with a country that is not exactly at war, and not exactly at peace. It has improved in many ways since the 2007 troop ''surge,'' but it is still a shattered country marred by violence and political dysfunction, a land defined on sectarian lines whose future, for better or worse, is now in the hands of its people.
''It is the end for the Americans only,'' Emad Risn, an Iraqi columnist, recently wrote in Assabah al-Jadeed, a government-financed newspaper. ''Nobody knows if the war will end for Iraqis, too.''
Iraq will now be on its own both to find its place in a region upended by revolutions and to manage its rivalry with Iran, which will look to expand its influence culturally and economically in the power vacuum left by the United States military. While American officials worry about the close political ties between Iraq's Shiite leadership and Iran, the picture at the grass-roots level is more nuanced. Iraqis complain about shoddy Iranian consumer goods -- they frequently mention low-quality yogurts and cheeses -- and the menacing role of Iranian-backed militias, which this year killed many American soldiers.
Failed Reconciliation
The Iranian rivalry frequently plays out in the Shiite holy city of Najaf, where Iraq's religious authorities are based. Iran, which like Iraq is majority Shiite, recently installed one of its leading clerics in Najaf, raising worries that Iran is trying to spread its brand of clerical rule to Iraq. Meanwhile, Moktada al-Sadr, an anti-American cleric with very close ties to Iran, has recently said that with the military withdrawal, American diplomats are now fair game for his militiamen.
Iraq faces a multitude of vexing problems the Americans tried and failed to resolve, from how to divide the country's oil wealth to sectarian reconciliation to the establishment of an impartial justice system. A longstanding dispute festers in the north over how to share power in Kirkuk between Arabs, Kurds and Turkmen, an ominous harbinger for power struggles that may ensue in a post-America Iraq. A recent deal between Exxon Mobil and the Kurdistan government in the north has been deemed illegal by Baghdad in the absence of procedures for sharing the country's oil resources.
''We are in a standstill and things are paralyzed,'' said Adel Abdul Mahdi, a prominent Shiite politician and former vice president of Iraq, describing the process of political reconciliation among Iraq's three main factions, Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds. ''We are going from bad to worse.''
A surprising number of Iraqis refuse to believe that the Americans are really leaving, the effect of a conspiratorial mind-set developed over years living under the violent and repressive dictatorship of Mr. Hussein, and a view of history informed by the Crusades, colonialism and other perceived injustices at the hands of the West.
Rani Basil, who drives a taxi in the capital, said, ''Iraq will be a great place if the U.S. withdraws,'' but he does not believe that it will. ''I do not think the United States will leave Iraq, because they are about to attack Iran,'' he said.
In Falluja, where years of block-to-block urban combat left behind a city that its Sunni residents refer to as Iraq's Hiroshima, residents celebrated the withdrawal with a day of public demonstrations, angry speeches, the burning of American flags and a gallery exhibition of photos of mangled children, destroyed homes and other signposts of what residents call the bitter legacy of the American invasion.
''It's a huge happiness that the Americans are getting out,'' said Mohammed Adnan, 35. ''Hopefully, we are all going to be fine, we Iraqis. We were doing fine before 2003.''
Not everyone was doing fine before 2003. After a failed Shiite uprising at the close of the 1991 Persian Gulf war, Mr. Hussein executed tens of thousands of people, mostly Kurds and Shiites. International sanctions destroyed the economy, creating mass poverty and crime. The dictatorship inflicted deep wounds to the collective psyche, which partially explains why the American invasion unleashed so many unforeseen consequences, from sectarian violence to a winner-take-all political culture.
''If you go to Basra and go house to house, wives will say that their husband disappeared,'' said Jana Hybaskova, the European Union's ambassador to Iraq. ''The level of destruction of society was a million times deeper than anyone expected.''
Experts estimate that the remains of 250,000 to one million Iraqis lie in mass graves around the country, victims of the Hussein government. Not a single victim has been identified by DNA analysis, partly because various government ministries and the two factions with the greatest claims of victimhood -- the Kurds and Shiites -- have been unable to agree on how to proceed. The lack of a painful but cathartic process of reckoning with its history -- as South Africa and other countries have done -- has stymied Iraqi society's ability to vanquish the ghosts of its past.
While more than 100,000 Iraqi civilians perished in the war and its aftermath, violence has decreased significantly since 2007, when there were almost 7,500 attacks a month.
But Iraq remains an extremely dangerous place. According to the American military, there were 500 to 750 attacks a month this year, including bombings, rocket attacks and assassinations. There are still roughly a dozen insurgent groups and militias active in Iraq: Sunni groups made up of former members of the ruling Baath Party and the homegrown insurgent group, Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia; and Shiite militias supported by Iran and Mr. Sadr, the anti-American cleric.
Progress in Small Steps
While the violence has declined, sectarian rifts still have not healed. American officials worry that a large attack on a Shiite shrine could trigger a new round of sectarian bloodletting. It remains unclear whether Iraq's security forces are loyal to their nation or their sect. In Abu Ghraib, the Sunni stronghold outside Baghdad, residents complain about harassment by the Shiite-dominated security forces and say they fear them more than insurgents. Local police and army outposts fly the flag of Imam Hussein, the revered Shiite martyr.
''It's been papered over,'' Joost R. Hiltermann, of the International Crisis Group, said of the sectarian divides. ''There has been no reconciliation whatsoever.''
The war opened Iraq's tremendous petroleum reserves to foreign investment for the first time since 1974, though American companies did poorly in the postwar auctions. So far, the Ministry of Oil has granted 12 licenses for fields in the south to companies from Britain, China, South Korea, the Netherlands, Russia and elsewhere, with just one going to an American company, Exxon Mobil. The outcome helped defuse criticism that the United States had invaded Iraq for its oil.
Yet, Iraq's oil output still has not rebounded to the level it was in the late 1970s, according to the International Energy Agency. The Iraqi government's stated goal of raising output to 12 million barrels a day by 2017, from the current 2.95 million barrels a day, is regarded as unattainable by some analysts.
Aesthetically, Baghdad is still a war zone of checkpoints, blast walls and coils of razor wire, where buildings sit partially destroyed from the first wave of bombings that President George W. Bush called ''shock and awe.'' At entrances to the garrisoned heart of the central government, the Green Zone, vehicles on the way in are searched for bombs, and on the way out for kidnapping victims. And most Iraqis still receive only a few hours of electricity a day, forcing many to sleep on their rooftops during sweltering summer nights.
Iraq has improved in some respects. Life in Baghdad has blossomed in recent years -- street life has returned, markets are bustling, a new amusement park is opening and even the circus came to town this year. The government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, while hamstrung by sectarian infighting, was chosen in elections last year that international monitors declared as free.
Melancholia and Hope
On the garbage-strewn banks of the Tigris River, a group of young men who lived abroad during the bad days now gather on Fridays to ride their Jet Skis, arriving in the early afternoon and staying until the sun goes down. They drink Tuborg beer and Chivas whiskey, and listen to American pop and rap music.
''When I'm on the Jet Ski on the Tigris, I forget all the explosions and the politics, everything,'' said Khaldi Nuami, who owns an import-export company whose primary product is armored cars.
A palpable sense of melancholy pervades Iraq. The war opened a generational divide that splits older Iraqis, who recall a brief golden age in the 1960s and 1970s, from younger ones, who are drawn more to the culture and ideas the Americans tried to import here.
''In the 1960s, life was good,'' said Qassim Jasim, who has baked bread at the Abu Naseer Bakery in Adhamiya, a Sunni enclave in the capital, for 38 years. During the war, he said, ''when I used to go out and see the dead bodies, I would cry for what it used to be like here.''
His neighborhood is no longer a bloody battleground controlled by Al Qaeda. But the Shiites have mostly left. The fabric of the community has been forever altered. Ghaith Raad, whose family owns a well-known sweets shop across the street from the bakery, returned from Syria -- where he fled during the fighting -- about four months ago.
''When I came back, I didn't find any of my friends,'' he said. ''The society has changed here, the people have changed.''
The war opened Iraq to the outside world. For the first time, Iraqis had easy access to satellite television and the Internet. This allowed the pop singer known as Dali, who left Iraq in the 1990s as a child and became famous in the Arab world, to become a star in her own country. She recently returned for the first time since the war began, to perform and film a music video.
Over coffee in the lobby of the recently refurbished Ishtar Sheraton hotel, dressed in a purple Adidas track suit, she considered her homecoming.
''I can feel how Iraq has changed now, and how it is sad,'' she said. ''All of Iraq is sad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American forces, arriving in Kuwait in one of the last convoys out of Iraq, took the same highway they came in on in 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA BRUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 A soldier at a Baghdad market, the scene of bloody attacks in the past. Merchants now sell items left behind by departing soldiers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); IRAQ WAR (79%); RETAILERS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



682 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: At Hospital, Two Signals On Eating And Health

BYLINE: By KATHARINE MIESZKOWSKI. 
kmieszkowski@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
The home page of the Web site for Children's Hospital and Research Center Oakland warns about childhood obesity, advising that ''a healthy weight starts with healthy eating'' and inviting families to adopt a ''seven-day healthy lunch plan.'' 
But during lunchtime on Tuesday, the hospital's own Friendly Cafe promoted the ''M&M Cookie'' for $1.99 as the day's ''featured treat.''
This is hardly the only children's hospital in California sending such mixed messages, but it is the worst offender, according to a new study from the University of California, Los Angeles, and the RAND Corporation.
The study examined what food was being sold in children's hospitals' cafeterias in California and how it was marketed. Researchers deemed only 7 percent of the entrees that were for sale healthy and criticized the vast majority of the hospitals for positioning high-calorie items, like ice cream and cookies, near cash registers to inspire impulse buying.
Children's Hospital, in Oakland, received the poorest score of 14 hospitals surveyed. Two other Bay Area hospitals -- Lucile Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford and the University of California, San Francisco, Benioff Children's Hospital -- tied for second most healthy.
Children's Hospital officials in Oakland defended dishing up onion rings, cheeseburgers and pizza alongside healthier options like Italian pasta salad and okra saute in the cafe, which serves about 1,200 people a day.
''You have parents and visitors here who it might be the worst day of their lives,'' said Erin Goldsmith, a spokeswoman for the hospital. ''How can we not offer them comfort food?''
But many hospital staff members eat at the cafe, too. Lucile Packard Children's Hospital takes a healthier approach, baking instead of frying chicken nuggets and French fries. ''We do feel a responsibility to set a good example,'' said Dr. Tom Robinson, director of the Center for Healthy Weight at Stanford.
Workers at the Friendly Cafe in Oakland said their offerings had improved over the years.
The cafe used to have a large display of Krispy Kreme doughnuts and a popcorn machine, whose tempting odors wafted through it, according to Maggie Lewis, a chef who has worked there for 11 years.
The cafe does have an extensive salad bar, but it is semihidden beyond the cash registers.
Every Tuesday, the North Oakland Farmers' Market sets up just outside the hospital, making fresh fruits and vegetables more accessible to patients' families and staff members.
Children enrolled in the Healthy Hearts Program, the weight-management clinic, get vouchers for produce at the market.
But inside the hospital, the sugary and fatty temptations of the vending machines lurk not far from the clinic.
''It kind of makes me laugh,'' said Dr. Jen Matthews, a pediatrician. ''We just spent an hour talking to a family about what not to eat and drink, and here it is right down the hall.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); OBESITY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); NUTRITION (78%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (78%); WEB SITES (78%); BAKED GOODS (76%); ICE CREAM (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (83%)

TICKER: KKD (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (52%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



683 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers' Temporary Deal Averts Government Shutdown

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and ROBERT PEAR; Lizette Alvarez contributed reporting from Miami.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Retreating from their harsh partisan sniping, and perhaps fearing public rebuke, Congressional leaders said Thursday that they had agreed on a large-scale spending measure to keep the government running for the next nine months.
But an accord on extending a payroll tax holiday set to expire at the end of the month remained elusive, with Democrats weighing a possible short-term extension, setting the stage for another fight with Republicans over how to pay for it.
On Thursday, lawmakers began to strike a conciliatory tone as they came together on an 11th-hour deal to keep the government from shutting down after Friday, with weekend work probably required to finish their business. 
''We're making some progress,'' said Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who leads the House Appropriations Committee. ''I'm feeling optimistic. Things are looking up, and I'm looking up,'' he said, opening his hands while looking skyward.
The spending bill appeared to modify some policy measures that had drawn sharp criticism from the White House, including eliminating one that reinstated tough restrictions on travel to Cuba.
''Congress should not and cannot go on vacation before they have made sure that working families aren't seeing their taxes go up by $1,000 and those who are out there looking for work don't see their unemployment insurance expire,'' President Obama said Thursday as he encouraged Congress to reach a compromise. Administration officials said they would insist that the payroll tax holiday be extended to prevent damage to the struggling economy.
As the Senate convened Thursday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said he was ''confident and optimistic'' that Congress would be able to pass a huge spending measure and continue the payroll tax break before adjourning for the holidays. It was a departure from the previous day, when he asserted that Democrats ''obviously want to have the government shut down.''
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, also sounded more hopeful, saying that he and Mr. McConnell intended to ''come up with something that will get us out of here at a reasonable time in the next few days.''
For weeks, Republicans and Democrats have been fighting over how to pay for an extension of a payroll tax holiday for 160 million American workers, one that will expire at the end of the year if Congress does not take action. That measure has become linked to a large spending bill that would keep the government financed through the rest of the fiscal year.
While both sides have spent much of the week trying to outmaneuver one another, Thursday seemed to presage the second stage of what has become a familiar pattern in the 112th Congress -- the ratcheting back of Stage 1, which is recriminations via news conference -- on the road to Stage 3: a final, grudging compromise.
At a minimum, the Senate, which has until Dec. 31 to act on the payroll tax before it reverts to a higher level, will seek a two-month stopgap extension of the payroll tax holiday, unemployment insurance and Medicare payment rates for doctors, at a cost of an estimated $40 billion. Senate leaders were still hoping to reach a deal on a longer-term plan.
While Democrats have dropped their idea of imposing a surtax on income over $1 million, they are now considering a plan that would find savings in other ways, including fees on the federal housing finance agencies, and could seek to end certain deductions and other tax benefits for millionaires.
Staff members on both sides began poring through the 800-page spending bill, preparing for a vote as early as Friday, though the entire process is expected to bleed into the weekend. Republican leaders in the House said there would be a meeting Friday morning with their members to discuss the plan.
The White House declined to allow Democrats to sign off on the bill until restrictions on travel to Cuba were removed. Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of New York and a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, said the proposed restrictions had been ''the one last sticking point'' in negotiations on the omnibus spending bill. Republicans wanted to reinstate restrictions on travel to Cuba and remittances from the United States. Since President Obama relaxed the restrictions in 2009, Cuba has seen a surge in visitors and remittances.
House Republicans, including Representative Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida, sought the tougher restrictions, saying that tourist travel and remittances yielded a windfall to the Cuban government.
But in Miami, many Cuban-Americans rejected that argument, saying that in fact, the restrictions would have dampened a budding opposition movement on the island. Cubans, particularly the young, have been emboldened by the visits and the shipment of goods, including laptops, cellphones, computer memory devices and other items that allow Cubans to run small private businesses. These businesses are now permitted by the Cuban government.
''It would be a tremendous, tremendous setback,'' said Pepe Hernandez, the president of the Cuban American National Foundation, which provides support to the anti-Castro movement in Cuba.
Speaker John A. Boehner also appeared to change his tone on Thursday, saying that a solution to the deadlock on spending was in sight. ''There's no need to shut down the government,'' Mr. Boehner said at a news conference.
While Mr. Reid initially refused to allow a vote on the spending bill before one on the payroll tax holiday extension, the two appeared to become delinked Thursday, as each party sought to avoid the government shutdown that would have occurred without the spending bill passage, while a payroll tax bill could be worked out over the next few days, or even weeks.
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California and a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, helped write the omnibus spending bill and said she would support it even if Congress had not finished work on the payroll tax measure. ''Anybody who walks away is very foolish,'' Mrs. Feinstein said.
A short-term spending measure could be needed, even for a day or two, to keep the government running while lawmakers debated the measure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader, and Speaker John A. Boehner on Thursday discussed compromise in news conferences. Congress had not reached an accord on how to pay for extending the payroll tax break. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (78%); CLOSINGS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); FAMILY (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%)

PERSON: HAROLD ROGERS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



684 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Zynga's Valuation, at $7 Billion, Is Milestone for Social Gaming

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
8:56 p.m. Updated
The virtual cow is the new cash cow of Wall Street.
On Thursday, Zynga, the creator of social online games involving farms, poker tables and kingdoms, priced its initial public offering at $10 a share, at the top end of its expected range. The offering, which raised $1 billion, values the company at $7 billion.
The highly anticipated public offering - the largest for an American Internet company since Google - is a critical milestone for the social gaming industry, solidifying the legitimacy of a business model once mocked by investors. At $7 billion, Zynga rivals traditional gaming companies like Electronic Arts, which makes a lot of its money at brick-and-mortar stores. 
''This is a revolution,'' said Lou Kerner, an analyst at Liquidnet, a brokerage firm, who has followed Zynga for years. ''Social is revolutionizing the gaming industry and it's really the early days of a brand new medium.''
Founded in 2007, Zynga has emerged as the shining example of Gaming 2.0.
Zynga attracts 222 million people each month on Facebook, making it the largest gaming company on the social network. A small fraction of users, less than 2 percent, pay money to populate their farms or build their cities in games like FarmVille and CityVille.
But the virtual goods are generating real profits. Each day, players spend $3 million in Zynga's economy. In the first nine months of the year, the company had earnings of $30.7 million, on revenue of $828.9 million.
While estimates once put Zynga's market value at nearly $20 billion, new investors are nonetheless paying a premium for the company. At $7 billion, it is set to start trading at seven times sales. By comparison, Electronic Arts, which makes the popular Madden N.F.L. video game series, has a market value of $6.9 billion, putting its price at roughly two times sales. Including unexercised options and warrants, the offering values Zynga at $8.9 billion, according to its prospectus.
Investors are betting on the potential for profits.
Zynga embodies a confluence of trends in the gaming industry. Its whimsical games cater to casual users, who may not own a console like a PlayStation 3. Its games, which are available on Facebook and mobile devices, also use social networks to allow players to share activity with their friends.
Led by the hard-charging Mark Pincus, a graduate of the Harvard Business School who spent his formative years on Wall Street, Zynga is often denounced by critics for its intense culture and for emulating rivals' games. But many also credit Mr. Pincus as a pioneer for making a big bet on social gaming and the so-called freemium model, in which playing is free but players have the option to upgrade features by spending money.
''Say what you will about Zynga. But Mark knew that free was the next big thing, and he went harder than anyone else,'' said Gabriel Leydon, the founder of Addmired, another gaming start-up. ''He saw the trend way ahead of time, and he spent the most money.''
It took time to persuade Silicon Valley of the model's potential. Mr. Pincus is a serial entrepreneur who founded Freeloader, an Internet broadcast service sold for $38 million in 1995, and Support.com, an online consumer support service that went public during the last dot-com boom. He initially got snubbed by many venture capital firms, according to people with knowledge of the matter who would speak only anonymously because the talks were private. His first major fund-raising effort for Zynga mainly attracted wealthy friends, like Peter Thiel, a founder of PayPal.
As Facebook grew rapidly, so did Zynga, and it soon attracted the attention of Silicon Valley's top venture firms. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers has an 11 percent stake and companies led by Yuri Milner, a Russian billionaire, hold a 5.8 percent stake. Google, which invested in Zynga in 2009, owns 4.1 percent.
Zynga's insiders are largely remaining steadfast. Mr. Pincus is holding on to his shares. And the main venture capital firms will reduce their holdings only if demand is strong and bankers decide to sell more stock. In that case, Institutional Venture Partners, Union Square Ventures, Foundry Venture Capital and Avalon Ventures will each sell a little more than two million shares.
The company is going public at a volatile time for the initial public offerings. The market has been shaken by continuing credit fears and skepticism that the new darlings of technology can sustain their momentum. Groupon, the daily deal site that went public in early November, tumbled as low as $14.85 a share, well below its offering price, before bouncing back recently. In another ominous sign, Zynga's Asian rival, Nexon, raised $1.2 billion in its offering on Wednesday, but it stumbled 2 percent on its first day of trading.
Zynga's long-term outlook is also mixed. Despite its popularity, it has struggled to find new catalysts to increase user adoption.
Then there is the Facebook issue. Analysts are concerned that Zynga, which derives nearly all its revenue from the social network, will not be successful at building out its independent platforms, particularly for mobile devices.
Zynga has been an aggressive acquirer but has failed to persuade some mobile gaming companies to join its ranks. For instance, both PopCap and Rovio, the maker of Angry Birds, turned it down this year despite billion-dollar offers, according to people with knowledge of the matter. As social gaming evolves, many analysts say they believe that mobile is a must-win area.
''Mark Pincus was one of the first who really saw the opportunity of virtual goods,'' said Mr. Kerner. ''But it's not just about Facebook anymore, they have to figure out mobile, too.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Zynga worker works on its Mafia Wars 2 game. The company's games attract 222 million people each month on Facebook. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); POKER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); GAMING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); RETAILERS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (63%)

COMPANY: ZYNGA INC (92%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: ZNGA (NASDAQ) (92%); EA (NASDAQ) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



685 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: A Portraitist Considered the 'Titian of Louisiana'

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

 BODY:
A narrowly focused exhibition has been traveling along the East Coast for the last year, containing all the known and attributed works by the New Orleans painter Julien Hudson. A total of eight, dating from the 1830s, have been found.
Hudson, the son of a British ironmonger and a mixed-race Creole landlady, specialized in portraits of prosperous white and black families. Scholars have been trying to research him for a century. During the show's travels, a little more information has surfaced.
The exhibition, ''In Search of Julien Hudson: Free Artist of Color in Pre-Civil War New Orleans,'' opened in January at the Historic New Orleans Collection and then spent the summer at the Gibbes Museum of Art in Charleston, S.C. Last week it arrived at the Worcester Art Museum in Massachusetts with a new discovery from a Rhode Island private collection: a signed Hudson portrait of a Creole brunette with upswept hair and a lace-trimmed black satin dress.
Fresh material emerging ''is exactly what you hope to happen,'' William Keyse Rudolph, the show's main curator, said in a recent phone interview. 
According to the paltry paper trail, Hudson's family nicknamed him Pickil. He trained in New Orleans with German and Italian emigre artists and traveled to Paris twice for more portraiture lessons. In an 1831 newspaper ad he promised that commissions would be ''thankfully received and punctually attended to.''
To flesh out the exhibition, Mr. Rudolph has included two dozen portraits by Hudson's mentors and students, black and white. A newly discovered 1850s porcelain statue depicts the slave Uncle Tiff cradling a white toddler, based on characters in Harriet Beecher Stowe's ''Uncle Tom's Cabin.'' The sculptor, Eugene Warburg, was a black abolitionist in New Orleans.
Hudson died in 1844, at 33. ''No obituary, death certificate or interment record has been found,'' the New Orleans historian Patricia Brady writes in the catalog. He may have been murdered or committed suicide, and the family disgrace was somehow covered up. A 1911 history of black New Orleans leaders misspells the painter's name but calls him its ''Titian in Louisiana,'' who endured vicious criticism that ''cast a cloud of despair over his whole life.''
FURNITURE MAKER'S REACH
The New York furniture maker Duncan Phyfe signed and labeled hardly any works. His signature forms, especially flared sofa arms and winged creatures on table bases, were widely copied, even during his lifetime. Countless anonymous antiques have been misattributed to him.
But his repertory was more varied than the legends suggest. ''Duncan Phyfe: Master Cabinetmaker in New York,'' which opens on Tuesday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, shows how he experimented with Biedermeier and Rococo curves, Egyptian lotus patterns and Gothic trefoils and pointed arches.
Met researchers spent six years sifting through family tales about heirlooms that Phyfe supposedly made. By the 1920s, so many false provenance stories had ended up in print that ''the well was poisoned,'' the curators Michael K. Brown and Peter M. Kenny write in the catalog from Yale University Press.
Phyfe's real last name was Fife. A Scottish immigrant, he changed the spelling soon after he moved to New York, ''to promote an image of sophistication,'' Mr. Brown and the historian Matthew A. Thurlow write in the catalog. In 1793 Phyfe married a Sephardic Jewish teenager, Rachel Louzada, and may have learned his trade partly from her relative Isaac Louzada, a New York cabinetmaker.
Phyfe's personality comes across as prickly in the Met catalog. ''In addition to his inability to guarantee delivery dates and cost estimates, Phyfe was seemingly unconcerned with providing prospective customers with precise and attractive renderings of the furniture available,'' Mr. Brown and Mr. Thurlow write. His workers at one point went on strike after a pay cut, and when two apprentices ran away, Phyfe offered small rewards for anyone who recaptured them.
His workshop on Fulton Street produced custom pieces for old-money clients like the Brinckerhoffs and Van Rensselaers. The staff may have outsourced the trickier tasks, like carving realistic paw feet and painting tableaus of gilded swans.
Phyfe also built a real estate empire, acquiring 18 properties in New York. The steady stream of rent checks protected him from bank crises that kept impoverishing his competitors. ''He's flattened out the troughs'' in 19th-century economic cycles, Mr. Kenny said during a recent exhibition preview.
About 80 objects definitely or probably made by Phyfe's workers are arranged chronologically, along with his snuffbox, spectacles, price book and tools. Paintings of his customers and family are on view, but Phyfe himself seems to have never sat for a portrait.
''We don't have a picture of him, which is killing me,'' Mr. Kenny said.
The Hirschl & Adler Galleries in Manhattan have installed 120 pieces in dining room and parlor simulations for a show through Feb. 17, ''The World of Duncan Phyfe: The Arts of New York, 1800-1847.'' Chandeliers with low-watt bulbs that mimic candlelight are hung over furniture by Phyfe and his circle (with prices from four figures to over $1 million), including sofas with his quintessential flared arms and tables with caryatid and eagle supports.
On a set of 16 mahogany dining chairs, ''Van Rens'' is scrawled in cursive on the frames. The Van Rensselaer family archive shows that Phyfe was paid $12 a chair in 1835.
Hirschl & Adler's owners, the Feld family, have lent pieces to the Met show, including an 1820s rosewood desk and bookcase made for the North Carolina arts patron Robert Donaldson. The delivery boat carrying Donaldson's Phyfe commissions sank in the Cape Fear River. The cargo was quickly fished out of the water, and only the red damask upholstery was ruined.
''Nothing came apart, nor was loosened,'' a Donaldson descendant wrote in a 1928 memoir.
The Bernard and S. Dean Levy gallery in Manhattan has two dozen pieces for sale by Phyfe and his contemporaries, mostly unsigned. ''We still really have an army of unknown cabinetmakers,'' S. Dean Levy said.
The Phyfe market, along with the rest of Americana, has been fairly sleepy for years, with prices rarely surpassing five figures. Last year, on behalf of the Met, S. Dean Levy paid $21,420 at Keno Auctions in Stamford, Conn., for an 1840s mahogany baby crib that Phyfe apparently made for his grandchildren.
''People always say to me, 'I should have collected when,' '' Mr. Levy said. Given the bargains now, he added, ''This is 'when.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A writing table and bookcase is among the pieces in a Duncan Phyfe exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which opens on Tuesday.
 A card table attributed to Duncan Phyfe. His signature forms, including winged creatures on table bases, were widely copied. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); HISTORY (76%); FAMILY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%); DEATHS (67%); FURNITURE MFG (63%); SUICIDE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (56%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



686 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: New Data Offers Some Positive Signs for the Recovery

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits fell to a 3 1/2-year low last week, and factory activity in parts of the Northeast gained speed in December, suggesting a further strengthening of the economic recovery.
While other data on Thursday showed that industrial output shrank for the first time in seven months in November, much of the decline came from auto production, which analysts said had been held back by temporary supply disruptions. 
''It looks like we have just hit a clear patch on the road to recovery, where things are going to speed up a little bit,'' said Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities in Charlotte, N.C.
Although growth is quickening from the third quarter's 2 percent annual rate, analysts cautioned that troubles in debt-stricken Europe pose a major risk to the economy in the United States. The fourth quarter growth rate is expected to top 3 percent.
Much of the rest of the global economy is already weakening, with the euro zone -- the 17 nations in the European Union that use the euro -- expected to slip into recession.
In the United States, initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped 19,000 to 366,000, the lowest since May 2008, the Labor Department said. That follows a report earlier this month that showed the jobless rate hit a 2 1/2-year low of 8.6 percent in November.
The economy's firming tone was also emphasized by data showing an acceleration in factory activity in New York state and the mid-Atlantic region this month.
The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its index of business conditions rose to its highest level since March as new orders surged. A separate report showed business activity in New York state at its highest since May, with a strong rebound in new orders and an improvement in hiring.
But the Fed's industrial production report took some of the shine off the two regional factory surveys. Output at the nation's mines, factories and refineries dropped 0.2 percent in November after rising 0.7 percent in October.
The decline was led by a 0.4 percent drop in factory output, which reflected a 3.4 percent slump in motor vehicle production.
Economists, however, blamed a scarcity of auto parts from flood-ravaged Thailand for the weakness. They said it also most likely weighed on production of high-technology goods, which were down sharply for a third consecutive month.
''We are not worried about the health of the manufacturing sector,'' said Michelle Girard, a senior economist at RBS in Stamford, Conn.
''Inventories are lean and firms will likely need to restock after a decent holiday season. Automakers also plan healthy production increases in the first quarter,'' she said.
FedEx on Thursday provided a further signal the economy was gaining momentum, saying demand for residential delivery services was rising with ''healthy growth'' in online shopping.
Honeywell International, the maker of products ranging from cockpit electronics to control systems for large buildings, also struck an upbeat note on the economy and predicted strong sales growth next year.
Another report from the Labor Department showed wholesale prices rose 0.3 percent last month, reversing October's 0.3 percent fall, as food prices climbed 1 percent. Excluding food and energy, producer prices were up a mild 0.1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MINING OUTPUT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); EURO (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); THAILAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



687 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Nursing Strikes Are Looming in the City as Hospitals Seek to Reduce Costs

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
The specter of nursing strikes is looming on both coasts, as newly empowered nurses' unions confront hospitals pressed to cut costs amid changes in health care financing.
In New York, over 6,000 registered nurses are poised to walk out of three of the city's most prestigious hospitals before the year's end, mainly over changes to their health benefits and what they say are strains in staffing. The hospitals -- Mount Sinai, Montefiore Medical Center and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center -- already are contracting for strike replacements at more than double normal wages.
In California, where 23,000 nurses represented by the California Nurses Association staged a one-day strike in September over similar issues, a new 24-hour walkout is set for Dec. 22 at eight hospitals in the San Francisco Bay Area and one in Long Beach. Potential strikes in New Jersey and Minnesota are being advertised on the Web site of HealthSource Global Staffing, one of the largest strike replacement agencies, which promises ''cool locations and hot paychecks'' for nurses willing to fill in during a walkout. 
In New York, the union, the New York State Nurses' Association, has not yet given the hospitals a 10-day strike warning, which the law requires, and last-minute settlements are still possible. But its battle with the hospitals reflects common themes across the country.
The nurses, who voted overwhelmingly to authorize a strike, say they are being disrespected by a corporate hospital culture that demands sacrifices from patients and those who provide their care, but pays executives millions of dollars. Management officials defend executive pay as the price of competition for top leadership, and accuse the nurses of refusing what many other American workers have accepted: paying a share of their health insurance premiums, along with higher co-payments, deductibles and prescription costs.
Though finances differ, all hospitals face cuts in Medicaid and Medicare and uncertainty over budgets under new payment models. Among other changes are new measures of quality: hospitals will lose money if too many patients are readmitted within 30 days, or if they score poorly on patient satisfaction surveys -- two areas in which nurses play a crucial role.
For patients, the stakes are high, according to a recent study of 50 nurses' strikes in New York State between 1984 and 2004. The study, for the National Bureau of Economic Research, found that patient mortality was 19.4 percent higher during a strike, or that there was about one extra death for every 280 patients admitted, and that they were 6.5 percent more likely to be readmitted within 30 days.
The study resonated at a Sutter Health hospital in Oakland, Calif., where the death in September of a cancer patient was attributed to a medical error by one of 500 temporary nurses hired to replace those locked out for several days after their 24-hour strike. The death is still under investigation, but The San Francisco Chronicle reported that a dietary supplement was mistakenly fed into the patient's intravenous line.
''Nobody wants a strike,'' said Bruce McIver, president of the League of Voluntary Hospitals, who is negotiating for Mount Sinai and Montefiore, where nurses' contracts expired last December.
Negotiations grew harder, both sides say, after management trustees of the union's benefit fund won an arbitration decision in June requiring nurses to pay $25 to $400 a month toward premiums previously covered entirely by their employers.
Reduced coverage took effect Sept. 1 at two hospitals, and some nurses found they had to pay hundreds of dollars more for medication. For union leaders, elected this year on pledges of more forceful representation, modifying the changes in health benefits became a key goal, despite the arbitrator's decision.
''They're making demands at the bargaining table that are out of line with what others have been able to get,'' Mr. McIver said. ''Up and down the line, all health care workers have been asked to make sacrifices.''
Judy Sheridan-Gonzalez, a nurse and union leader at Montefiore, said the strike vote was driven by more than new fees. ''As professionals we don't feel respected,'' she said. ''This corporate model is being shoved down our throat.''
She said the hospital had hired costly consultants who handed nurses scripts to recite to patients in a bid to improve customer satisfaction scores, even as the nurses were left short-handed with more acutely ill patients, straining the staffing guidelines -- one nurse to seven patients -- they had negotiated a decade ago.
Jesse Derris, a spokesman for Montefiore, said that the hospital routinely hired experts to help employees at every level improve patient care, that its staffing exceeded national guidelines, and that it would continue to ''do the best we can for a hospital that relies on Medicaid and Medicare for 80 percent of its funding.''
At Mount Sinai, nurses' base salaries go from $75,000 to $95,000 after 20 years, and average close to $100,000 with overtime and advanced degrees. Jacklynn Price, president of the bargaining unit, said a management negotiator was dismissive of their resistance to reduced health coverage, saying: ''We have the money. We just don't have the will to give it to you.''
Ms. Price, a veteran nurse, said, ''They go home with bags of money, what I call these nonprofit oligarchs.'' She cited a $1.2 million bonus paid last year to the hospital's chief executive, Kenneth L. Davis, which brought his compensation to $2.6 million. Mount Sinai responded that under the plan, nurses would pay about 20 percent of what its other professionals pay toward insurance.
''This is not an issue of respect,'' the hospital wrote, ''but rather an issue of fairness. We have great respect for work done by the nurses, but we also have great respect for the work done by all members of the health care team.''
But a surprise settlement last week by NewYork-Presbyterian, where a strike had been authorized, seemed to undercut that position and the arbitrator's decision. The hospital will reimburse its 3,000 nurses for premiums, in exchange for other concessions, union leaders said. The trustees of the nurses' benefit fund, divided between union and hospital representatives, are expected to vote on that arrangement Friday. If they reject it, the nurses could leave the fund, threatening its actuarial health. The settlement also includes 9 percent in raises over three years, and better staffing ratios.
NewYork-Presbyterian would not confirm those details. But the settlement's terms clearly rankled the three other hospitals.
''We're disappointed,'' said Rick Pogue, an executive at Continuum Health Partners negotiating for St. Luke's-Roosevelt. ''But that is not going to change our position.''
''Presbyterian is the wealthy sister up the street, so to speak, that can afford to drive around in a Bentley,'' he added. ''And we drive a nice Ford, but we still get there.''
Online Correction: December 15, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled, in one instance, the surname of the president of the League of Voluntary Hospitals. He is Bruce McIver, not McGiver.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judy Sheridan-Gonzalez, left, a nurse and union leader, with other nurses at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (96%); HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); STRIKES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); MEDICARE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (69%); CANCER (64%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (60%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%)

COMPANY: SUTTER HEALTH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE NURSES' ASSOCIATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



688 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2240 words

PERSON: Christopher Hitchens 

HEADLINE: Polemicist Who Slashed All, Freely, With Wit

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Christopher Hitchens, a slashing polemicist in the tradition of Thomas Paine and George Orwell who trained his sights on targets as various as Henry Kissinger, the British monarchy and Mother Teresa, wrote a best-seller attacking religious belief, and dismayed his former comrades on the left by enthusiastically supporting the American-led war in Iraq, died on Thursday in Houston. He was 62.
The cause was pneumonia, a complication of esophageal cancer, Vanity Fair magazine said in announcing the death, at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. Mr. Hitchens, who lived in Washington, learned he had cancer while on a publicity tour in 2010 for his memoir, ''Hitch-22,'' and began writing and, on television, speaking about his illness frequently.
''In whatever kind of a 'race' life may be, I have very abruptly become a finalist,'' Mr. Hitchens wrote in Vanity Fair, for which he was a contributing editor. 
He took pains to emphasize that he had not revised his position on atheism, articulated in his best-selling 2007 book, ''God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything,'' although he did express amused appreciation at the hope, among some concerned Christians, that he might undergo a late-life conversion.
He also professed to have no regrets for a lifetime of heavy smoking and drinking. ''Writing is what's important to me, and anything that helps me do that -- or enhances and prolongs and deepens and sometimes intensifies argument and conversation -- is worth it to me,'' he told Charlie Rose in a television interview in 2010, adding that it was ''impossible for me to imagine having my life without going to those parties, without having those late nights, without that second bottle.''
Armed with a quick wit and a keen appetite for combat, Mr. Hitchens was in constant demand as a speaker on television, radio and the debating platform, where he held forth in a sonorous, plummily accented voice that seemed at odds with his disheveled appearance. He was a master of the extended peroration, peppered with literary allusions, and of the bright, off-the-cuff remark.
In 2007, when the interviewer Sean Hannity tried to make the case for an all-seeing God, Mr. Hitchens dismissed the idea with contempt. ''It would be like living in North Korea,'' he said.
Mr. Hitchens, a British Trotskyite who had lost faith in the Socialist movement, spent much of his life wandering the globe and reporting on the world's trouble spots for The Nation magazine, the British newsmagazine The New Statesman and other publications.
His work took him to Northern Ireland, Greece, Cyprus, Portugal, Spain and Argentina in the 1970s, generally to shine a light on the evil practices of entrenched dictators or the imperial machinations of the great powers.
After moving to the United States in 1981, he added American politics to his beat, writing a biweekly Minority Report for The Nation. He wrote a monthly review-essay for The Atlantic and, as a carte-blanche columnist at Vanity Fair, filed essays on topics as various as getting a Brazilian bikini wax and the experience of being waterboarded, a volunteer assignment that he called ''very much more frightening though less painful than the bikini wax.'' He was also a columnist for the online magazine Slate.
His support for the Iraq war sprang from a growing conviction that radical elements in the Islamic world posed a mortal danger to Western principles of political liberty and freedom of conscience. The first stirrings of that view came in 1989 with the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's fatwah against the novelist Salman Rushdie for his supposedly blasphemous words in ''The Satanic Verses.'' To Mr. Hitchens, the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, confirmed the threat.
In a political shift that shocked many of his friends and readers, he cut his ties to The Nation and became an outspoken advocate of the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and a ferocious critic of what he called ''Islamofascism.'' Although he denied coining the word, he popularized it.
He remained unapologetic about the war. In 2006 he told the British newspaper The Guardian: ''There are a lot of people who will not be happy, it seems to me, until I am compelled to write a letter to these comrades in Iraq and say: 'Look, guys, it's been real, but I'm going to have to drop you now. The political cost to me is just too high.' Do I see myself doing this? No, I do not!''
Christopher Eric Hitchens was born on April 13, 1949, in Portsmouth, England. His father was a career officer in the Royal Navy and later earned a modest living as a bookkeeper.
Though it strained the family budget, Christopher was sent to private schools in Tavistock and Cambridge, at the insistence of his mother. ''If there is going to be an upper class in this country, then Christopher is going to be in it,'' he overheard his mother saying to his father, clinching a spirited argument.
He was politically attuned even as a 7-year-old. ''I was precocious enough to watch the news and read the papers, and I can remember October 1956, the simultaneous crisis in Hungary and Suez, very well,'' he told the magazine The Progressive in 1997. ''And getting a sense that the world was dangerous, a sense that the game was up, that the Empire was over.''
Even before arriving at Balliol College, Oxford, Mr. Hitchens had been drawn into left-wing politics, primarily out of opposition to the Vietnam War. After heckling a Maoist speaker at a political meeting, he was invited to join the International Socialists, a Trotskyite party. Thus began a dual career as political agitator and upper-crust sybarite. He arranged a packed schedule of antiwar demonstrations by day and Champagne-flooded parties with Oxford's elite at night. Spare time was devoted to the study of philosophy, politics and economics.
After graduating from Oxford in 1970, he spent a year traveling across the United States. He then tried his luck as a journalist in London, where he contributed reviews, columns and editorials to The New Statesman, The Daily Express and The Evening Standard.
''I would do my day jobs at various mainstream papers and magazines and TV stations, where my title was 'Christopher Hitchens,' '' he wrote in ''Hitch-22,'' ''and then sneak down to the East End, where I was variously features editor of Socialist Worker and book review editor of the theoretical monthly International Socialism.''
He became a staff writer and editor for The New Statesman in the late 1970s and fell in with a literary clique that included Martin Amis, Julian Barnes, James Fenton, Clive James and Ian McEwan. The group liked to play a game in which members came up with the sentence least likely to be uttered by one of their number. Mr. Hitchens's was ''I don't care how rich you are, I'm not coming to your party.''
After collaborating on a 1976 biography of James Callaghan, the Labour leader, he published his first book, ''Cyprus,'' in 1984 to commemorate Turkey's invasion of Cyprus a decade earlier. A longer version was published in 1989 as ''Hostage to History: Cyprus From the Ottomans to Kissinger.''
His interest in the region led to another book, ''Imperial Spoils: The Curious Case of the Elgin Marbles'' (1987), in which he argued that Britain should return the Elgin marbles to Greece.
In 1981 he married a Greek Cypriot, Eleni Meleagrou. The marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by their two children, Alexander and Sophia; his wife, Carol Blue, and their daughter, Antonia; and his brother, Peter.
Mr. Hitchens's reporting on Greece came through unusual circumstances. He was summoned to Athens in 1973 because his mother, after leaving his father, had committed suicide there with her new partner. After his father's death in 1987, he learned that his mother was Jewish, a fact she had concealed from her husband and her children.
After moving to the United States, where he eventually became a citizen, Mr. Hitchens became a fixture on television, in print and at the lectern. Many of his essays for The Nation and other magazines were collected in ''Prepared for the Worst'' (1988).
He also threw himself into the defense of his friend Mr. Rushdie. ''It was, if I can phrase it like this, a matter of everything I hated versus everything I loved,'' he wrote in his memoir. ''In the hate column: dictatorship, religion, stupidity, demagogy, censorship, bullying and intimidation. In the love column: literature, irony, humor, the individual and the defense of free expression.''
To help rally public support, Mr. Hitchens arranged for Mr. Rushdie to be received at the White House by President Bill Clinton, one of Mr. Hitchens's least favorite politicians and the subject of his book ''No One Left to Lie To: The Triangulations of William Jefferson Clinton'' (1999).
He regarded the response of left-wing intellectuals to Mr. Rushdie's predicament as feeble, and he soon began to question many of his cherished political assumptions. He had already broken with the International Socialists when, in 1982, he astonished some of his brethren by supporting Britain in the Falkland Islands war.
The drift was reflected in books devoted to heroes like George Orwell (''Why Orwell Matters,'' 2002), Thomas Paine (''Thomas Paine's 'Rights of Man': A Biography,'' 2006) and Thomas Jefferson (''Thomas Jefferson: Author of America,'' 2005).
His polemical urges found other outlets. In 2001 he excoriated Mr. Kissinger, the secretary of state in the Nixon administration, as a war criminal in the book ''The Trial of Henry Kissinger.'' He helped write a 2002 documentary film by the same title based on the book.
Mr. Hitchens became a campaigner against religious belief, most notably in his screed against Mother Teresa, ''The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice'' (1995), and ''God Is Not Great.'' He regarded Mother Teresa as a proselytizer for a retrograde version of Roman Catholicism rather than as a saintly charity worker.
''I don't quite see Christopher as a 'man of action,' '' the writer Ian Buruma told The New Yorker in 2006, ''but he's always looking for the defining moment -- as it were, our Spanish Civil War, where you put yourself on the right side, and stand up to the enemy.''
One stand distressed many of his friends. In 1999, Sidney Blumenthal, an aide to Mr. Clinton and a friend of Mr. Hitchens's, testified before a grand jury that he was not the source of damaging comments made to reporters about Monica Lewinsky, whose supposed affair with the president was under investigation by the House of Representatives.
Contacted by House investigators, Mr. Hitchens supplied information in an affidavit that, in effect, accused Mr. Blumenthal of perjury and put him in danger of being indicted.
At a lunch in 1998, Mr. Hitchens wrote, Mr. Blumenthal had characterized Ms. Lewinsky as ''a stalker'' and said the president was the victim of a predatory and unstable woman. Overnight, Mr. Hitchens -- now called ''Hitch the Snitch'' by Blumenthal partisans -- became persona non grata in living rooms all over Washington. In a review of ''Hitch-22'' in The New York Review of Books, Mr. Buruma criticized Mr. Hitchens for making politics personal.
To Mr. Hitchens, he wrote, ''politics is essentially a matter of character.''
''Politicians do bad things,'' Mr. Buruma continued, ''because they are bad men. The idea that good men can do terrible things (even for good reasons), and bad men good things, does not enter into this particular moral universe.'' Mr. Hitchens's latest collection of writings, ''Arguably: Essays,'' published this year, has been a best-seller and ranked among the top 10 books of 2011 by The New York Times Book Review.
Mr. Hitchens discussed the possibility of a deathbed conversion, insisting that the odds were slim that he would admit the existence of God.
''The entity making such a remark might be a raving, terrified person whose cancer has spread to the brain,'' he told The Atlantic in August 2010. ''I can't guarantee that such an entity wouldn't make such a ridiculous remark, but no one recognizable as myself would ever make such a remark.''
Readers of ''Hitch-22'' already knew his feelings about the end. ''I personally want to 'do' death in the active and not the passive,'' he wrote, ''and to be there to look it in the eye and be doing something when it comes for me.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an obituary in some copies on Friday about the writer Christopher Hitchens referred incorrectly to the circumstances of his death. While he did die at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, he had not entered hospice care there, and he had not stopped treatment. The obituary also misstated the source of a remark by Mr. Hitchens, an avowed atheist, about the possibility of a deathbed conversion. It came from a 2010 interview with The Atlantic, not with The New York Times. And the obituary also misstated the frequency of ''Minority Report,'' the column Mr. Hitchens wrote for The Nation. It appeared biweekly, not bimonthly.
An obituary last Friday about the writer Christopher Hitchens referred incorrectly to the Falkland Islands war of 1982, in which he supported Britain. Britain responded to Argentine military action in the Falklands; Britain did not invade the Falklands.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher Hitchens at his Washington, D.C., home in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK MAHANEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); RELIGION (91%); CANCER (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (71%); SMOKING (71%); PNEUMONIA (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%)

COMPANY: M D ANDERSON CANCER CENTER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FELLOWSHIP OF CONSERVATIVE SOUTHERN BAPTISTS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (57%)

CHARLIE ROSE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); IRAQ (90%); CYPRUS (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARGENTINA (64%); SPAIN (58%); GREECE (50%); PORTUGAL (50%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011



689 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 5451 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'Close Up Space' (in previews; opens on Monday) Comedies about the difficulties of communication are becoming Leigh Silverman's specialty this season. Following her work on ''Chinglish,'' she tackles that subject again in directing the Manhattan Theater Club production of Molly Smith Metzler's play, whose cast includes David Hyde Pierce, Rosie Perez and Michael Chernus. City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (David Rooney) 
'The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Jan. 12) Controversy swirled around this revival of the 1935 American folk opera when Stephen Sondheim very publicly took issue with comments made by the director, Diane Paulus, and the adapter, Suzan-Lori Parks, concerning their views on the original book by DuBose Heyward. Whether or not that scolding was the decisive factor, the creative team reportedly has now opted for a less radical overhaul than originally planned. Either way, with Audra McDonald, Norm Lewis and David Alan Grier in the lead roles, this is one of the most eagerly anticipated musical events of the Broadway season. Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Rooney)
'Outside People' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Jan. 10) Naked Angels and the Vineyard join forces on Zayd Dohrn's dark comedy, which explores culture-clash terrain similar to that in ''Chinglish,'' playing uptown. Directed by Evan Cabnet, the new play is set in contemporary Beijing, where a young American man falls for a Chinese woman, forcing him to consider his complex role in a foreign environment and the social, political and economic forces that shape their relationship. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Rooney)
'The Road to Mecca' (previews start on Friday; opens on Jan. 17) Before Signature Theater Company's Athol Fugard season, beginning in February, Roundabout kicks off the South African dramatist's 80th birthday celebration with this Broadway premiere. The 1984 play about artistic freedom centers on a reclusive elderly widow whose ability to continue living independently and creating her iconoclastic sculptures is called into question by a pastor but defended by an admiring young schoolteacher. Gordon Edelstein's production stars Rosemary Harris, Carla Gugino and, in a role once played by Mr. Fugard, Jim Dale. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Rooney)
Broadway
'Bonnie & Clyde' America's favorite kissin' outlaws (played by Laura Osnes and Jeremy Jordan) are on the run again in a modest, mildly tuneful musical by Don Black, Ivan Menchell and Frank Wildhorn. Directed by Jeff Calhoun, this show manages to find the blandness in the triple threat lure of youth, sex and violence (2:20). Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of ''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q'' (Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Chinglish' David Henry Hwang's sporadically funny comedy about a bewildered American businessman seeking his fortune in capitalist China is laid out with the frame-by-frame exactness of a comic strip. That means this bilingual production is easy to follow but hard to embrace with enthusiasm. Leigh Silverman directs (2:00). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'An Evening With Patti LuPone and Mandy Patinkin' The stars of the original Broadway production of ''Evita'' are reunited on the concert stage for an eclectic evening of (mostly) love songs from the musical theater. Both are in fine vocal form, and the show is a must-have ticket for ardent fans, but the repertory is sometimes a fine fit (Stephen Sondheim) and sometimes ill-chosen (Rodgers and Hammerstein) (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
- 'Follies' The Kennedy Center's revival of James Goldman and Stephen Sondheim's musical about a reunion of Ziegfeld-style performers looks back as much in anger as in fondness, and that's what makes it so vibrant. Eric Schaeffer directs an electric cast led by Bernadette Peters, Jan Maxwell, Danny Burstein and Ron Raines (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Godspell' Oh, dear Lord: the beloved 1971 musical that turned biblical parables into teachable moments has been stuffed fruitcake-full of jokey contemporary allusions. Performed by a peppy young cast, the show is like being stuck in a rec room with kids who have been too reckless with the Red Bull (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Not a natural song-and-dance man, Daniel Radcliffe tries really, really hard as the amoral hero of this 1961 Frank Loesser musical about corporate ladder-climbing. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Hugh Jackman: Back on Broadway' This impossibly talented, impossibly energetic actor practices safe sex like nobody else. His polished song-and-dance show is like a great, guilt-free platonic one-night stand. All he asks is that you love him loving you loving him. It's hard to deny him that (2:00). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Lysistrata Jones' Douglas Carter Beane and Lewis Flinn's endearingly escapist show -- about sex, apathy and basketball on a college campus -- brings a touch of summer sun and silliness to what has been a wintry season for musicals. Dan Knechtges directs (and choreographs) a spirited cast that includes the delicious Patti Murin in the title role (2:15). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Mountaintop' Katori Hall's surprisingly thin drama, which won the 2010 Olivier Award, depicts the last night in the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (Samuel L. Jackson) and his encounter with a feisty motel maid (Angela Bassett). Perhaps best regarded as a comfort play, a nursery-room fable for grownups (1:40). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'On a Clear Day You Can See Forever' This grim, extensively reworked revival of the Burton Lane and Alan Jay Lerner musical from 1965 appears to be suffering from a severe case of clinical depression. Harry Connick Jr. plays a psychiatrist in mourning. Michael Mayer directs Peter Parnell's revamped book (2:30). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Other Desert Cities' Jon Robin Baitz's family drama is so good that you may not even realize how good it is while you're watching it. Joe Mantello directs a sublime cast that expertly elicits the pain and the comfort of blood ties: Stockard Channing, Rachel Griffiths, Stacy Keach, Judith Light and Matthew Risch (2:15). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Private Lives' Richard Eyre's larky (if unnecessary) revival of Noel Coward's comedy of connubial fisticuffs makes a convincing case for both the pliable talents of Kim Cattrall and the bubbly pleasures forever on tap in this play. Paul Gross is excellent as Ms. Cattrall's partner in domestic demolition (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Relatively Speaking' This slight but mostly enjoyable trio of short plays by Ethan Coen, Elaine May and Woody Allen won't do much to burnish their established reputations, but the show is chock full of nifty shtick. Marlo Thomas delights as a pampered princess with a dead husband in Ms. May's contribution (2:15). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Seminar' Alan Rickman is a virtuoso of disdain in Theresa Rebeck's shiny, facile comedy about an ego-shredding writing teacher. Full of efficiently mapped reversals, the play feels as if it were written according to the literary equivalent of a GPS device. Sam Gold directs a bright cast that includes Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater (1:40). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Brantley)
'Stick Fly' Lydia R. Diamond's overstuffed but lively comedy-drama feels like a Tyler Perry melodrama (sans Madea) as revised by an academic specializing in issues of class in African-American culture. Condola Rashad gives the standout performance in the director Kenny Leon's uneven production, playing a young woman who embodies the problems of racial and class divisions that the other characters theorize about (2:15). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, lincolncenter.org. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' The most famous bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are onstage in this adaptation of three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting to show their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel Graeber)
- 'Blood and Gifts' J. T. Rogers's drama gives a remarkably lucid and compelling account of how the American and British view of Afghanistan as a vital front in the cold war shaped the calamitous recent history of the country. Directed with a steady hand by Bartlett Sher and featuring a first-rate cast, including Jefferson Mays as a British agent right out of a Graham Greene novel (2:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
- 'The Cherry Orchard' Andrei Belgrader's heartbreakingly funny production of Chekhov's play, which features an excellent Dianne Wiest and John Turturro, finds the tragicomic rhythms in misfired words and gestures. A delicate slapstick ballet that illuminates Chekhov's singular vision of why people fail to connect (2:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Brantley)
- 'Cymbeline' The Fiasco Theater's charming production brings lucidity, credibility and gentle magic to Shakespeare's bulky, convoluted tale of star-crossed lovers and schemers in old Britannia, with a multifarious cast of six on a naked stage. Directed by Noah Brody and Ben Steinfeld (2:40). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Brantley)
'Dancing at Lughnasa' Charlotte Moore's production falls a little short on atmosphere but works where it counts most, in the spirited performances of the five women playing the poor, unmarriageable Mundy sisters in the fictional Donegal town of Ballybeg in late summer 1936. Two decades after it was first seen, this transporting Tony-winning memory play by the Irish dramatist Brian Friel has lost none of its humanity or delicacy (2:05). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Happy Hour' Two ounces misanthropy, one of anomie and a dash of bitters is the recipe in Ethan Coen's latest cocktail of short plays. Directed by Neil Pepe, these three slivers of bleak comedy add up to one wearying evening of theater (2:00). Peter Norton Space at Signature Theater Company, 552 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'Maple and Vine' Jordan Harrison's dark fantasy follows the fortunes of a young New York couple (Marin Ireland and Peter Kim) who flee their unfulfilling lives to settle in a secluded community that meticulously re-creates the experience of suburban living in 1955 America. Not always plausible, but clever and sleekly directed by Anne Kauffman (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'Neighbourhood Watch' Alan Ayckbourn's latest comedy finds a mild-mannered middle-aged brother and sister (the excellent Matthew Cottle and Alexandra Mathie) leading a committee to rein in petty crime in their community, with results that practically turn their patch of British suburbia into a police state. The charms of the idiomatic cast help make up for the sometimes wayward plotting (2:35). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Isherwood)
'Once' This gently appealing, imaginatively staged new musical about funky young composers in love doesn't always sustain the understated charm of the 2006 cult movie that inspired it. But it often finds depth in its songs (by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova). John Tiffany directs a cast led by Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Brantley)
'Rent' Maybe they should call it ''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif, never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Richard II' Sean McNall gives a sharply etched performance as Shakespeare's silver-tongued but lead-footed ruler. But the production falls into its protagonist's woozy rhythms, ruminating when it should be marching forward (2:50). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Eric Grode)
'Silence! The Musical' A silly, coarse musical spin on ''The Silence of the Lambs'' as pitched to obsessive fans (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Sistas: The Musical' The script is obvious, covering virtually every issue that might touch the lives of black women, but Dorothy Marcic's good-natured, low-budget musical is all about the songs. From ''Ain't Nobody's Business if I Do'' to ''Single Ladies,'' you could do a lot worse. Saturday and Sunday only (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)
- 'Sons of the Prophet' Stephen Karam's wonderful new play is a comedy about how we endure the unendurable. Santino Fontana leads a flawless cast in a kaleidoscopic portrait of the woes that befall a family of Lebanese extraction and the people in their orbit. As smart and funny as it is deeply compassionate (1:45). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Suicide, Incorporated' Andrew Hinderaker's black comedy evolves a bit uneasily into sincere drama in telling the story of the workers at a company that ghostwrites suicide notes (1:25). Black Box Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive talents get to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Voca People' This show features space aliens, but it's really all about a cappella music. The visitors have crash-landed on Earth in a ship powered by music, and lots of singing must be done to refuel their ship. The eight singers sound pretty good, despite some overamplification. But most of the show consists of fragments of songs, which becomes annoying; only when the cast is allowed to cut loose and deliver an entire song -- the Doors' ''People Are Strange'' is a highlight -- do things reach their full potential (1:30). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
Off Off Broadway
- 'She Kills Monsters' The lowbrow-and-loving-it Vampire Cowboys team goes off-site for this ambitious and surprisingly touching look at a deceased teenage girl's alternate life as a Dungeons & Dragons warrior. The coming-of-age epiphanies are just as hard-fought as the battles with bugbears and succubi (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Grode)
Extravaganzas
'Bai Xi' Young jaws drop as only slightly less young bodies flip, climb, contort and soar in this collection of traditional and modern Chinese acrobatics. Parents: You may want to move the mattress to the floor when you get home (1:30). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (646) 562-2200, newvictory.org. (Grode)
'Big Apple Circus: Dream Big' This one-ring circus may not offer big cats, but it does have large rodents -- a capybara and an African crested porcupine, no less -- in its new show. Fortunately, the circus has lost none of its intimacy this season, whose highlights include terrific trapeze and acrobatics, bravura magic and the farewell antics of Barry Lubin, doing his final turn as the clown known as Grandma (2:15). Damrosch Park, 62nd Street between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, Lincoln Center, (888) 541-3750, bigapplecircus.org. (Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'The Addams Family' Kiddie Goth (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Anything Goes' Champagne decanted by Cole Porter (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Billy Elliot the Musical' Ballet dreams in coal country (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation (''In the Time of the Butterflies,'' in English) of Julia Alvarez's novel about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result. Saturday at 3 p.m. only (2:00). Repertorio Espanol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Freckleface Strawberry THE mUSICAL' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book, this children's musical transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. MMAC Theater, 248 West 60th Street, (212) 239-6200; frecklefacestrawberrythemusical.com.
'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis (1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Memphis' A musical focusing on an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street, missabigailsguide.com.
'Naked Boys Singing' That's who they are. That's what they do (1:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Asuncion' (closes on Sunday) Jesse Eisenberg plays a confirmed slacker in a bromance with his former African studies professor (Justin Bartha) in this genial wisp of a comedy written by Mr. Eisenberg (1:40). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, rattlestick.org. (Isherwood)
'Attica' and 'Man of Flesh & Cardboard' (closes on Sunday) Peter Schumann's Bread and Puppet company pairs two works of street theater, in all their giant-headed satire and outrage. ''Attica'' was first presented 40 years ago in the weeks following the notorious handling of the upstate prison riot, and ''Man of Flesh & Cardboard,'' a new piece, is no less scalding in considering the case of Pvt. Bradley Manning, the Army private jailed upon suspicion of providing thousands of government files to WikiLeaks (1:40). Theater for the New City, 155 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 254-1109, theaterforthenewcity.net. (Daniel M. Gold)
- 'Baby Wants Candy' (closes on Saturday) A talent-rich cast accomplishes the feat of an improvised musical, making it look effortless. Saturday at 10 p.m. only (1:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com. (Zinoman)
'Burning' (closes on Saturday) Thomas Bradshaw's repellent, magnetic play -- about rampaging erotic impulses among untalented show people in New York and neo-Nazis in Berlin -- tramples the lines that divide the good, the bad and the plug ugly in art and in life. Scott Elliott directs a brave if uneven cast in an X-rated production guaranteed to divide audiences (2:45). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'A Christmas Carol' (closes on Sunday) Reid Farrington's multimedia mash-up is a fascinating if hollow exploration of dozens of film versions of the Dickens standard (1:10). Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, abronsartscenter.org. (Zinoman)
- 'Elective Affinities' (closes on Sunday) The great Zoe Caldwell portrays a patrician woman of warming charm and a core of ice in David Adjmi's short, seductive monologue about money and power, directed by Sarah Benson. This site-specific production, staged in a Fifth Avenue apartment, is performed for an audience of only 30 (1:00). The Hauptmann Residence, (212) 352-3101, hauptmannresidence.com. (Brantley)
'Hand to God' (closes on Sunday) The Devil is a sock puppet in this foul-mouthed, fun-packed play by Robert Askins about the urges that drive good men (and women, and boys) to dirty deeds. Exuberantly performed by a great cast, led by Steven Boyer as a troubled teenager at odds with his id (1:45). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Horsedreams' (closes on Saturday) Dael Orlandersmith's new play about addiction is harrowing, direct and modest (1:20). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Zinoman)
'James X' (closes on Sunday) Written and performed by Gerard Mannix Flynn and partly based on the harrowing experiences of his youth, this solo piece directed by Gabriel Byrne serves as an indictment of decades of sexual abuse and brutality against children in religious and state institutions in Ireland. But the seldom-affecting play dilutes its impact by favoring fussy performance technique and literary embellishment over hard-hitting emotional truth (1:30). 45 Bleecker Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Rooney)
- 'Krapp's Last Tape' (closes on Sunday) The great British actor John Hurt gives a superlative performance as Samuel Beckett's embittered 69-year-old man revisiting a moment in his life some 30 years before, captured in amber via the tape recorder. A bracing hour of theater that mixes a few dollops of scabrous humor into a bleak vision of the elusive nature of even momentary happiness (:55). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Isherwood)
'Mama, I Want to Sing' (closes on Saturday) A largely new cast (seeded from the Gospel for Teens program in Harlem) gives full-throated life to this long-running gospel musical. Quibbles about the thin plot and questionable acting go out the window with each and every tune -- and there are plenty of them. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org. (Grode)
'The Man Who Came to Dinner' (closes on Sunday) In this revival from 1939, Jim Brochu plays a stiletto-tongued writer and New York radio host stranded in small-town Ohio, where he terrorizes the family hosting him. Seventy years ago the nonstop machine-gun fire of one-liners in this Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman comedy probably felt fresh and topical, but the humor has proven highly perishable. Most of the jokes rely on allusions to contemporaneous cultural touchstones that have since lost their currency, like the Lindbergh baby, Booth Tarkington and Horace Greeley (2:25). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, thepeccadillo.com. (Catherine Rampell)
- 'Misterman' (closes on Thursday) A gripping (as in by the throat) monologue of play, written and directed by Enda Walsh, in which a godly, dangerous young man (an electrifying Cillian Murphy) summons one apocalyptic day in an Irish village (1:30). St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Brantley)
'Standing on Ceremony: The Gay Marriage Plays' (closes on Sunday) Paul Rudnick's riotous contributions are among the highlights of this affirmative compendium of short plays celebrating how changing laws are changing lives. Neil LaBute, Doug Wright and Jose Rivera are among the other contributors (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Titus Andronicus' (closes on Sunday) Today's torture-porn movies have nothing on Shakespeare's blood-drenched early tragedy, presented here in a crude but colorful production directed by Michael Sexton and featuring Jay O. Sanders as the title character, a much-abused Roman captain who wreaks spectacular revenge on his enemies, and Ron Cephas Jones as perhaps the most luxuriantly evil character Shakespeare ever created (2:40). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
- 'Venus in Fur' (closes on Sunday) The incandescent Nina Arianda recreates her dazzling turn as an actress auditioning for the role of a 19th-century dominatrix in David Ives's seriously funny sex comedy about power games at an audition. Hugh Dancy holds his own as the writer-director who may be discovering more than he wants to know about the destabilizing nature of desire. The production is scheduled to move to the Lyceum Theater with shows beginning Feb. 7 (1:45). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Wearing Lorca's Bowtie' (closes on Saturday) This impressionistic mood piece about urban loneliness produces lovely images but lacks focus (1:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, new42.org. (Zinoman)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THE CHERRY ORCHARD': Andrei Belgrader's heartbreakingly funny production of Chekhov's play, which features an excellent Dianne Wiest and John Turturro, finds the tragicomic rhythms in misfired words and gestures. A delicate slapstick ballet that illuminates Chekhov's singular vision of why people fail to connect. From left,Ms. Weist, Slate Holmgren, Roberta Maxwell, Daniel Davis and Mr. Turturro. (2:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); THEATER (74%); MUSIC (68%); WRITERS (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: DANNY K DAVIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



690 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ONLINE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words

 BODY:
SLIDE SHOW: Benton Harbor, an economically vibrant manufacturing center through the 1960s, has, like other towns in Michigan, fallen to extreme decline after jobs started disappearing. Once a home to more than 20,000 people, its population today is close to 10,000.
nytimes.com/magazine 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



691 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
8 P.M. (TNT) CHRISTMAS IN WASHINGTON 2011 For 30 years ''Christmas in Washington'' has drawn political luminaries for a night of entertainment to benefit the Children's National Medical Center. President Obama (above, with his daughter Malia), attended this concert, which was taped on Sunday and hosted by Conan O'Brien. This year's performers included Justin Bieber, Jennifer Hudson, Cee Lo Green and the Band Perry.
9 A.M. (Cinemax) WALL STREET (1987) Bud Fox (Charlie Sheen), a brassy young stockbroker, falls in with the reptilian Gordon Gekko (Michael Douglas), who corrupts him with promises of making easy money by trading on illegal information. The film is considered a time capsule of the go-go '80s, with enduring lessons on greed and hubris. 
2 P.M. (HBO 2) THE SOUND OF MUMBAI: A MUSICAL (2010) A chorus of children from the slums of Mumbai sings ''The Sound of Music'' at the National Center for the Performing Arts, a lavish retreat for that city's privileged class. This documentary, directed by Sarah McCarthy, offers a view of inequality in contemporary Indian society.
6 P.M. (SHO2) THE MESSENGER (2009) Staff Sgt. Will Montgomery (Ben Foster), a troubled Iraq war veteran struggling to readjust to life outside the combat zone, is assigned to a so-called angels-of-death squadron, charged with delivering bereavement news to families of the fallen. The saber-rattling of his partner, the blustery Capt. Tony Stone (Woody Harrelson, right), and the incessant reports of new casualties haunt an increasingly fragile Will, who eventually develops feelings for a young widow (Samantha Morton).
8 P.M. (NBC) CHUCK Robyn Cunnings (Rebecca Romijn, a guest star) is an unrelenting superspy whose professionalism clashes with the slacker ethic of Chuck (Zachary Levi). Chuck and Sarah (Yvonne Strahovski) join forces to dismantle a computer virus.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW This episode, hosted by Maria Hinojosa, investigates how the economic downturn has affected large cities. The first segment highlights a day in the life of Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, who struggles to attract businesses to a city with 10 percent unemployment and a poverty rate of almost 30 percent. Ms. Hinojosa also speaks with Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute, about improving public health in urban communities. Tricia Rose, a Brown University professor, joins the program for the ''American Voices'' segment to share her ideas for spurring job creation for poor neighborhoods' minority residents.
9 P.M. (13) GREAT PERFORMANCES: THE LITTLE MERMAID FROM SAN FRANCISCO BALLET Organized by John Neumeier, the director of the Hamburg Ballet, to commemorate the bicentennial of Hans Christian Andersen's birth, this show reinterprets his popular fairy tale. Yuan Yuan Tan, left, plays the Little Mermaid, and Lloyd Riggins portrays the Poet, a role meant to represent Andersen. This program is presented as part of the PBS Arts Fall Festival.
9 P.M. (Science) DO WE NEED THE MOON? Most people know that the Moon affects tidal cycles, but it is not as widely known that it also influences wildlife, earthquakes and volcanic activity. This program uses computer modeling to simulate the way life would change if the Moon were closer or farther away.
10 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC The child sexual-abuse case involving Jerry Sandusky, a former assistant football coach at Penn State, has raised questions about another local mystery. In 1998 the district attorney of Centre County, Pa., Ray Gricar, learned about an accusation against Mr. Sandusky, but he declined to prosecute him. Then in April 2005, Mr. Gricar vanished. The police recovered his car, cellphone and laptop, although the hard drive was damaged beyond repair. But they have never found Mr. Gricar. Lester Holt investigates whether there is a connection between the Penn State scandal and Mr. Gricar's disappearance.
MIDNIGHT (TCM) THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER (1940) Love is hiding in plain sight at a gift shop in Budapest. This classic romantic comedy tells the story of a lonesome clerk, Alfred Kralik (James Stewart), who can't stand the new saleswoman, Klara Novak (Margaret Sullavan). What Alfred doesn't realize is that she is the same woman with whom he has shared a prolific correspondence of love letters. Ernst Lubitsch directed. THOMAS GAFFNEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (77%); MUSIC (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); DANCE COMPANIES (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); ETHICS (63%); POVERTY RATES (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); THEATER (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (50%)

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (79%); CEE LO GREEN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CONAN O'BRIEN (56%); CHARLIE SHEEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (90%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



692 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Underpayment Can Be a Norm at Small Businesses

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN and IDALMY CARRERA. 
klydersen@chicagonewscoop.org; carrera@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
In 2005 Carlos Ruiz lost part of a thumb when it was caught in machinery at Little Village Car Wash, where he had worked since coming to Chicago from Mexico City in 2000. After the accident, he moved to washing cars by hand, and for six years he worked 12-hour shifts three days a week, earning about $40 a day.
Co-workers reported similar pay: Only tips and a small fee per car. 
''It could be $60 a day, or it could be $30 or $20, for 12 hours,'' said Martin Montoya, 28, a former co-worker who came to Chicago from Tijuana two years ago.
The wages Mr. Montoya and Mr. Ruiz, 32, say they earned are well below the Illinois minimum of $8.25 an hour, which has led Arise Chicago, advocates for workers' rights, to organize protests. At one last month, protesters descended on Little Village Car Wash brandishing squeegees and asserting that workers were owed tens of thousands of dollars in back pay. The car wash's owner did not return phone calls, and a manager on the premises declined to talk.
In recent years, advocates and government officials have filed high-profile charges of labor law violations against major companies operating big-box stores, slaughterhouses and warehouses. But according to several academic studies and workers' rights groups, small businesses like car washes, diners, corner grocery stores and neighborhood butchers may be more likely than large employers to underpay workers.
A 2008 study of 4,387 low-wage workers in Chicago, New York and Los Angeles found that 82 percent of people who worked more than 40 hours a week at businesses with fewer than 100 employees were not paid all overtime due. At large employers, the number was 52 percent.
The study, led by researchers at the University of Illinois at Chicago, the University of California at Los Angeles and Cornell University, also found that 28 percent of workers at smaller businesses earned less than the minimum wage, compared with 15 percent of workers at larger ones.
Omar Duque, president and chief executive of the Illinois Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, said small businesses faced less scrutiny than large corporations. ''I can definitely see how and why small, family-owned, community-based businesses might be more inclined to try to skirt some labor laws,'' Mr. Duque said.
Nik Theodore, director of the Center for Urban Economic Development at the University of Illinois at Chicago and an author of the study, said business owners often rationalized underpayments.
''The employers see themselves as being good Samaritans rather than someone who's violating laws -- they say he's a recent immigrant so he's lucky to have a job,'' Mr. Theodore said. ''There are also cases where they know exactly what they're doing, and they are looking through co-ethnic networks for people who are exploitable.''
The Illinois Department of Labor has 23 investigators assigned to payment violations and ''diligently investigates any complaint it receives,'' said Anjali Julka, a department spokeswoman.
Advocates say it can take months for action from the state.
Proving charges against small businesses, which lack the sophisticated record keeping of large companies, can be difficult. Many small companies settle labor-law complaints out of court rather than engage in an expensive fight against an increasingly well-organized opposition.
That was the decision facing John Poulos, manager of the Phoenix Restaurant in Norridge, when Manuel Luz, a bus boy, said he was owed thousands of dollars in unpaid overtime from his seven-year tenure at the restaurant.
Mr. Luz said he worked 48 hours a week, Monday through Saturday, but he lacks the records to prove his case. Jamie Hayes, an Arise Chicago organizer, said the company bore responsibility for keeping work records. Mr. Poulos said the timecards he did have on file show that Mr. Luz worked only a handful of Saturdays.
Mr. Poulos said the owner agreed to pay $2,500 to Mr. Luz to avoid stress on the owner, an 82-year-old Greek immigrant in poor health.
''This restaurant has been in business for 21 years, and that's the first complaint we've ever had,'' Mr. Poulos said.
Mr. Luz, he said, was ''brainwashed'' by advocates with Arise Chicago and his church.
Mr. Luz said the $2,500 payment satisfied his complaint.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at Little Village Car Wash receive $20 to $60 for a 12-hour day, Martin Montoya, below, a former employee, said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (87%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); BACK PAY (76%); OVERTIME (76%); CITIES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RETAILERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



693 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley, Like Rivals, to Make Deep Job Cuts

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
8:32 p.m. Updated
It is a year to forget on Wall Street.
The final few months of 2011 have been a painful period of layoffs and cost-cutting in the finance industry, and it continued on Thursday, as Morgan Stanley announced that it would eliminate 1,600 jobs, or 2.6 percent of its work force, by the first quarter of 2012.
Many banks, facing economic and regulatory uncertainty, have embarked on widespread cost-cutting programs to improve profits. But Morgan Stanley waited longer than many of its competitors to make deep cuts to its work force. This month, Citigroup announced it would cut 4,500 jobs. Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and several other firms have also announced thousands of job cuts. 
''As we conduct our year-end performance management process and evaluate the right size of the franchise for 2012, we anticipate the elimination of approximately 1,600 positions across the firm globally,'' Jeanmarie McFadden, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, said in a statement.
In all, the securities industry in New York City lost nearly $3 billion in the third quarter, according to a report released on Thursday by Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York State comptroller. Profits at the city's securities companies, which include major Wall Street banks as well as smaller brokerage firms, now total $9.6 billion for 2011, and they are expected to fall far short of the $20 billion in profit officials had projected for the year, according to the report.
In another sign of the banks' struggles, Fitch Ratings lowered on Thursday the ratings of Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Goldman and others. Fitch cited concerns about the banks' financial health and long-term stability.
''There's no denying that business is dreadful, and banks are trimming back,'' said Chris Kotowski, a banking analyst with Oppenheimer. ''In an environment like this, people are going to look at everyone on their platform and say, is this person absolutely necessary?''
The job cuts have been severe. In an report released in October, Mr. DiNapoli estimated that another 10,000 people in the securities industry in New York could lose their jobs by the end of 2012, which would bring the total to 32,000 since January 2008.
''These firms are still going to make money, no question about it,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in an interview Thursday. ''But when you consider how strongly the year began, it is certainly ending very differently.''
At Morgan Stanley, the newest round of reductions is expected to hit all job levels in all divisions, including investment banking, trading and support functions, according to a person with knowledge of the plans who was not authorized to speak publicly. The 17,000 financial advisers in the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney unit are not expected to be affected by the cuts, the person said, though other employees in the unit may be laid off.
The cuts are not the first for Morgan Stanley, which announced in March that it had laid off 300 underperforming advisers in the Smith Barney unit. The bank has been trying to reduce noncompensation expenses by $1 billion over the next three years. In October, James P. Gorman, the chief executive, told analysts that Morgan Stanley would keep paying ''those employees who are delivering value.''
End-of-year layoffs are standard procedure on Wall Street. Many cut underperforming members of struggling divisions and adjust bonuses for the remaining staff.
But this year is different. ''Everybody gets lower bonus checks, and some people get a severance package,'' Mr. Kotowski of Oppenheimer said. ''This is not a Morgan Stanley thing, this is a Wall Street thing.''
The cuts have been large enough to worry New York City officials, whose budgets depend upon a relatively healthy financial sector. Personal income tax collection could drop by $200 million next year because of lower profits in the financial sector, and business and sales tax collection could drop by $100 million a year, the comptroller's report estimated.
''Having a downsize in employment in a sector that pays very well is not welcome news,'' Mr. DiNapoli said, citing what he called the ''multiplier effect,'' whereby each lost Wall Street job results in two additional lost jobs in other sectors in the city.
In addition to lost taxes, the downturn in the financial sector will most likely hurt profits for businesses in the real estate, automobile and luxury good sectors, which rely on financiers spending their bonuses. Those bonuses are expected to fall 20 to 30 percent this year compared with last year, according to a survey by Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm.
And while the Occupy Wall Street movement might not have much sympathy for smaller bonuses, Mr. DiNapoli said the effects of cutbacks could become a Main Street concern.
''It's a double-edged sword,'' he said. ''There may be some things you don't like about Wall Street, but for our city and state, we very much depend on it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Gorman, head of Morgan Stanley, has said the company will keep paying ''those employees who are delivering value.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



694 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Questioning The Benefit Of Curbing Short Sales

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Blame the shorts.
Back in what now seem to be the long-ago days of 2003 through 2007, when the economy seemed to be healthy and stocks were expected to rise as a matter of course, so-called naked short-selling was a subject of great interest to more than a few companies and politicians. The Securities and Exchange Commission responded with a new rule that was supposed to curb the practice.
This week the S.E.C. settled a case against a former options market maker for violating those rules in 2006 and 2007. The trader, Gary S. Bell, will pay $2.1 million to settle the allegations. Most of that is in the form of disgorging illegal profits, which shows, if nothing else, that finding a way around the rule was profitable.
To economists, restrictions on short-selling often seem to be foolish and costly impediments to efficient markets. To companies, and their executives, any short-selling -- whether legal or not -- can seem pernicious. That is particularly true when market stresses are at their greatest. It can become an article of faith that short-sellers are spreading false rumors aimed at destroying a company. 
A short-seller sells shares in a company that he does not own, hoping to repurchase them later at a lower price. Normally, a short-seller borrows the shares from someone who does own them, but when a stock seems especially overvalued such borrowing can become very expensive, if not impossible. Selling a stock that has not been borrowed is called naked shorting. Of course, the shares will not be delivered when the trade settles -- that is called a failure to deliver -- but the seller still stands to profit if the shares fall in price, and to lose money if they rise.
These days, it is not only the naked shorts that arouse ire. Governments in Europe have imposed bans on selling financial stocks short since the August market turmoil. Those bans have not kept financial stocks from being the worst-performing stocks on the Continent, but of course there is no way to know what would have happened without the ban.
It may or may not be relevant to note that financial shares in the United States, where the S.E.C. has resisted pressures to impose a comparable ban, have done better than their European brethren. But returns have been volatile here too, raising questions about whether shorts deserve blame for manipulating markets.
Historically, short-sellers have tended to be right a surprising amount of the time, at least in cases where the company grew upset enough to publicly complain. In 2004, a Yale professor, Owen Lamont, published a study of 266 companies that had publicly complained about short-selling during the quarter-century ending in 2002. Because some companies grew angry more than once, he studied a total of 327 share-price movements. On average, stocks underperformed the market by about 25 percentage points over the following year after they began to campaign against short-sellers.
Mr. Lamont conceded that such data did not prove the companies had been overvalued. An alternative explanation, favored by company managements, he wrote, ''is that short-sellers are actually manipulating prices, driving prices down over long periods of time.''
But he noted that a significant number of the companies turned out to be frauds. ''The evidence suggests that short-sellers play an important role in detecting not just overpricing, but fraud,'' he wrote. ''Policy makers might want to consider making the institutional and legal environment less hostile to short-sellers.''
The data Mr. Lamont used is now, of course, rather old. The S.E.C.'s rule to prevent naked short-selling dates from 2004, and was strengthened in 2008. Is there any evidence that those who violated the rule had similarly identified overpriced stocks?
The Bell case is at least the fourth one filed by the S.E.C. that claims violations of Regulation SHO by options market makers, but only the second one I could find that named actual stocks that were illegally shorted, the other being a 2009 case against traders who operated firms with the delightful names of Rhino Trading and Fat Squirrel Trading. All the cases concerned trading that took place before the rule was strengthened.
The two S.E.C. cases concern trades in 2006 and 2007. The strategies are common to both: options market makers, who enjoy a limited exemption from the rules, are said to have abused their position. They used options to create what are called synthetic shorts by the commission, and then used similar strategies to make it appear they had purchased shares to cover their short position when they had not actually done so. I'll spare you the details.
A total of eight stocks are mentioned in the two cases. One, NovaStar Financial, is named in both.
What these stocks certainly had in common was that people were so eager to sell them short that they were willing to evade the rules.
Reviewing the list brought back memories of bitter controversies. NovaStar was a subprime mortgage lender whose profits were doubted by shorts. There was litigation that claimed Wall Street firms had facilitated naked shorting, but in the end it was the financial crisis that did the company in. It collapsed in 2007, as did American Home Mortgage Investment Corporation, another company on the list.
Some of the companies were undoubtedly substantial, successful companies. One was the NYSE Group, the owner of the New York Stock Exchange. It is certainly still in business, but its shares trade for a fraction of what they fetched when the illegal shorting was taking place. The shorts thought enthusiasm for stock exchanges was overdone, and they were right.
Of the eight companies, only one was a good investment when the shorting was taking place. Chipotle Mexican Grill, a restaurant chain, was then thought by many to be overvalued, with its stock price dependent on growth that was unlikely to be achieved. In fact, the forecasts by its fans turned out to be conservative. The stock is now trading for nearly five times its average price when the illegal activity was taking place.
For the other seven, if short-selling -- legal or otherwise -- was holding down the price, the shorting may have increased market efficiency and reduced the losses that otherwise would have been suffered by those buying the shares at the time.
The New York Fed did a quick study this fall after markets plunged in August when Standard & Poor's decided to downgrade the credit of the United States government. That study, by Hamid Mehran, a Fed economist, and two finance professors from Notre Dame, Robert Battalio and Paul Schultz, also looked at the impact of the 2008 bans on short sales of financial stocks, which were imposed in many countries at the height of the financial crisis.
They concluded that there was no evidence that stocks then being sold by short-sellers did worse in August than did shares of other companies, and in fact a little evidence that they did better. That would seem to indicate that short-selling did not play a major role in the market turmoil.
''As a whole,'' they conclude, the evidence indicates ''no harm in the aggregate from short-selling during market downturns and no benefit from banning short-selling. There are likely to be other ill effects of short-sale bans besides decreased liquidity and higher trading costs. Short-sellers restrain management malfeasance by rooting out fraud and earnings manipulation. The evidence does not suggest short-sellers are the problem. They are the messengers with bad news about companies' prospects. They are unpopular because they deliver messages that people would rather not hear.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NovaStar Mortgage Inc. of Kansas City, Mo., was a unit of NovaStar Financial, a favorite of short-sellers that collapsed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ZURGA/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Owen Lamont of Yale found evidence ''that short-sellers play an important role in detecting not just overpricing, but fraud.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARVARD NEWS OFFICE) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (66%) MISSOURI, USA (72%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



695 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Bellevue Hospital Reflects on 275 Years of Taking Care

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Bellevue Hospital Center celebrated its 275th anniversary Thursday with what one hospital official called a ''conservative, restrained'' noontime event, consonant with economic hard times, in the hospital atrium on the east side of Manhattan. Although a 275th birthday might not match up in gravitas to 200 years or 250 or 300, there is a word for it: dodranstricentennial.
Besides, in the coming era of Medicaid cuts and federal healthcare overhaul, mere continuity is to be celebrated at a place like Bellevue, dedicated to serving the poor and uninsured, including illegal immigrants, who will still be uninsured and hence a drain on resources under healthcare reform. 
In honor of the occasion, the in-house historians at Bellevue have put together a list of firsts at Bellevue, sure to entrance trivia aficionados everywhere.
Bellevue, according to the hospital historians, is the oldest continually operating hospital in the country, from its founding in 1736 as a six-bed infirmary called the Almshouse Hospital on the site of what is now City Hall.
Its maternity ward was founded in 1799, and it incorporated its own medical school, Bellevue Hospital Medical College, in 1861. In 1869, it started the first hospital-based horse-and-buggy ambulance service in the country.
A Bellevue doctor, David Hosack, treated Alexander Hamilton after he was fatally wounded in his duel with Aaron Burr. Two months after graduating from Bellevue Medical College, Dr. Charles Augustus Leale was the first doctor in the box after John Wilkes Booth shot President Abraham Lincoln in Ford's Theater, according to the timeline.
In 1866, Bellevue doctors helped develop New York City's sanitary code, the first in the world, according to the historians.
Among the famous people who have died at Bellevue is Stephen Foster, composer of ''Oh! Susanna'' and other old-time hits. Mr. Foster died at 37 in 1864. True to Bellevue's mission of serving the poor, he was broke. O. Henry, the short-story writer, died at Bellevue in 1910, also destitute. Leadbelly, the folk and blues singer, died at Bellevue in 1949; the hospital timeline does not reveal his financial status.
Hospitals now have itinerant clowns, usually loners who seem to be trying too hard, to entertain patients. But from 1908 to 1967, Bellevue patients were treated to Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey circus performances in the hospital courtyard.
The inventor of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Dr. David Wechsler, was chief psychologist at Bellevue for 25 years, from 1932 on.
Since 1964, Bellevue has been the New York hospital on stand-by to treat presidents, dignitaries, United Nations diplomats and injured firefighters and police.
Bellevue also occupies some dark corners of history, which the official timeline does not delve into. It is the place where a pregnant pathologist, Kathryn Hinnant, was raped, robbed and strangled in 1989 by a homeless man, Steven Smith. Mr. Smith had secretly lived in the hospital for a month before the murder, and said he had wandered the hospital wearing operating room scrubs and a stethoscope.
To many New Yorkers, the name Bellevue is shorthand for the place where New Yorkers, including criminals, are taken when they go crazy. (Psychiatry, by the way, is one of the few Bellevue services that is bursting at the seams.) The timeline takes note of this only in passing, saying that in 1879, Bellevue ''erects a pavilion for the insane within the hospital grounds, an approach deemed revolutionary at the time.''
It does not mention that Jacob Riis, the muckraking journalist, described the ''alcoholic cells'' in Bellevue as a ''way-station'' for the poor, who traveled among penitentiary, workhouse and almshouse.
It does not mention that a parade of writers and other creative types went through Bellevue's psychiatric service: Eugene O'Neill, after attempting suicide; Malcolm Lowry, while being treated for alcoholism; Norman Mailer, after stabbing his wife, Adele Morales.
Or, as Dr. Eric Manheimer, the hospital's medical director, said the other day, contemplating the meaning of the anniversary: ''We take care of everybody.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bellevue pictured from the East River in 1848, above. Below, a day camp aboard a ferryboat for tuberculosis patients, in 1908. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BELLEVUE HOSPITAL ARCHIVES)
 Bellevue Hospital Center celebrated its 275th continuous year on Thursday with a noontime event in the hospital atrium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (84%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); PATHOLOGY (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (61%); WRITERS (61%); HOMELESSNESS (61%); JAZZ & BLUES (60%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (55%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (51%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



696 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Venus Rising From Her Pretty Prison

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
How many of the world's problems would be solved, or at least greatly reduced, if women had true parity with men? Just think how having equal rights before the law, equal access to education and reproductive autonomy would affect women's ability to fulfill their potential worldwide. Then consider, as various writers have maintained, how this might increase the world's collective brain power and economic resources. There would also be benefits if men could be freed of misogyny and the debilitating self-hatred that it, like all bigotry, masks.
Old habits die very, very hard, as the news reminds us every day, but change begins with illumination -- attention, pointing, identifying and generally shining lights in dark places. News organizations play a role in this. So, increasingly, do crowds of people with cellphones and laptops. And so do certain kinds of art.
Sanja Ivekovic makes that kind of art: Conceptual in style, photo- and performance-based in approach, political in motivation, ardently and precisely feminist. And it is now the subject of a small but resonant and timely retrospective, covering more than 35 years, at the Museum of Modern Art. 
Ms. Ivekovic, who is Croatian, was born in Zagreb in 1949, when it was part of Yugoslavia under the dictatorship of Marshal Josip Broz Tito. She has worked and lived there ever since, experiencing firsthand quite a bit of tumultuous history, including the repressions and then the fall of Communism, the disintegration of Yugoslavia into hostile national groups and the catastrophic violence that followed. She has become increasingly adept at pointing at things, and ''Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence'' gives a succinct account of her progress.
Her work seems to have begun in relatively restrained feminist consciousness raising and become more public, insistent and wide ranging, often presaging appropriation art and relational aesthetics as it goes. Ms. Ivekovic's earliest pieces used magazines and personal photographs to dissect the particular dissatisfactions so often ingrained in women by various social forces, especially consumerism and the media (including state-controlled media). These works often read like missing links between American feminist artists who emerged in the '60s, like Martha Rosler and Hannah Wilkie, and later ones like Sherrie Levine and Ellen Brooks. For the 1975-76 ''Tragedy of a Venus'' Ms. Ivekovic simply took apart an adulatory photo essay tracing the life of Marilyn Monroe and paired each image with a related photograph from her own life, creating a point-counterpoint of yearning and aspiration that makes you look more closely at both sides of the equation.
More recently she has focused on various forms of violence, primarily against women, from physical abuse to displacement to erasure from history. In ''Women's House (Sunglasses),'' a continuing work initiated in 2002, she combines images of glamorous fashion models wearing sunglasses with short but searing first-person accounts from battered women (who, of course, often wear sunglasses to hide their bruises). The work exemplifies her ability to bring a fresh urgency to a familiar strategy.
Ms. Ivekovic's art is itself undergoing what might be called an un-erasing: it belongs to the ever-expanding history of art by women that is being added to every day by curators, art historians and critics. She is fairly well known in Europe and has also exhibited in Canada, but this exhibition, which has been organized by Roxana Marcoci, the Modern's curator of photography, is her first sizable exposure in the United States.
The art on view spans from 1974 to the present, with an assortment of photo-based works that offer impressive variations on the image-text combination so basic to Conceptual Art, as well as performance documentation, videos and video installations. The economy of means is often striking. For the ''Paper Women'' series of 1976-77 Ms. Ivekovic simply took images of models from magazines and scratched, tore and defaced them in surprisingly effective ways, cryptically implying acts of violence. For the 1974 video ''Sweet Violence,'' the earliest work here, she applied bands of black tape, suggestive of jail-cell bars, to a television screen and then shot a propaganda program promoting Tito's Third Way, a mix of socialism and free-market economics. Fluffy pillows, wine, Pepsi-Cola and glamorous couples enjoying recreational activities are featured; a materialistic lifestyle beyond the reach of most Yugoslavs is cheerfully encouraged. Ms. Ivekovic's intervention makes visible a prison house of desires.
The most flamboyant and public piece is ''Lady Rosa of Luxembourg,'' an insouciant sculpture installation that has taken over the museum's atrium. It consists of a Classical obelisk atop which balances a life-size statue of a very pregnant Greek-goddess figure, and the base of which is imprinted with a jarring combination of epithets and historic catchphrases (Whore, Kitsch, La Resistance).
Named for the Marxist philosopher and activist Rosa Luxemburg, who was murdered by Berlin police during the thwarted German Revolution of 1919, this work caused a furor when it was exhibited in Luxembourg in 2001, in part because it was displayed in a public park within sight of a nearly identical but unpregnant sculpture that is a war monument. Wall vitrines lined with newspaper clippings attest to the extensive press coverage it received, as do excerpts from television news interviews playing on monitors. ''Lady Rosa'' clearly functioned as a kind of lightning rod, as interesting for what it set off as for what it actually was. In one television interview a young man points out that people were more offended by the words on the sculpture's base than by the fact that countless women and children are beaten and abused every day.
In the catalog Ms. Marcoci creates a vivid picture of a Yugoslav art scene in which avant-garde tendencies dating back to the early 1950s reflected a country that saw itself as ''a multinational state unique in its defiance of Stalin,'' more inclined to form cultural ties with Italy and Austria than with the Soviet Union. After the 1968 student uprisings in Western Europe, young Yugoslav artists were even less interested in official art channels, or in conventional art making.
Ms. Ivekovic figures only intermittently in this narrative, and it is easy to see why. For one thing the scene was largely dominated by men. And her early work has a strange home-alone quality and an intense focus. It is clearly made by a woman dealing with her emerging feminist consciousness, making the most of materials immediately at hand. In the 1978 video ''Make Up-Make Down'' we see the artist's neck, chest and hands as she languorously, and somewhat suggestively, picks up and opens tubes of foundation, mascara and lipstick. The face to which these substances are applied -- the focus of the desire for improvement -- never appears on camera.
Even at her most sensational Ms. Ivekovic maintains a certain discretion. In the 1979 private performance ''Triangle'' she sat on her apartment balcony as an official parade passed on the street below, pretending to masturbate, knowing that she would probably be observed by security officers with walkie-talkies on the roof of an adjacent building. She was shortly ordered off the balcony by another security officer calling from her building's lobby. Photographs show the triangle: the artist sitting rather primly on her balcony, the silhouette of the first officer on the roof and the crowd below. The piece offers fleeting yet chilling evidence of the intrusive power of the state, something like the novel ''1984'' in extreme miniature.
In the wake of ''Triangle'' Ms. Ivekovic's work has been more expansive in its ominousness. In the video re-creation of her 1982 performance piece ''Practice Makes a Master,'' a female performer in a black dress and heels with a white plastic bag over her head repeatedly falls, stands up and falls again, as if rehearsing an execution. On the soundtrack the recording of Marilyn Monroe singing ''That Old Black Magic'' repeats at ever slower rates, until she sounds like a man. This adds a touch of vaudevillian slapstick, but the suggestion that women's relationships with men are often just gentler forms of obliteration is not exactly funny.
Also effective is ''Resnik,'' a 1994 installation named for a mostly Muslim refugee camp near Zagreb. It involves a small room filled with potted plants and a video projection showing a barren countryside seen from a train. The landscape goes black, and words pop onto the screen conjuring alienation and isolation: ''Exotic'' ''Mistake'' ''Strange'' ''Dangerous'' ''Other.'' The contrast between the open fields and the claustrophobic space, between the unkempt land and the hothouse plants, is gripping, as are the strange ways the words hit and miss, link up and don't.
And in ''Rohrbach Living Memorial,'' a 2005 installation, Ms. Ivekovic effectively triangulates a small Nazi-era photograph of Gypsies rounded up for deportation to a concentration camp; a video of a group of current citizens of Rohrbach, Austria, sitting in their village square and silently reliving this situation; and us, the viewers, standing in a small gallery between the sepia-tone photograph and the video. The villagers look somber, but also intermittently restless and bored, which is also how you may feel. Then it may dawn: It is difficult to imagine facing death when you're not. Suddenly the piece evolves into a very pointed lesson not just in history and memory, but in the importance of empathy and the ability to put yourself in other people's places. Ms. Ivekovic's spare, selfless art is full of such unexpected twists and thought-provoking turns.
''Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence'' is at the Museum of Modern Art through March 26; (212) 708-9400, moma.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence: ''Make Up-Make Down,'' a 1978 video at this show at the Museum of Modern Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANJA IVEKOVIC/MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, NEW YORK.) (C31)
Sanja Ivekovic's works at the Museum of Modern Art. From the top, ''Lady Rosa of Luxembourg,'' (2001)
''Women's House (Sunglasses),'' from 2004
a video re-creation of Ms. Ivekovic's 1982 performance piece ''Practice Makes a Master,'' in which a performer puts a plastic bag over her head and repeatedly falls, stands up and falls again
and ''Personal Cuts,'' a 1982 video. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SANJA IVEKOVIC/MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, NEW YORK) (C38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); WOMEN (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); WRITERS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



697 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Information Collection, Canal Restrictions and Other Intrusions Into Your Life

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for The Chicago News Cooperative.
Libertarians and Tea Party die-hards would gag over The Federal Register, the daily compendium of new rules, regulations, actions and related matters proposed or enacted by their government.
If you doubted Washington's reach into our lives -- good, bad and indifferent -- you should check it out. A casual perusal over the last few days revealed the following: 
The Federal Aviation Administration is proposing fixes for certain 777-200 and -300 series aircraft made by the Chicago-based Boeing Company and equipped with Rolls-Royce RB211 Trent 800 engines.
Passengers might not be thrilled to learn that the F.A.A has received 14 reports of ''events'' related to thermal damage in the inner wall of the thrust reverser (T/R) on the engines.
''The events have included air turnbacks, in-flight engine shutdowns, T/R inner wall panel sections and parts being separated from the airplane, collapse of the inner T/R inner wall panels, and engine fire loop fault messages,'' according to what is called an airworthiness directive.
In rich bureaucratese, we learn that failure in the thrust reverser ''could result in large pieces of the T/R or adjacent components departing the airplane.'' Such departures could prompt ''a rejected takeoff and consequent loss of control of the airplane.''
The agency figures that its proposal would affect 55 planes and cost about $4.2 million to fix. The estimate includes a parts cost of $75,000 for each plane, and labor cost of $1,360, or 16 hours of work at $85 an hour.
If Boeing can't cobble together the $4.2 million, I suggest it run to Springfield, where it can surely extract tax breaks from legislators who have been especially submissive to corporations lately.
The Department of Homeland Security is not just looking for terrorists; it's trolling for Asian carp near Romeoville.
It is establishing navigational and environmental restrictions on all vessels cruising the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal near Romeoville, lest they cause trouble with the Army Corps of Engineers' ''electrical dispersal fish barrier system.''
If, inexplicably, you don't know, be informed that the corps installed a series of electrical barriers in the canal. They're about 30 miles from Lake Michigan and generate ''an electric field in the water by pulsing low-voltage DC current through steel cables secured to the bottom of the canal,'' the Federal Register announcement says.
The purpose is to prevent and reduce dispersal of the carp in the canal. There's also anxiety about ''the potential transport of carp eggs, gametes and juvenile fish in bilge, ballast, or other nonpotable water from south of the barriers to waters north of the barriers.''
But the Coast Guard believes that the electric current poses risks to commercial vessels, recreational boaters and people near parts of the canal, so it is restricting navigation.
All vessels and people are hereby barred from dredging, laying cable, dragging, fishing, conducting salvage operations or doing anything else to potentially disturb the bottom of the relevant area. And if an individual must be on an open deck, he ''must wear a Coast Guard-approved personal flotation device.''
Federal regulations must pass muster with various laws and directives. Thus, in revealing what is known as a final rule, the department goes through a necessary check list and says the rule won't have any big economic impact on ''small entities'' under the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
There's more, which might leave a libertarian apoplectic:
The department indicates that the Romeoville rule won't trigger collection of information under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995; won't violate the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995; won't take anybody's private property; does not create a risk to children under Executive Order 13045, Protection of Children from Environmental Health Risks and Safety Risks; and has no tribal implications under Executive Order No. 13175, Consultation and Coordination with Indian Tribal Governments, among other matters.
Finally, the Labor Department will study whether workers believe they have a ''voice'' in the workplace. It's enlisting Gallup Inc. for what a proposed ''information collection request'' calls a ''new and unique'' gambit that ''will be groundbreaking in the voice (as defined for this study) literature and may lead to follow-on research articles.''
So it's doing research to lead to better research. It might find us jobs first. With more competition for their services, workers will have a greater voice, I bet.
But, at minimum, the study may at least succeed in turning some Democrats into Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FISHES (85%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (84%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (75%); TERRORISM (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (71%); ARMIES (70%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); ENGINEERING (60%); MARINE VESSELS (60%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (60%); LAKES (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



698 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Citing 'Legal Error,' S.E.C. Says It Will Appeal Rejection of Citigroup Settlement

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission said on Thursday that it would appeal a federal court decision that harshly rejected a settlement between the commission and Citigroup over securities fraud charges related to the financial crisis.
In a statement accompanying a filing in Federal District Court in New York, the agency cited ''legal error'' in the decision in late November and said it would ask the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit to overturn the opinion of Judge Jed S. Rakoff. In the ruling, the judge rejected an agreement for Citigroup to pay $285 million and accept an injunction against future violations of an antifraud provision of federal securities laws.
Judge Rakoff's ruling shook a central pillar of federal securities law, potentially upending a practice that allows the S.E.C. to settle hundreds of enforcement cases each year. The commission usually settles charges with companies by getting them to pay a fine and agreeing to reimburse investors without making them admit or deny the charges. 
Citigroup was charged by the S.E.C. with fraud for selling a $1 billion fund in 2006 and 2007 that invested in mortgage-related securities without telling investors that the bank was betting against many of the securities. Citigroup, which has said it disagrees with Judge Rakoff's decision, is expected to support the appeal.
Judge Rakoff dismissed the proposed settlement as ''neither fair, nor reasonable, nor adequate, nor in the public interest,'' in part because Citigroup did not have to admit or deny the charges. Judge Rakoff said that without an admission or evidence that Citigroup violated the law, he had no way to determine whether the settlement was adequate.
The S.E.C., in a statement issued Thursday, sharply criticized the judge's decision.
''We believe the district court committed legal error by announcing a new and unprecedented standard that inadvertently harms investors by depriving them of substantial, certain and immediate benefits,'' Robert Khuzami, the S.E.C.'s director of enforcement, said in the statement.
''The court's new standard is at odds with decades of court decisions that have upheld similar settlements by federal and state agencies across the country,'' Mr. Khuzami said. ''Courts have routinely approved settlements in which a defendant does not admit or even expressly denies liability, exactly because of the benefits that settlements provide.''
Appealing the judgment carries risk for the S.E.C., because if the ruling is upheld by the circuit court, it would set a precedent that is likely to influence judges hearing similar S.E.C. cases.
The Second Circuit court, located in New York, hears many cases involving financial issues and securities laws; though its decisions are not binding on other circuits, they often influence judges around the country because of the court's familiarity with securities law, experts say.
Judge Rakoff's decision also could affect many other types of civil settlements forged by government regulators. Several other agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the Federal Trade Commission, have settled civil cases by letting a defendant avoid having to admit or deny the charges.
Securities law experts say they know of only one previous instance where the S.E.C. appealed a federal judge's rejection of a commission settlement -- and the S.E.C. won that appeal. In 1983, a federal district court judge in San Francisco rejected an insider trading settlement because he thought the penalty was inadequate and did ''not appear to be in the public's best interest.''
The next year, in S.E.C. v. Randolph, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the decision, saying ''the courts should pay deference to the judgment of the government agency which has negotiated and submitted the proposed settlement.''
While it was correct to consider the public interest, the appeals court said, that does not mean the ''best interest'' possible. ''Compromise is the essence of a settlement,'' the court said.
In the Citigroup case, Judge Rakoff said in his decision that investors lost more than $700 million in the transaction, and he criticized the proposed penalty as ''pocket change to any entity as large as Citigroup.''
The S.E.C. batted away the importance of Citigroup's size. ''The law does not permit the commission to seek penalties based upon a defendant's wealth,'' Mr. Khuzami said.
There are limits to the size of penalties that the S.E.C. is allowed to assess in such a case. The $285 million settlement, all of which would be returned to investors, includes a $95 million penalty, a $160 million disgorgement of profits and fees earned on the securities offering, and $30 million in prejudgment interest. The S.E.C. recently asked Congress to amend the law to allow it to seek bigger penalties.
Whether the S.E.C. could be hampered in its efforts to settle other fraud cases while the appeal is outstanding is uncertain. Two former S.E.C. enforcement officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they now represent clients facing S.E.C. charges in separate cases, said the commission seemed to have slowed its settlement efforts since Judge Rakoff's ruling.
A person involved in another S.E.C. settlement matter said there had been no slowdown, in part because commission officials have made clear that they expected Judge Rakoff's decision to be overturned.
The S.E.C. has long contended that it must settle most cases rather than take them to trial because, with limited resources, it cannot afford much litigation. The commission says it frequently achieves in its settlements much the same result that it could hope to obtain in court, without the expense of a trial.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judge Jed Rakoff said the deal wasn't ''in the public interest.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MAXON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS (92%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUDGES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



699 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Talk of Aid From Russia Buoys Markets in Europe

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and DAVID JOLLY; Stephen Castle reported from Brussels and David Jolly from Paris.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Europe took a breather Thursday as a surprisingly strong Spanish bond auction and hints of Russian bailout money for the region provided at least a temporary sense of calm in the financial markets.
Spain, which along with Italy is a euro zone member whose debt problems reverberate across the region, provided a measure of relief by raising $7.8 billion in a debt auction in Madrid at a lower-than-expected interest rate. Demand was brisk, perhaps on optimism for the new, conservative government that is about to be sworn in, and also because it was one of the last big bond auctions in Europe before the year-end holiday lull.
The yield on Italy's debt was also modestly lower in trading Thursday, as the government in Rome called a confidence vote for Friday on a new austerity package.
Meanwhile, the euro currency regained some of its recent losses against the dollar. Stocks in Europe and the United States were also broadly higher. 
Helping to buoy the markets, Russia said Thursday that it might pledge up to $20 billion via the International Monetary Fund to lend support to the euro zone's financial markets and economy.
After meeting with European Union leaders here, the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, said his country was ''interested in the European Union's preservation as a dynamic economic and political force'' and would consider assistance via the I.M.F. Though Russian leaders and officials face criticism for the conduct of recent elections, they arrived at the meeting in a strong position, knowing that Europe was seeking help from Moscow as well as courting other countries, like China and Brazil.
Mr. Medvedev's economic aide, Arkady V. Dvorkovich, said Russia would be ready immediately to let the I.M.F. keep $10 billion from a commitment made in 2009 that, he said, was due to be reimbursed.
A possible second loan from Russia of up to $10 billion was dependent on clearer plans emerging for the financing of a firewall for still-vulnerable euro zone nations like Italy and Spain, Mr. Dvorkovich added.
Although such amounts would be relatively modest compared with the hundreds of billions of dollars of rescue reserves that many economists say might be necessary to maintain investor confidence in the euro zone, analysts saw at least symbolic significance in the Russian offer.
''There has been a sort of strategic inversion in relations between Russia and the E.U.,'' said Thomas Gomart of the Institute for International Relations in Paris. ''In 1998, Russia defaulted, and around 14 years later, Russia is in a position to finance Europe. Psychologically, that is a very big change.''
While Russia might be willing to pitch in, the head of the European Central Bank on Thursday repeated his recent assertions that the central bank would not respond to widespread calls that it provide a financial firewall for the region's debt crisis by more aggressively buying government bonds.
In a Berlin speech, the bank's president, Mario Draghi, said that the euro zone's ''firewall'' was supposed to be the bailout fund set up by European governments.
And yet plans to increase the financial firepower of that bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, to 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) -- the target set by European Union leaders -- have fallen short. The I.M.F. is expected to help make up some of the shortfall, but the fund is still waiting to hear the details of how the euro zone will put together a new contribution of up to 200 billion euros to the I.M.F.
Another European Union summit meeting on the crisis has been tentatively scheduled for the end of January or beginning of February.
Where some analysts see the European Central Bank as being more effective lately is in the new medium-term lending program for commercial banks that it announced last week. In the program, which goes into effect next week, the central bank will start providing banks loans for three years, compared with a previous maximum of about one year.
The central bank last week also cut its benchmark interest rate target to 1 percent from 1.25 percent.
Those moves, more than any new-found confidence in Spain, might help explain the success of Thursday's Spanish bond auction. Charles Diebel, head of market strategy at Lloyds Banking Group in London, said demand was probably driven in part by banks' taking advantage of low borrowing costs.
''If you can get funding from the E.C.B. at 1 percent and buy bonds from the Spanish government at 5.4 percent, that carries pretty well for three years,'' he said. ''You're earning 440 basis points'' -- 4.4 percentage points. -- Mr. Diebel said.
But Steven Saywell, head of global currency strategy in London for the French bank BNP Paribas, cautioned against reading too much into Thursday's developments. ''To really turn things around, we're going to need more aggressive action from the E.C.B.,'' Mr. Saywell said. ''I don't think this is a turning point.''
The 6 billion euros, or $7.8 billion, of bonds the Spanish Treasury sold Thursday was far above the 3.5 billion euro target it had set for the auction.
The sale included 2.2 billion euro of 10-year bonds, priced to yield 5.24 percent -- down from the 5.43 percent it had to pay to sell similar securities on Oct. 20.
The yield for 10-year bonds of Italy fell 0.22 percentage point, to 6.514 percent, in the open market Thursday as the country's new prime minister, Mario Monti, called for a vote of confidence Friday on his austerity budget. Mr. Monti hopes to secure support and speed passage of the 30 billion-euro ($39 billion) emergency budget plan that he says is necessary to reduce Italy's debt burden.
The euro ticked back above $1.30 during trading Thursday, up from an 11-month low of $1.2946. But Mr. Saywell predicted the euro would remain weak in the near term, with selling driven both by fears of a breakup of the currency union as well as more prosaic concerns about the economic outlook. The European economy is now widely expected to be mired in recession for at least part of next year.
A survey of euro zone purchasing managers, reported Thursday, showed both the services and manufacturing sectors continuing to contract for a fourth straight month in December. Markit Economics said that its composite index rose to 47.9 from 47 in November, but still signaled a contraction. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.
Online Correction: December 15, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article gave a wrong date for when the European Central Bank's new medium-term bank financing program, announced last week, goes into effect. It is next week, not Thursday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE TANTUSSI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); INTEREST RATES (56%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); ITALY (94%); SPAIN (94%); BELGIUM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



700 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 37A

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: A One-Time Industrial Hub With Few Prospects

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Down the Port Chicago Highway in Bay Point -- past the half-empty Shore Acres shopping center, across the railroad tracks -- sits the McAvoy Marina, a decaying boat dock where a giant restaurant is shuttered and crumbling on the southern edge of Suisun Bay.
To the east is a polluted marsh that for decades served as a dumping ground for toxins released by the adjoining Shell Oil chemical plant; to the west is the sprawling plant operated by General Chemical, which has laid off two-thirds of its union employees since the recession began.
''I'm struggling to stay positive,'' said Vince Diaz, a representative at the International Chemical Workers Union. ''But I've told them all, don't hold onto hope of coming back here. Try to get yourself out there and find other work.''
But in Bay Point, finding work has been difficult. Unemployment stands at nearly 20 percent. A century ago, the town's proximity to the Carquinez Strait and two rail lines made it an ideal place for a factory. During World War II, the Navy built warships here. 
Today, this unincorporated section of Contra Costa County seems a world away from the economic engine of Silicon Valley. Other cities in the Bay Area are trying to revitalize troubled neighborhoods. In San Francisco, fast-growing Twitter is opening offices in the Mid-Market section. Menlo Park looks to Facebook to stabilize the impoverished Belle Haven area.
But planners say Bay Point, the former industrial heartland of the Bay Area, faces a bleak and uncertain future.
''In some ways, Bay Point has more in common with declining industrial suburbs in the Midwest than it does with the rest of the Bay Area,'' said Alan Berube, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who is researching suburban poverty.
This was not the plan. Fifteen years ago, when BART extended its Concord line eastward, the transit agency put the terminus in Bay Point, a move intended to help revitalize the area. But while the BART expansion helped spark a housing boom and population explosion in neighboring Antioch and Brentwood, Bay Point's population declined slightly over the past decade to 21,349, according to Census Bureau reports. The median household income is less than $45,000, making the area poorer than East Palo Alto or Richmond.
''There are no jobs,'' said Eva Garcia, who runs a local career center. ''All we have are a McDonald's, Taco Bell, a few auto shops and mom-and-pop stores that don't really have employees.''
A Walgreen's pharmacy is Bay Point's largest retail business. Residents and business owners complain that prostitutes troll Willow Pass Road.
''The people here aren't here because of a choice, but because they can't afford anything else,'' said Ana Sanchez, 30, the owner of Hermosa Beauty Salon. On a Monday afternoon, all seven chairs in her salon were vacant.
Over the years, Bay Point has repeatedly tried to turn the page on its fading industrial history. In 1993, citizens voted to change the name of their town from West Pittsburg, in an effort at rebranding. Three years later, the BART station was completed, and in 2002 the Contra Costa County Redevelopment Agency began buying 28 homes a block from the station, which it then demolished for a new transit-oriented development to spur a revitalization of the wider area.
The development, called Orbisonia Heights, was to include 325 apartment units and 40,000 square feet of commercial space. But although the 28 homes have been razed, construction has stalled and the area is now a six-acre vacant lot.
''There are a lot of vacancies and foreclosures, and our studies show there's just not a market there for dense residential development,'' said Maureen Toms, a program manager with the redevelopment agency.
When regional officials are asked what types of companies might come to replace jobs lost at old industrial employers, they say they are stumped.
''When the big employers make location decisions, their bottom lines are transportation access, location and a well-trained labor market,'' said Patrick Roche, a principal planner for Contra Costa County.
Bay Point is far from Silicon Valley and unlikely to attract a high-tech, suburban business park like the ones around the Pleasanton BART station in eastern Alameda County, Mr. Roche said. The industrial heartland along Suisun Bay is not on a major regional highway, so it is unable to attract large warehousing operations that have clustered around Interstate 80 in Solano County.
And the lack of education among Bay Point's work force is also a problem, Mr. Roche said. Less than 15 percent of the town's residents have a bachelor's degree, among the lowest rates in the Bay Area.
At the career center run by Ms. Garcia, most of the job-seekers said that they expected they would have to travel out of Bay Point to find work, but that they stayed in the community because it was the only part of the Bay Area they could afford.
''I'm trying to figure a way out; it's always on my mind,'' said Shimia Mixon, 34, an unemployed administrative assistant with three children, who was using the center's computer to work on her resume. Ms. Mixon said she had lived in subsidized housing in Bay Point for the last 12 years. ''I think if I could find some stability somewhere else, I would be better off,'' she said.
Jan Perry, 56, said she hated Bay Point, but could not find anywhere else to live after she lost her job as a sales representative and then her Pleasant Hill home to foreclosure.
Mr. Roche, the county planner, said this could be Bay Point's destiny, as a place for people who cannot afford to live in the Bay Area's big cities and suburbs.
But in Bay Point, not everyone is willing to accept that fate. ''There will be change, but it will take a little bit longer than we thought,'' Ms. Garcia said as she stood next to an empty lot where Orbisonia Heights was to be built across from the BART station.
Gesturing toward Ambrose Park, in a ravine below the proposed development, Ms. Garcia talked of family barbecues and visits to the municipal pool on hot Labor Day weekends.
''Families from San Francisco would drive out here on the weekend and let their kids play all day in the pool in the hot weather,'' she said, ''and then the locals would come out in the afternoon when it cooled down.''
On the other side of town, adjacent to McAvoy Marina, the Pacific Gas and Electric Company has started to clean up land polluted by Shell Oil two generations ago. Officials plan to upgrade and expand the harbor with new boat slips, housing, restaurants and a boardwalk.
''The recession has to end and the housing market has to stabilize and turn around,'' said Ms. Toms of the redevelopment agency, ''but eventually there will be demand.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The future of Bay Point, a former industrial hub, appears bleak, planners say. Grocery carts full of belongings sit alongside the road by the train tracks.
 Homes in nearby Pittsburg. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH RICE FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); RECESSION (79%); POPULATION DECLINE (79%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); CENSUS (64%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

COMPANY: STE DES AUTOROUTES RHONE-ALPES SA (91%); SHELL OIL CO (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); TACO BELL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CHEMICAL WORKERS UNION (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (91%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



701 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Indictment of 55 In Cybercrime Expected Friday

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

 BODY:
The Manhattan district attorney's office plans on Friday to announce the indictment of 55 people who it said stole over $2 million as part of a cybercrime ring. 
Some of the ring's major targets were donors to UJA-Federation of New York, including some of the city's top philanthropists, whose financial information was stolen by an employee of the nonprofit organization, according to a person with direct knowledge of the case, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
UJA-Federation, the person said, was highly cooperative with prosecutors, and helped bring down the rogue employee. Representatives of UJA-Federation did not respond to requests for comment Thursday night.
The hundreds of victims came not only through the nonprofit agency, but also a Brooklyn car dealership and a real estate company, among others, the person said. Their customers had their bank account information stolen and then exploited by what appears to be a criminal cottage industry, according to this person.
Some ring members made counterfeit checks; others opened fake bank accounts; still others recruited new participants in the scheme or brokered the stolen information, said the person. Among the suspects, said the person, are bank tellers who turned a blind eye to the fraud.
The money, said the person, was used to buy merchandise from luxury retailers like Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Salvatore Ferragamo, as well as electronics, some of which were sold on the black market.
Several defendants are linked to a Brooklyn street gang called the Outlaws, the person said. At least one person who was under investigation was killed during the 18-month inquiry.
The link to the gang is significant because it may show a change in tactics for street criminals, who may have adopted cybercrime to bring their activities indoors, the person said.
This is one of a series of large-scale cybercrime cases brought by the district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., in recent weeks. More than 90 people were indicted in a theft from TD Bank this month, and in November, 28 people were indicted in a scheme involving skimming credit card information from steak-house patrons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); RETAILERS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); COUNTERFEITING (67%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (67%); GANGS (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (54%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (82%); SALVATORE FERRAGAMO ITALIA SPA (54%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (82%); LVMH (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (82%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



702 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: In Baghdad, Panetta Leads Uneasy Moment of Closure to a Long Conflict

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER, MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and ROBERT F. WORTH; Thom Shanker and Michael S. Schmidt reported from Baghdad, and Robert F. Worth from Washington.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Almost nine years after the first American tanks began massing on the Iraq border, the Pentagon declared an official end to its mission here, closing a troubled conflict that helped reshape American politics and left a bitter legacy of anti-American sentiment across the Muslim world.
As Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta marked the occasion with a speech in a fortified concrete courtyard at the Baghdad airport, helicopters hovered above, underscoring the challenges facing a country where insurgents continue to attack American soldiers and where militants with Al Qaeda still regularly carry out devastating attacks against civilians. 
''Let me be clear: Iraq will be tested in the days ahead -- by terrorism, and by those who would seek to divide, by economic and social issues, by the demands of democracy itself,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''Challenges remain, but the U.S. will be there to stand by the Iraqi people as they navigate those challenges to build a stronger and more prosperous nation.''
Those words sounded an uncertain trumpet for a war that was begun in 2003 to rid Iraq of weapons of mass destruction that proved illusory. The conflict was also cast as an effort to bring democracy to the Middle East -- another pretext that rang hollow during Iraq's worst sectarian bloodletting, and that hampered Washington's efforts in the past year to support the peaceful protesters of the Arab Spring.
The American withdrawal opens a new chapter for Iraq, a nation forged less than a century ago by British colonialists and tortured ever since by rebellions, wars and brutal dictatorship. Long a borderland between Persian and Arab empires, the country still struggles to balance the ambitions of Iran, the powerful theocratic neighbor whose nuclear program has become a profound concern to the United States and its allies.
For Americans, the ceremony on Thursday marked an uneasy moment of closure, with no clear sense of what has been won and lost. As of last Friday, the war had claimed 4,487 American lives, with 32,226 more Americans wounded in action, according to Pentagon statistics.
Those losses -- and the humiliating collapse of American claims about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction -- helped turn sentiment at home against the war, contributing to a crash in the popularity of President George W. Bush during his second term and to the election of Barack Obama, who opposed the invasion in 2003.
For the Pentagon, the Iraq war -- in combination with the continuing deployment in Afghanistan -- forced a painful rethinking of how to fight insurgencies and to interact with civilians. Under Gen. David H. Petraeus, American commanders learned valuable lessons in the Iraqi deserts of Anbar Province as they worked with local tribal leaders and turned the tide against Qaeda insurgents in 2007. Those lessons were later employed in Afghanistan.
But the broader effort to build institutions that can maintain rule of law amid Iraq's sectarian stresses has proved more challenging, both for the military and its civilian partners, said Anthony Cordesman, an analyst at the Center for Security and International Studies. As the Pentagon draws down its forces, the strains of a decade of war have underscored both the limits of an all-volunteer force and the critical need to train Iraqi (and Afghan) forces who can keep the peace.
Many American officers, fearing Iraq's instability, had hoped to leave a larger, more enduring military presence than the one allowed for under the agreement reached this year with the government in Baghdad.
Although Thursday's ceremony represented the official end of the war, the military still has two bases in Iraq and roughly 4,000 troops, including several hundred who attended the ceremony. At the height of the war in 2007, there were 505 bases and more than 170,000 troops.
Those troops that remain are still being attacked daily, mainly by artillery or mortar fire on the bases, and roadside bombs aimed at convoys heading south toward Kuwait.
Even after the last two bases are closed and the final American combat troops withdraw from Iraq by Dec. 31, a few hundred military personnel and Pentagon civilians will remain, working within the American Embassy as part of an Office of Security Cooperation to assist in arms sales and training to the Iraqis.
But negotiations could resume next year on whether additional American military personnel can return to assist their Iraqi counterparts further.
Iraq's military has critical weaknesses in a number of areas, from air defenses to basic logistical tasks like moving food and fuel and servicing the armored vehicles it is inheriting from the Americans and the jets it is buying. There are shortfalls in military engineers, artillery and intelligence.
''From a standpoint of being able to defend against an external threat, they have very limited to little capability, quite frankly,'' Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, the departing American commander in Iraq, said in an interview after the ceremony.
Although the American withdrawal has removed one central motive for the jihadis who flooded into Iraq after the invasion in 2003, Al Qaeda's Iraqi arm has carried out a number of spectacular bombings over the past year, and some intelligence analysts fear it is in resurgence.
Even in its twilight days, the American military here has suffered humiliating attacks that complicated the handover. In the spring, commanders stopped holding large base-closing ceremonies because insurgents were taking advantage of them to strike at troops.
''We were having ceremonies and announcing it publicly and having a little formal process, but a couple of days before the base was to close, we would start to receive significant indirect fire attacks on the location,'' said Col. Barry Johnson, a spokesman for the military in Iraq. ''We were suffering attacks, so we stopped.''
Since then, the closing of bases has been a quiet, closed-door meeting, where American and Iraqi military officials have signed documents that legally give the Iraqis control of the bases, exchanged handshakes and turned over keys.
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey of the Army, has served two command tours in Iraq since the invasion in 2003, and he noted during the ceremony that the next time he comes to Iraq he will have to be officially invited.
''We will stand with you against terrorists and others that threaten to undo what we have accomplished together,'' General Dempsey said during the end-of-mission ceremony. ''We will work with you to secure our common interests in a more peaceful and prosperous region.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United States military personnel during a departure ceremony on Thursday in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); IRAQ WAR (79%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); RELIGION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); HELICOPTERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



703 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Indexes End 3-Day Swoon On Upbeat Economic Data

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stock indexes snapped a three-day decline as data on jobless claims and manufacturing signaling a strengthening economy overshadowed concern over the European debt crisis.
Utilities, health care and consumer staples made the biggest gains out of 10 groups in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. FedEx jumped 8 percent after earnings, spurred by increased holiday orders, beat analysts' estimates. Novellus Systems surged 16 percent as Lam Research agreed to acquire it.
The S.& P. 500 rose 0.3 percent to 1,215.75, paring an earlier rally of 1.1 percent as oil declined and financial companies erased gains. The Dow Jones industrial average added 45.33 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,868.81. The Nasdaq composite index gained 1.7 points or 0.07 percent to close at 2541.01. 
The news in the United States was surprisingly positive and provided some counterbalance to uncertainty in Europe, said Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First Citizens BancShares, which is based in Raleigh, N.C. ''We're focusing increasingly on the domestic economy, which looks to be on the recovery track,'' he said.
The S.& P. 500 lost 3.5 percent in the first three business days this week after posting its first back-to-back weekly gain since October. It slumped on Dec. 13 after the Federal Reserve refrained from further action to bolster economic growth. The central bank said the American economy was maintaining its expansion even as the global economy slowed.
Global stocks extended gains after Labor Department figures showed that initial jobless claims fell by 19,000 to 366,000 last week, the fewest since May 2008. The median of 47 economists had projected 390,000, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Two reports showed that manufacturing in the New York and Philadelphia regions expanded more than forecast in December.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York's general economic index rose to the highest level in seven months, to 9.5 from 0.6 in November. Readings higher than zero signal expansion among companies in the region, which covers New York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's index, covering eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware, increased to 10.3 from 3.6.
Stock pared early gains after Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said in Washington that Europe's ''crisis is not only unfolding, but escalating'' and could not be resolved by one group of countries.
Kevin Caron, a market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Company, said, ''Investors are trying to get a sense of not only how the economy is performing but also looking at what happens with policy, what happens in Europe.''
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 2/32, to 100 26/32. The yield rose to 1.91 percent, from 1.90 percent late Wednesday.
Financial companies were unchanged as a group after rallying as much as 1.6 percent when Spain sold more debt than it had planned.
Michael Kors Holdings, the clothing company, rose 21 percent to $24.20 in its trading debut. The company, which was founded in 1981, sold 47.2 million shares on Wednesday for $20 apiece to raise $944 million, 19 percent more than planned.
Technology and energy companies in the S.& P. 500 posted the only declines among 10 groups, falling at least 0.2 percent.
First Solar, a maker of thin-film solar panels, slumped nearly 6 percent, the biggest drop in the S.& P. 500, to $31.45. The company was downgraded to neutral from outperform by Robert W. Baird & Company. Chevron slid 0.9 percent to $99.67, as the price of crude oil tumbled to its lowest level in six weeks.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); DEBT NOTES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (81%); STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO INC (61%); LAM RESEARCH CORP (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

TICKER: LRCX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



704 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Push on Health Care Appears at Odds With G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Shortly before the passage of President Obama's stimulus bill in 2009, Newt Gingrich's political committee put out a video of Mr. Gingrich denouncing it as a ''big politician, big bureaucracy, pork-laden bill.''
''It should be stopped,'' he said.
But at the same time, Mr. Gingrich was cheering a $19 billion part of the package that promoted the use of electronic health records, something that benefited clients of his consulting business. ''I am delighted that President Obama has picked this as a key part of the stimulus package,'' he told health care executives in a January 2009 conference call.
After the bill was passed a month later, Mr. Gingrich's consultancy, the Center for Health Transformation, joined two of its clients, Allscripts and Microsoft, in an ''Electronic Health Records Stimulus Tour'' that traveled the country, encouraging doctors and hospitals to buy their products with the billions in new federal subsidies. ''Get Engaged, Get Incentives,'' one promotion read. 
As Mr. Gingrich runs for president, he is working to appeal to Republican primary voters suspicious of big-government activism, especially in the realm of health care. But interviews and a review of records show how active Mr. Gingrich has been in promoting a series of recent programs that have given the government a bigger hand in the delivery of health care, and at the same time benefited his clients.
During the Bush administration, he was a leading Republican advocate for the costly expansion of Medicare, which many in his party now regret. And he and his center pushed some policies that are reflected in Mr. Obama's health care record -- a record Mr. Gingrich regularly criticizes on the campaign trail. All the while, his center functioned as a sort of high-priced club where companies joined him in working the corridors of power in Washington and in state capitals.
Mr. Gingrich did not respond to questions for this article. But a spokeswoman for the center said in an e-mail that Mr. Gingrich was a health care ''visionary'' who, for instance, supported electronic health records ''BEFORE it ever came up for discussion by the president or anyone else.''
Mr. Gingrich's chief Republican rival, Mitt Romney, has found himself on the defensive among conservatives for signing a universal health care law when he was governor of Massachusetts. But Mr. Gingrich has his own history with health care policy, part of which puts him at odds with many Republican voters.
Mr. Gingrich's ideas and the interests of his clients are often intertwined. When President George W. Bush and some Congressional Republicans were seeking to block renewal of the State Children's Health Insurance Program in 2007, Mr. Gingrich met with his former conservative House colleagues, arguing that inaction could unfairly harm children. At the time his center was being paid hundreds of thousands of dollars a year by major drug makers and insurers, groups that would have been harmed by a lapse in the program.
When he urged Republicans to support the Bush administration's expansion of Medicare's prescription drug benefit, he worked to ensure that it would cover new diabetes treatments sold by Novo Nordisk, a Danish drug company and a founding member of Mr. Gingrich's center.
More broadly, he has indicated his agreement with the most controversial aspect of President Obama's heath care plan, the requirement that every American buy health insurance. Although he now says he is opposed to the so-called individual mandate, in a May 2009 conference call -- previously unreported -- he told health care executives, ''We believe there should be must-carry; that is, everybody should have health insurance, or if you're an absolute libertarian, we would allow you to post a bond.''
Mr. Gingrich also worked with former Senator Tom Daschle, an early health policy adviser to Mr. Obama, to write a forward to the center's book on the expansion of electronic health records. ''It's fair to say he was supportive of the goals of health care reform,'' Mr. Daschle wrote in a brief e-mail exchange. ''And I felt that we were in agreement on some of the principles.''
Mr. Gingrich has defended his support for the prescription drug benefit, and other health care spending, by saying that present costs will be more than offset by future savings. And a spokeswoman for his company, the Center for Health Transformation, Susan Meyers, reiterated Mr. Gingrich's assertion that he does not lobby. But his dealings with Novo Nordisk show how his center's policy advocacy could blend with the narrower objectives of its paying members.
Separate from its $200,000-a-year charter membership in the center, Novo Nordisk, the world's largest producer of insulin, hired Mr. Gingrich to help ''position itself as a thought leader'' in an initiative to raise awareness of diabetes. A research document prepared in 2003 by the Gingrich Group, a consulting firm related to the health care center, noted that in improving treatment, the company wished to also emphasize insulin-delivery devices that ''offer better financial return for Novo.''
Mr. Gingrich's health center went on to help Novo Nordisk create a national diabetes campaign, and worked to shape government policies toward the disease. According to a presentation by a Gingrich aide to health care executives in 2004, the center was ''working to insure'' that Medicare covered insulin products manufactured by Novo Nordisk, and Mr. Gingrich planned to meet with members of Congress ''to help them develop priorities'' on fighting diabetes.
In its annual report to shareholders, Novo Nordisk listed its work with Mr. Gingrich under the category of public-policy activities, noting: ''Such activities are often referred to as lobbying.''
But a Novo Nordisk spokesman, Ken Inchausti, said Mr. Gingrich actually did no lobbying for the firm.
''He was providing us with guidance and strategic advice on how best we could inform policy makers,'' Mr. Inchausti said, adding that Mr. Gingrich had valuable insights because of his work on diabetes while in Congress.
The devices were ultimately covered. Dr. Mark McClellan, President Bush's administrator of Medicare and Medicaid Services at the time, said that he did not remember Mr. Gingrich specifically bringing up diabetes issues, but that he had various interactions with Mr. Gingrich.
''A lot of people including Newt had some views and some clients who cared about the issues that we were dealing with,'' he said. ''I do remember having a lot of discussions about what should and shouldn't be covered.''
Mr. Gingrich also worked with Dr. McClellan and other Bush administration health officials on electronic records.
''Newt and I had many conversations,'' said Dr. David J. Brailer, the Bush administration's national health technology coordinator. ''Because of Newt's involvement, you dealt with a significant amount of creativity -- they had a lot of creative ideas of how it could work and how it should work.''
Over the years, Mr. Gingrich accumulated more and more clients with an interest in building a national electronic health records system: Allscripts, Siemens, Microsoft and GE Healthcare.
Certainly, his belief in the importance of electronic health records fit with his futurist bent. Huge advances in technology, the argument goes, can enable doctors from different hospitals, different fields and even in different states to work off a single electronic file that would include every medical decision and diagnosis in a given patient's history. Mr. Gingrich was among leaders of both parties who argued that the technology would save lives and billions of dollars while also providing a huge database of results to judge the efficacy of treatments.
Mr. Gingrich found common cause with Hillary Rodham Clinton, then a senator from New York; Mr. Daschle, with whom he wrote the introduction to the center's book, ''Paper Kills 2.0''; and Senator Sheldon D. Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island.
Shortly before Mr. Obama's election in 2008, Mr. Whitehouse and Mr. Gingrich wrote an opinion article in The Washington Times calling for a national, electronic health information system. They also called for the creation of a ''comparative effectiveness institute'' that could use the network to ''collect and understand the best practices of the country's best providers of care.'' Such an institute, they wrote, ''could not only educate other providers on how to improve, but also inform policy makers on how to design policy that promotes these best practices.''
When President Obama proposed spending tens of billions on developing just such a system, Mr. Gingrich wrote in The New York Post in mid-January 2009, ''The president-elect should be applauded for making this vital priority a key part of his economic stimulus plan.''
Mr. Gingrich's chief health aide, David Merritt, was invited to testify before a Senate panel on privacy issues related to the creation of the system. During that testimony, Mr. Merritt told the senators, among them Mr. Whitehouse, that while protecting privacy was important, ''I think that as we move forward with comparative effectiveness and evidence-based medicine, we need as much data as possible.''
When the bill passed, providing more than $19 billion in incentives and grants to help health care providers buy electronic systems, the center and its health technology clients were in a celebratory mood. In presentations to investors, the Allscripts chief executive, Glen Tullman, called it ''the most expansive opportunity in our company's history,'' and ''more money coming into a segment than we've ever seen.''
In order for Allscripts and other health care systems makers to benefit from incentives and grants, they would need to make sure potential customers knew they were eligible for the cash. And so, joining with industry partners -- including another center client, Microsoft -- it embarked on an ''E.H.R. Stimulus Tour,'' visiting cities and providing Webcasts.
In one of the Webcasts, Mr. Merritt joined with Mr. Tullman and the Allscripts marketing chief to walk through the stimulus bill incentives.
When The Wall Street Journal editorial board, in January 2009, criticized the bill for creating a Federal Coordinating Council for Comparative Effectiveness Research, the center was there to defend it. The Journal argued that eventually ''the comparative effectiveness outfit will start to ration care to control costs.'' In a statement for the center, Mr. Merritt had said that while those fears were understandable, ''that argument is not currently justifiable in the specific language of the bill.''
The following August, however, the coordinating council came in for added scrutiny as conservative health care opponents rallied against its creation in angry town-hall-style meetings and online, playing into fears of ''death panels.''
Around the same, Mr. Gingrich reversed his call for a ''comparative effectiveness institute.''
''In our country, the road to dehumanizing, bureaucratic health care rationing,'' Mr. Gingrich wrote in Human Events, a conservative publication, that August, ''begins with something called comparative effectiveness research.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Newt Gingrich at a Tea Party event in April 2009, amid rising conservative anger over health care issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CHERNIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Allscripts, a Gingrich client, gave talks on how stimulus money helped its electronic health records business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLSCRIPTS-MISYS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS)
 Mr. Gingrich worked with Tom Daschle, a former senator, on expanding electronic health care records. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WTTG-FOX5) (A32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%); ALLSCRIPTS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); MDRX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



705 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: FedEx, Profit Rising, Credits Online Shopping

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
FedEx on Thursday reported a 76 percent increase in quarterly profit and said it was updating its fleet with 27 new fuel-efficient Boeing aircraft.
The company also said it was deferring delivery of some Boeing freighter aircraft, adjusting for slowing volume in Asia. 
FedEx expects continued moderate economic growth, with trade flows staying volatile, executives told analysts in a conference call after the company reported results on Thursday.
FedEx, driven by online holiday orders, delivered about 17 million packages on Dec. 12 -- twice the average daily shipments -- in what was its busiest day in its 40-year history.
The company reported fiscal second-quarter profit of $497 million, or $1.57 a share, up 76 percent from the $283 million, or 89 cents a share, reported a year ago. Analysts had been expecting a profit of $1.52 a share.
FedEx also affirmed its fiscal 2012 guidance for $6.25 to $6.75 a share, which it trimmed in September after tepid global economic growth and high fuel costs.
FedEx's chief executive, Frederick W. Smith, said that healthy growth in online shopping during the holiday season was increasing demand for residential delivery services.
Revenue rose 10 percent to $10.59 billion, from $9.63 billion a year ago. Analysts, on average, expected revenue to rise to $10.61 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
The huge volume of goods handled by FedEx makes its shipping trends a bellwether of consumer demand and the economic climate. The value of packages that it handles in its trucks and planes is equivalent to about 4 percent of the United States' gross domestic product and 1.5 percent of global G.D.P.
FedEx Express has signed an agreement with Boeing to buy 27 new 767-300F aircraft, replacing some that are more than 40 years old.
The company said the 767s would provide similar capacity as the MD-10s being retired, with about 30 percent more fuel efficiency and a minimum 20 percent reduction in unit operating costs.
FedEx Express is also delaying the delivery of 11 777F aircraft, reducing capital spending and adjusting to slowing volumes out of Asia.
Shares of FedEx climbed more than 6 percent on Thursday, closing at $83.47. U.P.S. rose over 1 percent to close at $71.55.
FedEx and U.P.S. are among transportation companies that have been able to pass through higher rates to customers, despite an uneven economic recovery.
FedEx this month said it would raise rates for FedEx Ground and FedEx Home Delivery in 2012 by a net 4.9 percent, on average, matching its 2011 increase. In September, FedEx Freight began a 6.75 percent general rate increase.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FedEx said it was updating with 27 fuel-efficient aircraft. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (79%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (95%); BOEING CO (92%); FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (67%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (95%); BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (95%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (95%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (95%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



706 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: By Choosing Arms Over Diplomacy, America Errs in Asia

BYLINE: By STEPHEN GLAIN. 
Stephen Glain is a journalist and the author of ''State vs. Defense: The Battle to Define America's Empire.''

 BODY:
Washington
HAWKS on both sides of the Pacific greeted the Obama administration's decision last month to fortify, rather than throttle back, America's vast influence in East Asia as a defining moment in a looming confrontation between the United States and China. In the rush to militarize the world's most important bilateral relationship, however, two questions have not been answered: Are the disputes that roil Asia more effectively resolved through armed might or diplomacy? If the answer is diplomacy, where is American statecraft when it is needed?
With the economy in disarray, President Obama chose a costly instrument in deciding to expand the American military commitment in Asia by deploying a Marine contingent to Australia; the move will only help insulate the Pentagon from meaningful spending cuts and preserve the leading role the military has played in foreign policy since the 9/11 attacks. 
In looking to the military, Mr. Obama was embellishing an old policy course. For more than a century, the Pacific rim of Asia has seen a number of unnecessary American wars and interventions, beginning with Washington's imperial thrust through Guam and the Philippines, its role in suppressing the Boxer Rebellion in China, and its 40-year-long Open Door policy (a demand that trading rights in Chinese coastal cities be shared among industrial nations that had sought zones of influence). In 1949, after Communist forces prevailed in China's civil war, President Harry S. Truman chose not to engage the new People's Republic but to contain it alongside the Soviet empire -- with which Mao Zedong soon aligned, earlier entreaties to Washington having been rebuffed.
Having dismissed a diplomatic opening along with advice from some of his own China experts, Truman militarized Sino-American relations on China's borders by extending aid to the French in Indochina and then by endeavoring, disastrously, to reunite the Korean Peninsula by force, in response to North Korea's effort to do the same by invading its southern neighbor. The agonizing stalemate that followed foreshadowed America's doomed intervention in Vietnam.
Mr. Obama, like his predecessors, seems now to be embracing a militarized policy with regard to China, the sinew of which is a global network of military bases that has changed little since the peak of the cold war. Far from reducing its profile in Asia, the Pentagon has been quietly enhancing or reconfiguring its capacity there in recent decades. For example, it has been building up forces on the United States territory of Guam, a far-reaching strategic enclave in the Pacific much like the British island of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. Pentagon strategists say the aim is to ''dissuade, deter and defeat'' regional aggressors. And in recent months, the Defense Department has been developing a strategy for Asia called ''AirSea Battle,'' an instrument with which American military power can address ''asymmetrical threats in the Western Pacific,'' an implicit reference to China.
Washington justifies its Pacific buildup by citing China's increasingly menacing claims on the region's contested waterways. But there has been no serious American-led effort to resolve such disputes through bilateral or multilateral diplomatic rounds.
Indeed, America's top diplomat has become the chief civilian advocate for military answers to diplomatic challenges. Speaking in Honolulu last month, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton called for ''a more broadly distributed military presence'' in Asia. While in Manila, she appeared on an American warship and reaffirmed the nearly 60-year-old security pact between the United States and the Philippines. She also has endorsed the creation of an American-led regional trade pact that pointedly excludes China for the present, a remarkably petty snub compared to the way her legendary predecessor George C. Marshall offered (without success, in the face of Stalin's suspicions) to include the Soviet Union in the postwar reconstruction plan that now bears Marshall's name. And this month she visited Myanmar, where the Obama administration has assiduously worked to neutralize a corrupt and repressive government in favor of democratic reform; in the grander strategic game, this, too, could be read in Beijing as a tactic to weave the country -- which has been Beijing's ally -- into an American noose around China.
Since the end of the cold war, senior diplomats and general officers have coalesced in support of a central military role in the formulation and execution of foreign affairs. This role is a consequence of the growing imbalance between America's diplomatic and military resources, and it shaped lamentably militarized responses to the Balkan crisis of the 1990s, the 9/11 attacks, the reconstitution of Iraq and now the rise of China. Mrs. Clinton may declare herself, as she did in an October article in Foreign Policy and again in Honolulu, to be for ''a substantially increased investment -- diplomatic, economic, strategic and otherwise'' in the Asia-Pacific region, but this ignores the fact that the country's diplomatic capacity has been cruelly cut back over the last two decades, particularly in relation to the Pentagon's.
In fact, the Pentagon can be expected to keep outspending the State Department at an enormous rate -- even in the unlikely event that Congress musters the courage to impose draconian budget cuts, as the law requires, in the wake of the deficit-reduction super committee's collapse. Currently, Washington is allocating about a dozen dollars for defense outlays for every dollar it spends on diplomacy and international assistance. In Honolulu, Mrs. Clinton also celebrated the ''opportunities and obligations'' in Asia that are ripe for exploration after the immense expenditure of American blood and coin in Iraq and Afghanistan. That recalls the way the country's policy making elite saw fresh dangers as well as opportunities in Asia after America's withdrawal from Vietnam -- an earlier example of Washington's cyclical preoccupation with perceived threats from one end of the Eastern Hemisphere to the other.
So long as Congress insists on lavishing funds on the Pentagon at the State Department's expense, there will be no shortage of perceived monsters to hem in or destroy. Witness the new species taking form in Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CIVIL WAR (74%); US TERRITORIES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (98%); CHINA (96%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); GUAM (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); BRITISH INDIAN OCEAN TERRITORY (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



707 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Disagreement Emerges Over Impact of Payroll Tax Cut on Social Security

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For all of the partisan brawling over President Obama's call to extend a temporary payroll tax cut for 160 million Americans, one concern is bipartisan: a significant minority of Democrats and Republicans say that cutting the taxes that finance Social Security benefits will further undermine the program.
The Obama administration, many budget experts (but not all) and the chief actuary for the Social Security Administration say the proposal will do no such thing. But some conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats who agree on little else are just as adamant that it will. 
Both parties predict the payroll tax cut will be extended beyond its Dec. 31 expiration, though the question of how -- or whether -- to pay for it and some other unrelated issues in the year-end legislation continued to hold it up on Wednesday. Still, the disagreement over the tax cut lingers. It is less over money than philosophy, and reflects a debate as old as the 75-year-old program about Social Security's fundamental structure.
Critics predict that one extension will lead to another as politicians balk at raising taxes to their former level, especially if unemployment remains high.
''Imagine that next December the unemployment rate is 8 percent and a year later it's 7.4 percent,'' said Robert Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, who is one of two public trustees for Social Security. ''We'll still be trying to stimulate employment and terminating the payroll tax holiday will be a big hit on most families, one that will hurt job growth.''
Democrats fear that repeated extensions would disrupt the link that President Franklin Delano Roosevelt forged to lock in support for Social Security: with workers taxed for their benefits, politicians would not cut them. And Republicans object that transferring general revenues to Social Security to offset the tax cut makes the program more like welfare, and worsens the federal budget deficit.
Politics aside, the bottom line is that a temporary tax cut is inconsequential to Social Security's long-term health, from an accounting perspective. The threat remains the financial pressure of an aging population.
Social Security is essentially a pay-as-you-go system, with payroll taxes from workers flowing back out to retirees, survivors and the disabled. Last year, before the tax cut, the system for the first time since 1983 collected less in taxes than it paid out to 55 million beneficiaries -- $49 billion less.
The program's operating deficits will grow as more of the 78 million baby boomers become eligible. But trust fund reserves built up over years of annual surpluses will not run out until 2036, when tax revenues will cover three-quarters of benefits, trustees project.
That projection would be unchanged by Mr. Obama's proposal to extend and expand the payroll tax relief that he and Congressional Republicans agreed to a year ago to spur the economy, because they also agreed to transfer general revenues to Social Security to make up the difference.
The trust fund ''would be unaffected by enactment of this provision,'' Stephen C. Goss, the chief actuary for Social Security Administration, wrote to administration officials -- just as he had about the tax bill a year ago.
The 12.4 percent payroll tax is split between employees and employers, and the current break reduces workers' share by 2 percentage points, to 4.2 percent. Because that reduces Social Security revenues this year by about $105 billion, the program is credited with that amount from general revenues. And workers get credit for the full tax for purposes of calculating their future benefits.
This fall, with the economy still fragile, Mr. Obama proposed as part of his $447 billion job-creation plan to extend the tax cut for 2012, increase it to 3.1 percentage points and expand it to employers for their first $5 million of payroll -- in effect cutting the tax in half for employees and most employers.
His proposal, which was more popular with Mr. Obama's political advisers than with Treasury officials, would have reduced Social Security revenues by $240 billion next year. Democrats recently limited their proposal to employees and the self-employed, cutting its cost to $185 billion given complaints from liberals and conservatives.
Last December liberal lawmakers, conservatives and advocates for the elderly mostly went along with the tax cut since it was intended for a year only. But when the White House began talking of an extension months ago, after economists predicted that economic growth would slow half a percentage point without the tax cut, opponents in both parties mobilized.
Sixty-one liberals in the House, nearly one-third of the Democrats there, wrote to Mr. Obama in July to say they were ''gravely concerned that yet another, unacceptable cut to Social Security's revenue stream appears to be on the table.''
Citing the Bush-era tax cuts that were supposed to end in 2010, they expressed fear that the payroll tax cut would become permanent as politicians shied from letting them lapse. Mindful of some Republicans' goal of privatizing Social Security, the Democrats suggested that tinkering with the payroll tax ''may be used as the first step in a larger battle to fundamentally dismantle Social Security.''
Six years ago, Democrats successfully derailed President George W. Bush's plan to partially privatize Social Security by letting workers divert 2 percentage points of their payroll taxes to personal retirement accounts.
Charles Blahous, Mr. Bush's adviser on the issue, recently wrote that the payroll tax cut and the extension that Mr. Obama initially proposed would reduce revenues to Social Security more over two years than Mr. Bush's plan would have over its first decade. The Bush plan, however, also would have reduced workers' future benefits commensurate with the taxes they diverted to personal accounts -- a feature that helped defeat the proposal.
Mr. Blahous, now one of two public trustees for Social Security, said in his analysis that the payroll tax cut ''would take a major step toward transforming Social Security from what it has long been -- an earned benefit, funded by separate worker payroll taxes -- into an income-tax based system more akin to welfare.''
That is not the worry of the other public trustee, Mr. Reischauer.
''The nightmare that I have is that when it comes time to raise the tax back up to 6.2 percent, conservatives are going to propose that these two percentage points of payroll tax be devoted to individual accounts.'' Mr. Reischauer said. ''That will precipitate a huge fight and could change Social Security in a fundamental way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Reischauer, a public trustee for Social Security. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Accounting for Social Security: Social Security is a pay-as-you-go program financed by payroll taxes on workers and employers. When its revenues fall short of the benefits it owes in a given year, it covers ayments by drawing on a $2.6 trillion fund that is accounted for separately from the federal budget and invested in government bonds. It is estimated that unless changes are made to the system, the fund will be able to pay full benefits until the surplus is exhausted in 2036, and about three quarters of benefits after that. (Source: Social Security Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); AGING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); BABY BOOMERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



708 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Stop U.S. Drone Flights, Iran Warns Afghanistan

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran escalated its confrontation with the United States on Thursday over the captured American spy drone launched from Afghanistan, warning the Afghan government to order a halt to such surveillance flights.
Any further flights would be regarded as a hostile act, the Iranian foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, said in an interview with Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency. His warning threatened to drag Afghanistan directly into the dispute over American aerial surveillance of Iran.
There was no immediate response from the United States or Afghanistan to Mr. Salehi's admonition. But Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, visiting with Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, in Kabul on Wednesday, said that surveillance flights over Iran would continue despite the loss of the drone. Mr. Karzai was more circumspect, saying Afghanistan wanted ''the best of relations'' with all its neighbors. 
Iran has said it captured the drone -- a sophisticated, batwinged RQ-170 model with radar-evading features -- by way of an electronic attack on the aircraft's navigation system as it hovered over northern Iran on Dec. 4, causing it to land without damage.
The drone was operated remotely by C.I.A. controllers in Afghanistan, in what American officials have acknowledged was part of a stepped-up effort to monitor suspected Iranian nuclear sites. The officials have dismissed Iran's explanation of how it came into possession of the aircraft as propaganda, and contend that it was lost through an unspecified technical malfunction. But they have offered no further details on what went wrong.
''We have called on the Afghan government to seriously pursue the case, and under no circumstances to let such events happen again, as such events will be regarded as unfriendly,'' Mr. Salehi said. He called the drone flight a ''hostile and aggressive act.''
Last week, Iranian television showed images of what it said was the captured drone, apparently intact, and called it an intelligence windfall that Iranian experts would reverse engineer.
Iranian officials reacted with outrage and incredulity after President Obama said Monday that the United States had asked Iran to return the drone. ''That is a shameless demand raised by the U.S. president,'' Brig. Gen. Mohammad Hejazi, the deputy chief of staff of the Iranian military, was quoted by the semiofficial Fars News agency as saying. ''They raise such claims instead of apologizing to our Islamic establishment and people.''
The increased covert American intelligence operations reflect suspicions in the West and in Israel that the Iranian military is secretly working on a nuclear weapon, despite Iran's denials. The concerns grew last month with the release of an incriminating report about questionable aspects of Iran's nuclear program by the International Atomic Energy Agency, the proliferation monitor of the United Nations.
The United States and European Union have tightened economic sanctions against Iran since then, and Congress is close to approving legislation that could severely penalize any foreign institution that does business with Iran's central bank. That could strangle Iran's oil sales by scaring off customers that do not want to risk retaliation from the United States. Oil exports account for most of Iran's earnings abroad.
The impact of that legislation has particularly rattled Japan and South Korea, which are major buyers of Iranian oil. Japan's Nikkei business daily reported Wednesday that the Japanese were lobbying American officials to exempt Japan should that legislation become law. News reports from South Korea on Thursday said government officials there were doing the same.
The Obama administration, which had urged Congress to make the legislation more flexible for fear that it would drive up oil prices and alienate American allies, essentially acknowledged on Thursday that the measure would become law. Victoria Nuland, a State Department spokeswoman, told reporters at a regular briefing in Washington that administration officials would work on ways to apply it ''in a manner that affects Iran but also protects the legitimate interests of America's friends and allies around the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (72%); RELIGION (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (67%); AIRCRAFT COMMUNICATION & NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (73%); LEON E PANETTA (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



709 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SCHOOLBOOK; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Obesity Rate Dips for City Students, Offering Glint of Hope on Decades-Old Problem

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
3:23 p.m. Updated The number of obese New York City schoolchildren fell by 5.5 percent over five years, federal and city officials said Thursday, offering a glimmer of optimism about one of the country's intractable health scourges.
The decline, documented by annual fitness exams given to most of the city's kindergarten through eighth-grade students, was the biggest reported by any large city. Over all, the rate of obesity dropped in New York City to 207 children per 1,000 in the 2010-11 school year, down from 219 five years earlier, meaning that 20.7 percent were still considered obese. 
''This comes after decades of relentless increases,'' Dr. Thomas A. Farley, the city's health commissioner, said Thursday. While the 5.5 percent drop may seem slight, he said, ''What's impressive is the fact that it's falling at all.''
The results, published Thursday in a report by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, showed that the declines in obesity were sharply higher among middle-class children than among poor children. They were also higher among white and Asian children compared with black and Hispanic children, and among very young children -- those entering kindergarten or first grade -- compared with older children.
Still, the drops held up to some extent across all grades, races and economic levels.
''Because of coordinated, sustained action I am happy to say our children are benefiting from our campaign against obesity, which has plagued communities here in New York and across the nation for nearly three decades,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said.
Mr. Bloomberg said the 5.5 percent drop translated into roughly 6,500 fewer obese children in the public schools. He said that an overwhelming majority of parents think their children are fit and at a healthy weight, but that ''the facts tell a different story.''
Dr. Farley attributed the progress partly to the city's aggressive advertising campaign against sugary sodas, which he said may have altered what parents were providing to their children. The city has also tried to add healthier options to school lunch menus, enacted strict rules on the calorie and sugar content of snacks and drinks in school vending machines, and even put limits on bake sales, a move that caused some grumbling.
Buoyed by the results, city officials also announced Thursday that the restrictions on school vending machines were being expanded to machines in all city buildings, and that they were forming a multiagency task force to recommend further initiatives to combat obesity. Dr. Farley also noted that salad bars were now in cafeterias at many schools, including Public School 218, near Yankee Stadium, where the mayor and the commissioner announced the results at a news conference.
Across the country, recent studies have shown childhood obesity rates remaining flat or slightly increasing. Los Angeles County, which has also conducted a campaign against sugary drinks, had a decline of 2.5 percent during the same period, according to a study by the U.C.L.A. Center for Health Policy Research and the California Center for Public Health Advocacy.
The study was cautious in its language, warning, ''A causal relationship cannot be inferred between the fitness interventions implemented by New York City in schools and the decrease in prevalence of child obesity described in this report.'' But it said the decreases in obesity ''might'' indicate that changes in the school or home environment were important.
Obesity experts said that given the stubbornness of the problem, even a small reduction in obesity was an affirmation of public health initiatives.
''We've seen nothing but bad news for the last 10 years,'' said Marlene Schwartz, deputy director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University. ''I feel like that's finally starting to turn around.'' Dr. Schwartz said younger children, who respond better to adult direction, and children in more affluent families, which have the resources to change, were the easiest to reach, so it was not surprising that they improved the most.
Dr. Farley said the fact that obesity had declined more among younger children was not surprising because it is easier to prevent weight gain than to lose weight. The city has trained 4,000 elementary school teachers to provide in-class physical activity breaks, the study said, and has tried to limit video and TV time in child care programs.
The decline in obesity was documented by the city in FitnessGrams, annual physical education tests that are now completed by most of the city's kindergarten through eighth-grade students.
Adult men and women are considered obese if their body mass index is 30 or higher, but children are calculated differently because of their constant physical changes. A 7-year-old boy, for example, who is 3-foot-9 would be considered obese with a body mass index of 19.4, or a weight of 56 pounds. A 12-year-old girl who is 5-foot-2 is considered obese with an index of 25.2, a weight of 138 pounds.
By age group, the decline was highest among 5- and 6-year-olds, at 9.9 percent. By race, the drop was highest among white children, at 12.5 percent, and Asian children, at 7.6 percent, and lower for Hispanic children, at 3.4 percent, and black children, at 1.9 percent.
Anemona Hartocollis covers health issues in New York City for The New York Times.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at the salad bar Thursday behind Jonathan Chavez, a third grader at Public School 218, near Yankee Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (92%); CHILDREN (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PARENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); SOFT DRINKS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



710 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: The Ad War: Perry's Double-Barreled Attack

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL JR.

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- With less than three weeks before the Iowa caucuses, Rick Perry is firing his toughest volley yet at Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich, the front-runners in many national polls, with a new commercial that seeks to paint them as ''political insiders.'' 
The ad cites Mr. Gingrich's support for raising the federal debt ceiling while he was speaker of the House and Mr. Romney's raising taxes on business while he was governor of Massachusetts.
Notably absent from the commercial, part of Mr. Perry's multimillion-dollar ad blitz in Iowa, is any mention of the man who has moved into second place in this state according to several polls: Representative Ron Paul of Texas.
In the commercial, the narrator says: ''Reckless spending and high taxes are destroying our economy. The problem? Political insiders. Newt Gingrich supported increasing the federal debt ceiling one trillion dollars and billions in new earmarks. Mitt Romney raised business taxes 20 percent in Massachusetts. Gingrich and Romney. Insiders.''
As the narrator speaks, the screen shows pictures of Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich, including one in which they appear to be laughing together. Then the screen shows Mr. Perry touring a home construction site and talking with workers while the narrator says, ''Rick Perry's plans to create jobs and overhaul Washington with a part-time Congress make him the outsider political insiders fear most.''
The Texas governor's only line is: ''I'm Rick Perry, and I approve this message.''
While the commercial appears to be Mr. Perry's toughest attack yet on the two men, it remains to be seen whether it will bolster the fortunes of Mr. Perry, the onetime front-runner who in most polls has sunk to the single digits.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); JOB CREATION (65%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (91%); RICK PERRY (90%); RON PAUL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



711 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Making Claims About the Debt, but Somewhat at Odds With the Math

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM, SCOTT SHANE and TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
Mitt Romney said that under President Obama, the United States had ''racked up as much debt as almost all of the other presidents combined.''
But the numbers don't work. The national debt stood at $10.626 trillion on the day Mr. Obama took office. It now stands slightly above $15 trillion.
Mr. Romney has made this claim before and, when asked to defend it, his campaign has said that he is referring to a subset of the nation's total debt -- the portion of the debt that is owed to private investors. This excludes the portion of the debt borrowed from government funds, like Social Security. 
But those numbers don't work either. The debt held by private investors stood at $6.307 trillion on the day Mr. Obama took office. Today it stands at $10.393 trillion.
Of course, Mr. Romney said ''almost'' and that means the statement is not actually false. The numbers work fine if one excludes the presidency of George W. Bush.
Mr. Romney has also sometimes made a slightly different claim that also may prove true: He has said the debt will have doubled by the time Mr. Obama leaves office.
Iran and the Bomb
In one of the most contentious points of Thursday night's debate, Representatives Michele Bachmann and Ron Paul clashed over one of the most important foreign policy issues the next president will face: the possibility that Iran will build a nuclear weapon.
Mr. Paul suggested that the International Atomic Energy Agency, part of the United Nations, had said there was ''no U.N. evidence'' that Iran was within a year of building a nuclear weapon.
Mrs. Bachmann asserted that the atomic agency had said ''literally Iran is within just months of being able to obtain that weapon,'' adding of Mr. Paul's statement that ''nothing could be more dangerous than the comments that we just heard.''
In fact, while the agency's long-awaited report cited ''credible'' evidence that Iran had carried out ''activities relevant to the development of a nuclear device,'' it did not say a weapon was months away. SCOTT SHANE
Taking Credit
Newt Gingrich has made a campaign theme out of how the economy improved when he was last in office, as speaker of the House in the 1990s. In his first answer, challenged about his conservative credentials, Mr. Gingrich said he was responsible for four consecutive balanced budgets and paid down $400 billion in the national debt.
But in only two years when he was speaker was the budget balanced, in the 1998 and 1999 fiscal years. Although the government remained in the black for two more years, Mr. Gingrich left office in January 1999 and had no role in those later budgets. The total surplus when he was speaker was $194.9 billion, not $400 billion.
And it takes two to tango -- Mr. Gingrich did not mention that these years of government surpluses were a result of policies that fostered an economic boom, many worked out with President Bill Clinton. Mr. Gingrich opposed a 1993 tax increase that was widely credited with helping to begin reducing the deficit. TRIP GABRIEL
On Drone Retrieval
At one point, Mr. Romney accused Mr. Obama of having said ''pretty please'' to Iran to return an American stealth drone that malfunctioned and landed on Iranian territory, and Rick Perry said a better choice would have been to destroy or retrieve the high-tech American aircraft to keep from revealing American technological secrets.
In fact, American military officials considered an operation to retrieve the drone but rejected it as too dangerous, since it would have required a sizeable force traveling more than 200 miles into the country and most likely facing a large Iranian protection force.
Mr. Obama did say of the drone at a news conference that ''we have asked for it back,'' but suggested he did not expect that would happen. Iran mocked the request. SCOTT SHANE
Lending Support
In the debate, Mrs. Bachmann described the mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as ''the epicenter of the mortgage financial meltdown'' and called for the companies to be shut down.
Fannie and Freddie provide money for mortgage lending by buying loans from banks and other lenders, then packaging those loans into securities for sale to investors. Crucially, they guarantee that investors will not lose money if borrowers fail to repay the loans.
That has proved an expensive guarantee. The companies ran out of money in 2008 and the government was forced to take control. So far the bailout has cost taxpayers more than $150 billion.
But the companies also now provide financing for about two-thirds of new mortgage loans. And while private investors might be willing to take their place, it is not likely that the private market would offer the same generous terms that Americans have come to expect.
In particular, it might become very difficult to get a 30-year loan with a fixed interest rate -- a product that has been broadly available only because of government support. BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); RON PAUL (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



712 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Times Chief Is to Retire At Year-End

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK; David Carr contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Janet L. Robinson, who served as chief executive of The New York Times Company during a time of rapid change and uncertainty in the newspaper industry, will step down at the end of the month, the company announced Thursday.
''It is with mixed emotions that I write to let you know that I am retiring from The New York Times Company,'' Ms. Robinson, who has held the post since 2004, wrote in an e-mail to the staff.
The announcement caught many by surprise -- both inside and outside the company. Like other newspaper companies, The Times has weathered a wrenching few years because of the recession and because of the continuing migration of advertisers and consumers online. 
While the company has struggled financially, The New York Times newspaper has been particularly aggressive under Ms. Robinson's leadership in creating new digital products and has recently built an online subscription model that has performed much better than anticipated. Ms. Robinson is widely credited with a previous transformation at the company: remaking The Times as a national newspaper in the 1990s.
''I'm very surprised, particularly with the timing of the pay wall going so well,'' said Craig Huber, an equity research analyst at Access 342, an independent research shop in New Canaan, Conn.
The Times Company said that it would begin an internal and external search to find a new chief executive. In the interim, the chairman of the Times Company and the publisher of The Times, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., will serve as chief executive, he wrote in an e-mail to staff members. Ms. Robinson will serve as a consultant for one year, and will make $4.5 million, according to the company's filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As the company, which is anchored by The New York Times, The Boston Globe and The International Herald Tribune, places an increased reliance on digital revenue, both from consumers and Web advertising, the Times Company may be looking for a replacement with strong digital credentials, analysts said.
''I would assume that given the importance of digital and how much more significant that revenue is that they'd look in the digital arena to replace Janet,'' said Alexia S. Quadrani, a media analyst at JPMorgan Chase.
Last Friday, Mr. Sulzberger called a meeting with Ms. Robinson on the 15th floor of the company's Manhattan headquarters. He raised the issue of installing a different type of leadership at the company, according to people familiar with the meeting who declined to be identified discussing confidential company business.
Both Ms. Robinson and Mr. Sulzberger declined to comment.
Several analysts criticized the timing of Ms. Robinson's departure, as she leaves with no obvious successor. ''You have to give them a demerit for not having a succession plan in place,'' said Alan D. Mutter, a journalism lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley and a former newspaper editor.
Last month, Martin A. Nisenholtz, a senior vice president who helped shaped The Times's Web strategy from its infancy, said that he was retiring at the end of the year.
Ms. Robinson, 61, a former elementary school teacher, has worked at the Times Company for 28 years, her rise to prominence partly attributable to her close ties to Madison Avenue. Colleagues described her as cautious by nature and direct.
As chief operating officer, and, before that, as senior vice president for newspaper operations, she helped improve advertising revenue and prompted the company to expand distribution of The New York Times into markets outside the city.
Mr. Sulzberger wrote in his e-mail: ''With Janet's vision and input, we were able to convince the then corporate management to make the investment necessary and began to reposition The Times as a truly national newspaper -- one that now has 58 percent of weekday and 62 percent of Sunday subscribers located outside of the New York market.''
The company faced financial problems caused by the 2008 economic crisis and the changing ways customers find the news. During Ms. Robinson's tenure, the share price declined to less than $8 from the mid-s$30. The closing price Thursday was $7.53.
In 2009, a difficult year in the industry, Ms. Robinson was paid $4.9 million, 26 percent more than a year earlier, and her compensation rose to $5.3 million in 2010. In those years, Mr. Sulzberger made $4.8 million and $6 million, respectively. The Times Company spokesman, Robert H. Christie, said the increases were largely because in previous years both executives had agreed to scale back their pay.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet L. Robinson has worked at The Times for 28 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BACHRACH) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (97%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (97%); JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (97%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%)

PERSON: JANET L ROBINSON (91%); ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



713 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Kinder's Major Bet On a Boom In Drilling

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- The oil and gas business is full of gamblers who drill deep and often, praying for gushers but frequently ending up with dry holes.
Then there is Richard D. Kinder, chief executive of Kinder Morgan, who has personally made billions of dollars operating the industry's equivalent of a toll road: pipelines.
Now, with Kinder Morgan's $21 billion deal to buy a leading rival, the El Paso Corporation, he is doubling down.
Hydraulic fracturing techniques -- despite causing a growing controversy -- are creating a once-in-a-generation boom in oil and gas drilling in the United States, and the opportunity to build many more pipelines to carry new supplies to market. 
Public concerns about the environmental risks posed by hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, raise the possibility of tough new restrictions, higher costs and even outright bans on new wells in some areas. But companies like Kinder Morgan and its competitors think the need for new energy sources means pipelines are a relatively low-risk way to play the boom.
If they are right, Kinder Morgan will collect new tolls for decades, along with the ones it is already pocketing.
The nation's 450,000 miles of transport pipelines provide a steady flow of profits, and big players like Kinder Morgan are geographically diversified, diluting the impact of a drilling slowdown in any one region. Transmission rates are set by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and do not vary with fluctuating oil and gas prices. A special federal tax break unavailable to most industries bolsters investors' returns. And before a single mile of a new pipeline is built, the operator typically lines up contracts with oil and gas companies that commit them to use it, guaranteeing revenue in advance.
Fed by such advantages, Kinder Morgan's pipeline partnership yielded investors a 17.7 percent compound annual return from 2007 to 2010, compared with 3.5 percent for an index of large integrated oil companies, says IHS Herold, a consulting firm.
''Kinder has made a low-return, humdrum business into a river of money,'' said Robin West, chief executive of the consulting firm PFC Energy. ''The North American energy scene is being transformed, and this company reflects the colossal scale of the emerging industry.''
Kinder Morgan's proposed purchase of El Paso, announced in October, is so big that it faces months of antitrust scrutiny. The deal would create the largest pipeline owner in the country, with 80,000 miles of pipelines crossing 35 states and linking new oil and gas fields from Texas to Pennsylvania to most major markets. Although regulators would still set transport prices, the company would have more power to direct what flows through its pipes and where.
''By restricting supplies or not expanding pipelines in the future, they are potentially going to keep natural gas from going to consumer markets where gas is needed, and that could impact prices indirectly,'' said Ed Hirs, an economist at the University of Houston.
Analysts say antitrust regulators may require Kinder to divest itself of some pipelines, particularly in and around Colorado, though most expect the deal to be approved eventually.
Mr. Kinder and other Kinder officials declined interview requests. But Larry S. Pierce, a company vice president, denied in an e-mail that his company would restrict gas flows. ''Pipelines make money by providing transportation service, not by deciding where the gas goes,'' he said.
The increased scale would certainly put Kinder Morgan in a prime position to benefit from a coming wave of pipeline construction. Thousands of miles of new pipelines will be needed to serve wells in fast-growing shale fields like the Bakken in North Dakota, the Eagle Ford in south Texas and the Niobrara in Colorado. In some states, pipeline capacity is so scarce that much of the natural gas coming from wells is simply burned as waste.
All told, spending on new pipelines in the United States could reach more than $200 billion by 2035 (in 2010 dollars), according to the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America Foundation.
''Rich Kinder likes to identify tsunamis,'' said Yves Siegel, a senior energy analyst at Credit Suisse, ''and this is a tsunami that he believes in.''
If the El Paso deal was approved, analysts say, other big pipeline companies, like Williams Partners and Oneok, would need to scramble to keep up with the supersize Kinder Morgan, which would have easier access to capital and a far larger cash stream to buy or build the new networks.
In acquiring El Paso, Kinder Morgan gets pipelines that are likely to deliver growing cash flows. El Paso's 14,000-mile Tennessee Gas Pipeline, which stretches from the Gulf of Mexico to Canada, cuts directly through the Marcellus shale field in Pennsylvania, where hundreds of gas wells have been drilled but not yet hooked up to a pipeline. Kinder would also acquire pipelines from West Texas to California that promise future growth as Southwestern states retire aging nuclear power plants in favor of gas-fired electrical generation.
Still, Kinder Morgan knows all too well that unexpected developments can upset the best of plans. When it began building the Rockies Express pipeline several years ago to connect isolated Colorado gas fields with eastern markets, it looked like a sure bet. But with the upsurge of gas production in the Marcellus shale field, demand for western gas had slipped by the time the pipeline was ready in 2009. (The El Paso deal would improve the value of that investment by allowing Kinder to synchronize pipelines owned by the two companies to redirect some Rocky Mountain gas to the Midwest, energy experts say.)
After a string of pipeline accidents in recent years, Congress is expected to pass a bill to tighten safety regulations and double the maximum fine for negligent behavior by pipeline operators to $2 million. Kinder Morgan talks up its safety record, but it has had its share of violations and accidents over the last decade. The company this year has been assessed $573,400 in proposed penalties from the federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration for violations, although the company noted that the penalties were for terminal, not pipeline, infractions.
''As they get far bigger, how are they going to assure the public's safety when they seem to have trouble handling the infrastructure they already have?'' said Frank J. Gallagher, editor of NaturalGasWatch.org, who is a critic of the expansion of the natural gas industry.
Environmentalists and advocates of renewable energy also say the pipeline industry gets an unfair advantage because of the estimated $2 billion a year in federal tax breaks it receives through use of a corporate structure known as the master limited partnership.
Although Mr. Kinder didn't invent the tax break, he has been a pioneer in using it. Mr. Kinder co-founded Kinder Morgan in 1997, after he had a falling out with Enron's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, and bought Enron's small pipeline business for $40 million with another Enron colleague. From that perch, Mr. Kinder, a lawyer by background, used the partnership structure to assemble a pipeline network. He owns more than a third of the company.
Master limited partnerships trade on financial markets like stocks, but they are taxed as partnerships. That means the companies do not pay income taxes but instead pass through a share of profits and losses to the owners of the units, who then pay individual income taxes.
The structure has allowed Kinder Morgan and other pipeline companies to secure capital at a lower cost than normal corporations because they can offer investors higher after-tax returns.
In the late 1980s, Congress tightened regulations on such partnerships out of concern that many corporations would turn to them to avoid corporate income taxes. But it carved out an exception for the energy industry, which lobbied hard on the issue. The number of these partnerships in the energy industry has increased to 72 in 2010 from six in 1994, according to the Congressional Research Service.
Annual rates of return on pipelines are generally around 7 percent, hardly spectacular in the oil business. But pipelines often pay for themselves in 10 years or so, and they can produce revenue for decades after that.
''You can go to the movies and be making money,'' said Mark Routt, a senior consultant at KBC Advanced Technologies. ''You just sell the pipeline capacity over and over again.''
But Nathanael Greene, director of renewable energy policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the industry was so profitable that Congress should either repeal the tax break or allow renewable projects like solar and wind to use the partnership structure, too.
Right now, he said, Congress is ''picking winners in the worst sort of way because not only does it make things uneven now but locks in that advantage in a pipeline that lasts for decades.''
Mr. Pierce, the Kinder Morgan executive, defended the partnership structure as a useful policy tool to help build pipelines.
''Congress has made a conscious decision that the benefits of incremental energy infrastructure outweigh the slight decrease in federal revenue,'' he wrote in an e-mail. He said that extending master limited partnership treatment to renewable energy sources would be ''sound policy, in our opinion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kinder Morgan's Rockies Express pipeline runs 1,679 miles from Colorado to Eastern Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KINDER MORGAN) (B1)
 The Bakken Shale formation in North Dakota, one of several shale fields whose growth could help an expanded Kinder Morgan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%)

COMPANY: KINDER MORGAN INC (90%); EL PASO CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: KMI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD D KINDER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); EL PASO, TX, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



714 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: A Formal End

 BODY:
It is a relief that the American role in the misguided Iraq war is finally over. It came to an official close on Thursday with an appropriately subdued ceremony in Baghdad. We mourn the nearly 4,500 American troops and tens of thousands of Iraqis who lost their lives.
After so much pain and sacrifice, Iraqis now have the responsibility for making their own better future. The fighting is not over, and success is still a long shot. The United States has a major role to play: encouraging, supporting and goading Iraq's leaders to make the long-delayed political compromises that are their only hope for building a stable democracy. 
The fact that Saddam Hussein is gone is a genuine cause for celebration. But the list of errors and horrors in this war is inexcusably long, starting with a rush to invasion based on manipulated intelligence.
The Bush administration had no plan for governing the country once Saddam was deposed. The Iraqi economy still bears the scars from the first frenzied days of looting. The decision to disband the Sunni-dominated Iraqi Army helped unleash five years of sectarian strife that has not fully abated. Iraq's political system remains deeply riven by ethnic and religious differences.
America's reputation has yet to fully recover from the horrors of Abu Ghraib. The country is still paying a huge price for President George W. Bush's decision to shortchange the war in Afghanistan. American policy makers, for generations to come, must study these mistakes carefully and ensure that they are not repeated.
As for Iraq today, the authoritarian tendencies of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki are deeply troubling. A member of the Shiite majority that was badly persecuted under Saddam, he has been far more interested in payback than inclusion.
Washington has pushed him over the years -- but, often, not hard enough.
The Baghdad government promised jobs to 100,000 members of the Sunni Awakening movement -- insurgents whose decision to switch sides helped end the civil war -- but only half that have been hired. Parliament still needs to enact a law, called for in the Constitution, that would provide a legal basis for determining who should be prosecuted for supporting Saddam's Baath Party or other extremist ideologies. Iraq's leaders have many more issues to resolve. Incredibly, they have still not decided how to divide the country's oil wealth. There is no agreement on who will control the oil-rich city of Kirkuk, which is claimed by both Baghdad and the semiautonomous Kurdish regional government.
Iraq's oil production still has not rebounded, and basic services like electricity are still woefully inadequate. Iraq needs an impartial justice system. Washington has pressed Baghdad for years to end corruption and build a representative government. It will need to keep pressing.
After investing billions of dollars, the United States has had more success rebuilding Iraq's security forces. But Iraqi and American commanders say these forces are not ready to fully protect the country against insurgents or potentially hostile neighbors. There are critical weaknesses in intelligence, air defenses, artillery and logistics.
The Obama administration was unable to reach a new defense agreement with Baghdad that would have allowed several thousand American troops to stay behind as backup. We hope that the Iraqi Army will do better than expected. The administration must be prepared to offer limited help if the army does get into serious trouble.
President Obama, who first ran for office campaigning against the war, has never wavered on his promise to bring the troops home. The last few thousand will be out of Iraq by year's end. We celebrate their return. But this country must never forget the intolerable costs of a war started on arrogance and lies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); RELIGION (72%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



715 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Cornell's Bid for City Campus Gains and Stanford Bows Out

BYLINE: RICHARD PREZ-PEA


HIGHLIGHT: Cornell's receipt of $350 million to help finance its proposal as part of New York City's competition for an engineering powerhouse is said to be one reason Stanford withdrew. 

 BODY:
Update, 5:27 p.m. | New York City's contest to build a science graduate school took a startling turn on Friday, as Stanford University bowed out of the competition, shortly before Cornell University announced receipt of a $350 million gift to help pay for its proposed campus on Roosevelt Island.
The two universities had long been regarded as the front-runners in the contest, with the city expected to pick a winner in January. Officials said Stanford had dropped its bid in part because it was being outpaced in fund-raising by Cornell. Cornell did not identify the source of the $350 million, the largest donation in its history.
Until Stanford officials sent a statement to reporters and alumni at 2 p.m. Eastern time, there had been no public sign of wavering in the university's commitment to the $2 billion project. In fact, Lisa Lapin, a university spokeswoman, said, "our negotiating team is still in New York; they were still working on it yesterday."
John Hennessy, the university's president, said in a prepared statement, "Stanford was very excited to participate in the competition, and we were honored to be selected as a finalist." The statement continued, "We were looking forward to an innovative partnership with the City of New York, and we are sorry that together we could not find a way to realize our mutual goals."
Mr. Hennessy said he and the university trustees made the decision to withdraw on Friday morning. 
Stanford officials had become frustrated by the city's attempts to negotiate new terms after the university submitted its proposal in October, according to people briefed on the matter, who insisted on anonymity because they were not authorized to reveal private discussions.
The city received seven proposals, but Cornell and Stanford were considered the top contenders. Both are national leaders in engineering and computer science, and they proposed the most ambitious plans, each calling for about two million square feet of space on Roosevelt Island, which is one of three sites that was offered by the city. If anything, Stanford, the catalyst for Silicon Valley - Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's model in dreaming up the project - was seen as having a leg up.
Columbia proposed about 1.1 million square feet in West Harlem, while much smaller plans were submitted for Brooklyn, one from a consortium led by New York University, and one from Carnegie Mellon University. They are also still in the running.
"This competition is about changing the future of the city's economy, and we are thrilled that we have a number of proposals that we believe will do exactly that," Julie Wood, deputy press secretary for Mr. Bloomberg, said in an e-mail. "We are in serious negotiations with several of the other applicants, each of whom has a game-changing project queued up. We look forward to announcing a winner soon. We thank Stanford for participating in our process and wish them good luck."

        
Stanford Teams With City College (Think Engineering School)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%) Stanford University; Colleges and Universities; Roosevelt Island (NYC); Higher Education

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%) Stanford University

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Roosevelt Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



716 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2054 words

HEADLINE: 2011 in Rhyme and Headlines: The 'Year in Rap' and Our Annual News Quiz

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN and ANNISSA HAMBOUZ


HIGHLIGHT: Watch Flocabulary's just-released 2011 Year in Rap, then take our annual news quiz by filling in the blanks to remember the people, places and events that made news this year. 

 BODY:
The Year in Rap: 2011 from Flocabulary
As promised, we're delighted to present the just-released 2011 Year in Rap from Flocabulary, our collaborators in a rap lyrics contest for students we're running until Jan. 6. 
Say farewell to a busy news year by first watching the video (and, perhaps, reading over the full lyrics), then taking our news quiz, which offers a Times take on many of the same stories. You can fill in the blanks with your own guesses, or choose, below, from a scrambled list of words that were removed.
Then, if you're not among the 100-plus students who have already submitted, try your hand at writing your own rhymes about 2011. 
Coming next week: ideas for teaching about 2011, with links to interesting retrospectives in The Times and around the Web. 
News Quiz | Farewell, 2011
1. On Jan. 8, _________, a Democrat who has represented Arizona's Eighth Congressional District since 2007, was shot in the head at point-blank range, as she greeted constituents outside a Tucson grocery store. 
2. _________, the most populous country in the Arab world, erupted in mass protests in January 2011, as the revolution in _________ inflamed decades worth of smoldering grievances against the heavy-handed rule of President _________. After 18 days of angry protests and after losing the support of the military and the United States, he resigned on Feb. 11. By the end of November, through elections, protests, government formations and armed struggle,_________ countries in an arc from Libya to the gulf were engaged more than ever in attempts not to simply overthrow leaders, but to decisively shape the orders that follow.
3. Over shouts of protest from Democrats, the Republican-controlled _________ State Assembly passed a bill on Feb. 25 that would strip state employees of most of their collective bargaining rights. The bill led to weeks of massive _________ in and around the statehouse by union workers and became the leading edge of a wider fight over public workers and collective bargaining in statehouses in places like Ohio, Michigan, Iowa and Indiana. 
4. Rescuers struggled to reach survivors on the morning of March 12 as Japan reeled after an earthquake and a _________ struck in deadly tandem. The 8.9-magnitude earthquake set off a devastating tsunami that sent walls of water washing over coastal cities in the north. Concerns mounted over possible radiation leaks from two _________ plants near the earthquake zone.
5. In March, __________ team owners declared a lockout, creating the game's first work stoppage since 1987 and imperiling the 2011 regular season. In July, they reached an agreement to put an end to the longest work stoppage in league history, ensuring that the 16-game season would start on time.
6. _________, the actress who dazzled generations of moviegoers with her stunning beauty and whose name was synonymous with Hollywood glamour, died on March 23 at the age of 79.
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 7, 2011,
8. Prince William, the oldest son of Prince Charles, heir to the British throne, married _________ at Westminster Abbey in London on April 29 in one of the largest and most- watched events in Britain in decades - an interlude of romance in a time of austerity and a moment that will shape the future of the British monarchy.
9. On April 27, as many as 100 different _________ ripped through the South, killing at least 291 people across six states, with more than half - 204 people - in Alabama, the epicenter. In May, much of __________, Mo., lay in ruins after a massive tornado, labeled as the deadliest single tornado in more than half a century, tore through the area, killing at least 140 people.
10. _________, the mastermind of the most devastating attack on American soil in modern times and the most hunted man in the world, was killed in a firefight with United States forces in _________, President Obama announced on May 1.
11. The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, _________, was taken off an Air France plane at Kennedy International Airport minutes before it was to depart for Paris on May 15 in connection with the sexual attack of a maid at a Midtown Manhattan hotel. He resigned from his _________ post and pleaded not guilty. The case was dismissed in August after prosecutors developed doubts about the maid's credibility. 
12. The last episode of "_________" was televised on May 25. The Times described it as "the biggest such moment in television since Johnny Carson quit "The Tonight Show" two decades ago." 
13. After two years of static negotiations on a new labor deal, _________ owners voted to impose a lockout on July 1, 2011, creating the first work stoppage since 1999. In Nov. they reached a tentative deal to save the season.
14. _________, the young mother whose seeming heartlessness at the disappearance of her daughter transfixed America for three years, was found not guilty on July 5 of killing the girl, Caylee Marie. 
15. On July 8, cars and Winnebagos lined the sides of roadways with prime views as hundreds of thousands of people came to watch the 135th flight in the _________ program. The program, which began in 1981, came to an end with the Atlantis.
16. On July 9, after more than five decades of an underdog, guerrilla struggle and two million lives lost, the Republic of _________, Africa's 54th state, declared its independence.
17. Also on July 9, _________ became the 28th player in baseball history, and the first Yankee, to reach 3,000 hits.
18. In July, charges about tactics used by _________, a British newspaper owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, erupted into a scandal that led to the paper's closing and put Mr. Murdoch and the tabloid culture he represents under unprecedented scrutiny.
19. On July 22, at least 77 people were killed in the bombing of a government building in central _________ and a shooting rampage at a youth camp at an island near the capital, Oslo.
20. _________, the Grammy-award winning singer who has battled addiction problems for years, was found dead at her apartment in London on July 23 at the age of 27. Jim Morrison, Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, Kurt Cobain and Brian Jones of the Rolling Stones died at the same age.
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 21, 2009,
22. In late August, Hurricane _________ left a trail of destruction that killed at least 44 people in 13 states on the East Coast. It will most likely prove to be one of the 10 costliest catastrophes in the nation's history. 
23. On _________, however briefly, nations around the world came together with the United States to remember the attacks on New York and the Pentagon that killed nearly 3,000 people from 90 countries. 
24. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, announced on Sept. 16 that he would seek membership for a state of Palestine from the _________ Security Council, putting him on a collision course with Israel and the United States as both face an Arab world in turmoil.
25. On Sept. 20, the 18-year-old "__________" policy officially ended and with it the discharges that removed more than 13,000 men and women from the military under the old ban on openly gay troops.
26. is a diffuse group of activists who say they stand against corporate greed, social inequality and the corrosive power of major banks and multinational corporations over the democratic process. On Sept. 17, the group began a loosely organized protest in New York's financial district, encamping in _________ Park, a privately owned park open to the public in Lower Manhattan. Three weeks into the protest,similar demonstrations spread to dozens of other cities across the country, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Boston.
27. With a rapt worldwide television audience looking on, an Italian court on Oct. 3 reversed the murder conviction of 24-year-old _________, the American student whose sensational murder trial had reverberated on both sides of the Atlantic.
28. _________, the visionary co-founder of Apple who helped usher in the era of personal computers and then led a cultural transformation in the way music, movies and mobile communications were experienced in the digital age, died on Oct. 5 at age 56.
29. Col. _________, the erratic, provocative dictator who ruled Libya for 42 years, crushing opponents at home while cultivating the wardrobe and looks befitting an aging rock star, met a violent and vengeful death on Oct. 20 in the hands of the Libyan forces that drove him from power. 
30. On Oct. 21, President Obama declared that the United States would bring all American troops home from _________ by the end of the year, ending a nearly nine-year military engagement that cost the lives of 4,400 troops and more than $1 trillion, divided the American public and came to define America's role in the world. The United States military officially declared an end to its mission there on Dec. 15.
31. According to United Nations demographers, the world's population topped _________ on Oct. 31.
32. _________, who has the most victories of any coach in major college football history, was fired by Penn State on Nov. 9 in the wake of a sexual abuse scandal involving a prominent former assistant coach and the university's failure to act to halt further harm.
33. With his country swept up in Europe's debt crisis and his once-mighty political capital spent, Prime Minister _________ resigned on Nov. 12, punctuating a tumultuous week and ending an era in Italian politics.
34. On Dec. 3, an unapologetic and defiant _________ suspended his presidential campaign, pledging that he "would not go away," even as he abandoned hope of winning the Republican nomination. As the leading Republican candidates gathered for their final debate of the year on Dec. 16 in _________, where the first caucuses will be held in 2012, longtime supporters of former Governor of Massachusetts _________ were questioning whether he can blunt former House speaker _________'s rise. 
35. The number of Americans filing new claims for _________ benefits dropped to a nine-month low in early December, suggesting the labor market's recovery was gaining momentum. On Dec. 14, the _________ said it was closing the books on 2011, maintaining its existing efforts to increase growth but adding no reinforcement amid evidence that the American economy was chugging back toward health. The central bank will enter next year as it entered this one, in a stance of hopeful exhaustion, optimistic the economy is gaining strength, worried about setbacks and doubtful it can do much more to hasten recovery. 
tsunamiOsama bin LadenNews of the WorldThe Oprah Winfrey ShowDerek JeterFederal Reserve Silvio Berlusconi I.M.F.Joe Paternodon't ask, don't tellZuccottiIraqEygptUnited NationsSenateMitt RomneyIowademonstrationsArab Casey AnthonyunemploymentnuclearNational Basketball Associationshutdownseven billionNorwayPakistanSteven P. JobsdefaultTunisiaRepublicansOccupy Wall StreetJoplinHosni Mubarakspace shuttleAmanda KnoxSept. 11National Football LeagueWisconsin Amy WinehouseSouth Sudan Dominique Strauss-KahnKate MiddletonGreeceElizabeth TaylortornadoesNewt GingrichHerman CainGabrielle GiffordsSpainIreneMuammar el-Qaddafi
If you did well on our 2011 quiz, maybe you'd like to test yourself on 2009 or 2010 - or see what you remember about the whole first decade of this millennium. Here are three more Learning Network quizzes:
2000 to 2009: The Decade That Was: 50 Fill-Ins.
News Quiz | Farewell, 2009
News Quiz | Farewell, 2010

        
Student Contest | Celebrate 2011 by Writing Raps About the Year's News
        
What Was Most Visited on NYTimes.com in 2010?
        
Looking Back at 2010: Teaching Ideas
        
News Quiz | Farewell, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); STRIKES (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (85%); LABOR UNIONS (85%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); FILM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); LOCKOUTS (67%); HEAD INJURIES (67%); TSUNAMIS (65%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (65%) 2011; Flocabulary; News Quiz; retrospective; Year in Rap; American History; Current Events; Fill-In; Global History; Journalism; Lesson Plans; Social Studies; Witnessing History

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



717 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2054 words

HEADLINE: 2011 in Rhyme and Headlines: The 'Year in Rap' and Our Annual News Quiz

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN and ANNISSA HAMBOUZ


HIGHLIGHT: Watch Flocabulary's just-released 2011 Year in Rap, then take our annual news quiz by filling in the blanks to remember the people, places and events that made news this year. 

 BODY:
The Year in Rap: 2011 from Flocabulary
As promised, we're delighted to present the just-released 2011 Year in Rap from Flocabulary, our collaborators in a rap lyrics contest for students we're running until Jan. 6. 
Say farewell to a busy news year by first watching the video (and, perhaps, reading over the full lyrics), then taking our news quiz, which offers a Times take on many of the same stories. You can fill in the blanks with your own guesses, or choose, below, from a scrambled list of words that were removed.
Then, if you're not among the 100-plus students who have already submitted, try your hand at writing your own rhymes about 2011. 
Coming next week: ideas for teaching about 2011, with links to interesting retrospectives in The Times and around the Web. 
News Quiz | Farewell, 2011
1. On Jan. 8, _________, a Democrat who has represented Arizona's Eighth Congressional District since 2007, was shot in the head at point-blank range, as she greeted constituents outside a Tucson grocery store. 
2. _________, the most populous country in the Arab world, erupted in mass protests in January 2011, as the revolution in _________ inflamed decades worth of smoldering grievances against the heavy-handed rule of President _________. After 18 days of angry protests and after losing the support of the military and the United States, he resigned on Feb. 11. By the end of November, through elections, protests, government formations and armed struggle,_________ countries in an arc from Libya to the gulf were engaged more than ever in attempts not to simply overthrow leaders, but to decisively shape the orders that follow.
3. Over shouts of protest from Democrats, the Republican-controlled _________ State Assembly passed a bill on Feb. 25 that would strip state employees of most of their collective bargaining rights. The bill led to weeks of massive _________ in and around the statehouse by union workers and became the leading edge of a wider fight over public workers and collective bargaining in statehouses in places like Ohio, Michigan, Iowa and Indiana. 
4. Rescuers struggled to reach survivors on the morning of March 12 as Japan reeled after an earthquake and a _________ struck in deadly tandem. The 8.9-magnitude earthquake set off a devastating tsunami that sent walls of water washing over coastal cities in the north. Concerns mounted over possible radiation leaks from two _________ plants near the earthquake zone.
5. In March, __________ team owners declared a lockout, creating the game's first work stoppage since 1987 and imperiling the 2011 regular season. In July, they reached an agreement to put an end to the longest work stoppage in league history, ensuring that the 16-game season would start on time.
6. _________, the actress who dazzled generations of moviegoers with her stunning beauty and whose name was synonymous with Hollywood glamour, died on March 23 at the age of 79.
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 7, 2011,
8. Prince William, the oldest son of Prince Charles, heir to the British throne, married _________ at Westminster Abbey in London on April 29 in one of the largest and most- watched events in Britain in decades - an interlude of romance in a time of austerity and a moment that will shape the future of the British monarchy.
9. On April 27, as many as 100 different _________ ripped through the South, killing at least 291 people across six states, with more than half - 204 people - in Alabama, the epicenter. In May, much of __________, Mo., lay in ruins after a massive tornado, labeled as the deadliest single tornado in more than half a century, tore through the area, killing at least 140 people.
10. _________, the mastermind of the most devastating attack on American soil in modern times and the most hunted man in the world, was killed in a firefight with United States forces in _________, President Obama announced on May 1.
11. The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, _________, was taken off an Air France plane at Kennedy International Airport minutes before it was to depart for Paris on May 15 in connection with the sexual attack of a maid at a Midtown Manhattan hotel. He resigned from his _________ post and pleaded not guilty. The case was dismissed in August after prosecutors developed doubts about the maid's credibility. 
12. The last episode of "_________" was televised on May 25. The Times described it as "the biggest such moment in television since Johnny Carson quit "The Tonight Show" two decades ago." 
13. After two years of static negotiations on a new labor deal, _________ owners voted to impose a lockout on July 1, 2011, creating the first work stoppage since 1999. In Nov. they reached a tentative deal to save the season.
14. _________, the young mother whose seeming heartlessness at the disappearance of her daughter transfixed America for three years, was found not guilty on July 5 of killing the girl, Caylee Marie. 
15. On July 8, cars and Winnebagos lined the sides of roadways with prime views as hundreds of thousands of people came to watch the 135th flight in the _________ program. The program, which began in 1981, came to an end with the Atlantis.
16. On July 9, after more than five decades of an underdog, guerrilla struggle and two million lives lost, the Republic of _________, Africa's 54th state, declared its independence.
17. Also on July 9, _________ became the 28th player in baseball history, and the first Yankee, to reach 3,000 hits.
18. In July, charges about tactics used by _________, a British newspaper owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, erupted into a scandal that led to the paper's closing and put Mr. Murdoch and the tabloid culture he represents under unprecedented scrutiny.
19. On July 22, at least 77 people were killed in the bombing of a government building in central _________ and a shooting rampage at a youth camp at an island near the capital, Oslo.
20. _________, the Grammy-award winning singer who has battled addiction problems for years, was found dead at her apartment in London on July 23 at the age of 27. Jim Morrison, Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, Kurt Cobain and Brian Jones of the Rolling Stones died at the same age.
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 21, 2009,
22. In late August, Hurricane _________ left a trail of destruction that killed at least 44 people in 13 states on the East Coast. It will most likely prove to be one of the 10 costliest catastrophes in the nation's history. 
23. On _________, however briefly, nations around the world came together with the United States to remember the attacks on New York and the Pentagon that killed nearly 3,000 people from 90 countries. 
24. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, announced on Sept. 16 that he would seek membership for a state of Palestine from the _________ Security Council, putting him on a collision course with Israel and the United States as both face an Arab world in turmoil.
25. On Sept. 20, the 18-year-old "__________" policy officially ended and with it the discharges that removed more than 13,000 men and women from the military under the old ban on openly gay troops.
26. is a diffuse group of activists who say they stand against corporate greed, social inequality and the corrosive power of major banks and multinational corporations over the democratic process. On Sept. 17, the group began a loosely organized protest in New York's financial district, encamping in _________ Park, a privately owned park open to the public in Lower Manhattan. Three weeks into the protest,similar demonstrations spread to dozens of other cities across the country, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Boston.
27. With a rapt worldwide television audience looking on, an Italian court on Oct. 3 reversed the murder conviction of 24-year-old _________, the American student whose sensational murder trial had reverberated on both sides of the Atlantic.
28. _________, the visionary co-founder of Apple who helped usher in the era of personal computers and then led a cultural transformation in the way music, movies and mobile communications were experienced in the digital age, died on Oct. 5 at age 56.
29. Col. _________, the erratic, provocative dictator who ruled Libya for 42 years, crushing opponents at home while cultivating the wardrobe and looks befitting an aging rock star, met a violent and vengeful death on Oct. 20 in the hands of the Libyan forces that drove him from power. 
30. On Oct. 21, President Obama declared that the United States would bring all American troops home from _________ by the end of the year, ending a nearly nine-year military engagement that cost the lives of 4,400 troops and more than $1 trillion, divided the American public and came to define America's role in the world. The United States military officially declared an end to its mission there on Dec. 15.
31. According to United Nations demographers, the world's population topped _________ on Oct. 31.
32. _________, who has the most victories of any coach in major college football history, was fired by Penn State on Nov. 9 in the wake of a sexual abuse scandal involving a prominent former assistant coach and the university's failure to act to halt further harm.
33. With his country swept up in Europe's debt crisis and his once-mighty political capital spent, Prime Minister _________ resigned on Nov. 12, punctuating a tumultuous week and ending an era in Italian politics.
34. On Dec. 3, an unapologetic and defiant _________ suspended his presidential campaign, pledging that he "would not go away," even as he abandoned hope of winning the Republican nomination. As the leading Republican candidates gathered for their final debate of the year on Dec. 16 in _________, where the first caucuses will be held in 2012, longtime supporters of former Governor of Massachusetts _________ were questioning whether he can blunt former House speaker _________'s rise. 
35. The number of Americans filing new claims for _________ benefits dropped to a nine-month low in early December, suggesting the labor market's recovery was gaining momentum. On Dec. 14, the _________ said it was closing the books on 2011, maintaining its existing efforts to increase growth but adding no reinforcement amid evidence that the American economy was chugging back toward health. The central bank will enter next year as it entered this one, in a stance of hopeful exhaustion, optimistic the economy is gaining strength, worried about setbacks and doubtful it can do much more to hasten recovery. 
tsunamiOsama bin LadenNews of the WorldThe Oprah Winfrey ShowDerek JeterFederal Reserve Silvio Berlusconi I.M.F.Joe Paternodon't ask, don't tellZuccottiIraqEygptUnited NationsSenateMitt RomneyIowademonstrationsArab Casey AnthonyunemploymentnuclearNational Basketball Associationshutdownseven billionNorwayPakistanSteven P. JobsdefaultTunisiaRepublicansOccupy Wall StreetJoplinHosni Mubarakspace shuttleAmanda KnoxSept. 11National Football LeagueWisconsin Amy WinehouseSouth Sudan Dominique Strauss-KahnKate MiddletonGreeceElizabeth TaylortornadoesNewt GingrichHerman CainGabrielle GiffordsSpainIreneMuammar el-Qaddafi
If you did well on our 2011 quiz, maybe you'd like to test yourself on 2009 or 2010 - or see what you remember about the whole first decade of this millennium. Here are three more Learning Network quizzes:
2000 to 2009: The Decade That Was: 50 Fill-Ins.
News Quiz | Farewell, 2009
News Quiz | Farewell, 2010

        
Student Contest | Celebrate 2011 by Writing Raps About the Year's News
        
What Was Most Visited on NYTimes.com in 2010?
        
Looking Back at 2010: Teaching Ideas
        
News Quiz | Farewell, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); STRIKES (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (85%); LABOR UNIONS (85%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); FILM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); LOCKOUTS (67%); HEAD INJURIES (67%); TSUNAMIS (65%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (65%) 2011; Flocabulary; News Quiz; retrospective; Year in Rap; American History; Current Events; Fill-In; Global History; Journalism; Lesson Plans; Social Studies; Witnessing History

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



718 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2145 words

HEADLINE: 2011 in Rhyme and Headlines: The 'Year in Rap' and Our Annual News Quiz

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN and ANNISSA HAMBOUZ


HIGHLIGHT: Watch Flocabulary's just-released 2011 Year in Rap, then take our annual news quiz by filling in the blanks to remember the people, places and events that made news this year. 

 BODY:
The Year in Rap: 2011 from Flocabulary
As promised, we're delighted to present the just-released 2011 Year in Rap from Flocabulary, our collaborators in a rap lyrics contest for students we're running until Jan. 6. 
Say farewell to a busy news year by first watching the video (and, perhaps, reading over the full lyrics), then taking our news quiz, which offers a Times take on many of the same stories. You can fill in the blanks with your own guesses, or choose, below, from a scrambled list of words that were removed.
Then, if you're not among the 100-plus students who have already submitted, try your hand at writing your own rhymes about 2011. 
Coming next week: ideas for teaching about 2011, with links to interesting retrospectives in The Times and around the Web. 
News Quiz | Farewell, 2011
1. On Jan. 8, _________, a Democrat who has represented Arizona's Eighth Congressional District since 2007, was shot in the head at point-blank range, as she greeted constituents outside a Tucson grocery store. 
2. _________, the most populous country in the Arab world, erupted in mass protests in January 2011, as the revolution in _________ inflamed decades worth of smoldering grievances against the heavy-handed rule of President _________. After 18 days of angry protests and after losing the support of the military and the United States, he resigned on Feb. 11. By the end of November, through elections, protests, government formations and armed struggle,_________ countries in an arc from Libya to the gulf were engaged more than ever in attempts not to simply overthrow leaders, but to decisively shape the orders that follow.
3. Over shouts of protest from Democrats, the Republican-controlled _________ State Assembly passed a bill on Feb. 25 that would strip state employees of most of their collective bargaining rights. The bill led to weeks of massive _________ in and around the statehouse by union workers and became the leading edge of a wider fight over public workers and collective bargaining in statehouses in places like Ohio, Michigan, Iowa and Indiana. 
4. Rescuers struggled to reach survivors on the morning of March 12 as Japan reeled after an earthquake and a _________ struck in deadly tandem. The 8.9-magnitude earthquake set off a devastating tsunami that sent walls of water washing over coastal cities in the north. Concerns mounted over possible radiation leaks from two _________ plants near the earthquake zone.
5. In March, __________ team owners declared a lockout, creating the game's first work stoppage since 1987 and imperiling the 2011 regular season. In July, they reached an agreement to put an end to the longest work stoppage in league history, ensuring that the 16-game season would start on time.
6. _________, the actress who dazzled generations of moviegoers with her stunning beauty and whose name was synonymous with Hollywood glamour, died on March 23 at the age of 79.
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 7, 2011,
8. Prince William, the oldest son of Prince Charles, heir to the British throne, married _________ at Westminster Abbey in London on April 29 in one of the largest and most- watched events in Britain in decades - an interlude of romance in a time of austerity and a moment that will shape the future of the British monarchy.
9. On April 27, as many as 100 different _________ ripped through the South, killing at least 291 people across six states, with more than half - 204 people - in Alabama, the epicenter. In May, much of __________, Mo., lay in ruins after a massive tornado, labeled as the deadliest single tornado in more than half a century, tore through the area, killing at least 140 people.
10. _________, the mastermind of the most devastating attack on American soil in modern times and the most hunted man in the world, was killed in a firefight with United States forces in _________, President Obama announced on May 1.
11. The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, _________, was taken off an Air France plane at Kennedy International Airport minutes before it was to depart for Paris on May 15 in connection with the sexual attack of a maid at a Midtown Manhattan hotel. He resigned from his _________ post and pleaded not guilty. The case was dismissed in August after prosecutors developed doubts about the maid's credibility. 
12. The last episode of "_________" was televised on May 25. The Times described it as "the biggest such moment in television since Johnny Carson quit "The Tonight Show" two decades ago." 
13. After two years of static negotiations on a new labor deal, _________ owners voted to impose a lockout on July 1, 2011, creating the first work stoppage since 1999. In Nov. they reached a tentative deal to save the season.
14. _________, the young mother whose seeming heartlessness at the disappearance of her daughter transfixed America for three years, was found not guilty on July 5 of killing the girl, Caylee Marie. 
15. On July 8, cars and Winnebagos lined the sides of roadways with prime views as hundreds of thousands of people came to watch the 135th flight in the _________ program. The program, which began in 1981, came to an end with the Atlantis.
16. On July 9, after more than five decades of an underdog, guerrilla struggle and two million lives lost, the Republic of _________, Africa's 54th state, declared its independence.
17. Also on July 9, _________ became the 28th player in baseball history, and the first Yankee, to reach 3,000 hits.
18. In July, charges about tactics used by _________, a British newspaper owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, erupted into a scandal that led to the paper's closing and put Mr. Murdoch and the tabloid culture he represents under unprecedented scrutiny.
19. On July 22, at least 77 people were killed in the bombing of a government building in central _________ and a shooting rampage at a youth camp at an island near the capital, Oslo.
20. _________, the Grammy-award winning singer who has battled addiction problems for years, was found dead at her apartment in London on July 23 at the age of 27. Jim Morrison, Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, Kurt Cobain and Brian Jones of the Rolling Stones died at the same age.
PUB-DATE: UNKNOWN 21, 2009,
22. In late August, Hurricane _________ left a trail of destruction that killed at least 44 people in 13 states on the East Coast. It will most likely prove to be one of the 10 costliest catastrophes in the nation's history. 
23. On _________, however briefly, nations around the world came together with the United States to remember the attacks on New York and the Pentagon that killed nearly 3,000 people from 90 countries. 
24. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, announced on Sept. 16 that he would seek membership for a state of Palestine from the _________ Security Council, putting him on a collision course with Israel and the United States as both face an Arab world in turmoil.
25. On Sept. 20, the 18-year-old "__________" policy officially ended and with it the discharges that removed more than 13,000 men and women from the military under the old ban on openly gay troops.
26. is a diffuse group of activists who say they stand against corporate greed, social inequality and the corrosive power of major banks and multinational corporations over the democratic process. On Sept. 17, the group began a loosely organized protest in New York's financial district, encamping in _________ Park, a privately owned park open to the public in Lower Manhattan. Three weeks into the protest,similar demonstrations spread to dozens of other cities across the country, including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Boston.
27. With a rapt worldwide television audience looking on, an Italian court on Oct. 3 reversed the murder conviction of 24-year-old _________, the American student whose sensational murder trial had reverberated on both sides of the Atlantic.
28. _________, the visionary co-founder of Apple who helped usher in the era of personal computers and then led a cultural transformation in the way music, movies and mobile communications were experienced in the digital age, died on Oct. 5 at age 56.
29. Col. _________, the erratic, provocative dictator who ruled Libya for 42 years, crushing opponents at home while cultivating the wardrobe and looks befitting an aging rock star, met a violent and vengeful death on Oct. 20 in the hands of the Libyan forces that drove him from power. 
30. On Oct. 21, President Obama declared that the United States would bring all American troops home from _________ by the end of the year, ending a nearly nine-year military engagement that cost the lives of 4,400 troops and more than $1 trillion, divided the American public and came to define America's role in the world. The United States military officially declared an end to its mission there on Dec. 15.
31. According to United Nations demographers, the world's population topped _________ on Oct. 31.
32. _________, who has the most victories of any coach in major college football history, was fired by Penn State on Nov. 9 in the wake of a sexual abuse scandal involving a prominent former assistant coach and the university's failure to act to halt further harm.
33. With his country swept up in Europe's debt crisis and his once-mighty political capital spent, Prime Minister _________ resigned on Nov. 12, punctuating a tumultuous week and ending an era in Italian politics.
34. On Dec. 3, an unapologetic and defiant _________ suspended his presidential campaign, pledging that he "would not go away," even as he abandoned hope of winning the Republican nomination. As the leading Republican candidates gathered for their final debate of the year on Dec. 16 in _________, where the first caucuses will be held in 2012, longtime supporters of former Governor of Massachusetts _________ were questioning whether he can blunt former House speaker _________'s rise. 
35. The number of Americans filing new claims for _________ benefits dropped to a nine-month low in early December, suggesting the labor market's recovery was gaining momentum. On Dec. 14, the _________ said it was closing the books on 2011, maintaining its existing efforts to increase growth but adding no reinforcement amid evidence that the American economy was chugging back toward health. The central bank will enter next year as it entered this one, in a stance of hopeful exhaustion, optimistic the economy is gaining strength, worried about setbacks and doubtful it can do much more to hasten recovery. 
Update: Dec. 19
36. _________ was the hereditary and eccentric ruler of North Korea, the country founded by his father, Kim Il-sung, from the time his father died in 1994 until his own death, on Dec. 17, 2011. Called the "Dear Leader" by his people, he presided with an iron hand over a country he kept on the edge of starvation and collapse, fostering perhaps the last personality cult in the Communist world even as he banished citizens deemed disloyal to gulags or sent assassins after defectors. 
tsunamiOsama bin LadenNews of the WorldThe Oprah Winfrey ShowDerek JeterKim Jong-ilFederal Reserve Silvio Berlusconi I.M.F.Joe Paternodon't ask, don't tellZuccottiIraqEygptUnited NationsSenateMitt RomneyIowademonstrationsArab Casey AnthonyunemploymentnuclearNational Basketball Associationshutdownseven billionNorwayPakistanSteven P. JobsdefaultTunisiaRepublicansOccupy Wall StreetJoplinHosni Mubarakspace shuttleAmanda KnoxSept. 11National Football LeagueWisconsin Amy WinehouseSouth Sudan Dominique Strauss-KahnKate MiddletonGreeceElizabeth TaylortornadoesNewt GingrichHerman CainGabrielle GiffordsSpainIreneMuammar el-Qaddafi
If you did well on our 2011 quiz, maybe you'd like to test yourself on 2009 or 2010 - or see what you remember about the whole first decade of this millennium. Here are three more Learning Network quizzes:
2000 to 2009: The Decade That Was: 50 Fill-Ins.
News Quiz | Farewell, 2009
News Quiz | Farewell, 2010

        
Student Contest | Celebrate 2011 by Writing Raps About the Year's News
        
What Will You Remember Most From 2011?
        
What Was Most Visited on NYTimes.com in 2010?
        
Looking Back at 2010: Teaching Ideas
        
News Quiz | Farewell, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); STRIKES (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (85%); LABOR UNIONS (85%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); FILM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); LOCKOUTS (67%); HEAD INJURIES (67%); TSUNAMIS (65%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (65%) 2011; Flocabulary; News Quiz; retrospective; Year in Rap; American History; Current Events; Fill-In; Global History; Journalism; Lesson Plans; Social Studies; Witnessing History

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



719 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Primaries

BYLINE: GARY HART


HIGHLIGHT: What voters believe and how they form coalitions around candidates matter more than the ups and downs of any individual politician. 

 BODY:
Most national candidates, and too many political commentators, miss the mini-primaries that lead up to the real events. In coalition parties, which the Democrats have been since F.D.R. and the Republicans have been since Nixon, campaigns are formed by creating personal coalitions around the various candidates. And for grassroots campaigns, of the sort I constructed for myself in 1983-84, it is even more basic than that. It is about finding key people in key primary states who combine a high reputation, organizational skill and a network of political contacts to form a campaign nucleus around which the rest of the state can be organized. I was once asked how many people I needed to win New Hampshire and I said, "Six."
A presidential campaign involves two distinct races: the first for leadership of the party; the second for leadership of the nation. Leadership of the party, the nomination race, requires occupying (in the military sense) more of the party's primary electorate - what we now call the base - than any other contender. But that base is made up of factions. In the Republican case, those factions include conservative Protestant evangelicals, neoconservative foreign policy and national security hawks, the Tea Party, much but not all of Wall Street, many of Main Street's small business owners, libertarians and cultural conservatives, among others.
Of course, we will not know which of the current crop of candidates has succeeded in attracting which of these factions until the first two or three caucuses and primaries. Almost inevitably, the race will narrow quickly to two, no more than three, candidates. On rare occasions, and the 1984 Democratic contest for leadership of the party was one of those, the battle will continue to the party convention. That campaign involved both a generational divide and a struggle over whether the party would hold to its past, as represented by the industrial economy and its labor organizations, or whether it would move toward a new, information-based economy and embrace globalization in the process. I formed my coalition around the emergence of this new economy. The front-runner, former vice-president Walter Mondale, was very much the candidate of the traditional Democratic party; the Rev. Jesse Jackson formed a "rainbow coalition" around a strong nucleus of African-Americans.
The current Republican contest has yet to reveal that kind of historical fault line. But something just like it could be opened up by a potential stop-Romney movement in which the adherents of all the other candidates coalesce around a candidate who promises to hold together a post-Reagan coalition that is highly religious, anti-government anti-financial establishment. This coalition would be libertarian while embracing an intrusive security state. And it also would have to be acceptable to the conservative media complex that plays a much greater role in Republican party affairs than the supposed mainstream media ever has in Democratic party matters.
The reason for the current confusion in the Republican nomination race has to do with the confused coalition the current party has become. It is now made up of a variety of factions that have no economic or social cement that holds them together. The Roosevelt coalition worked, more or less, for almost five decades because of an underlying economic cause: social justice, equity, fairness and opportunity. That cement is missing in the current Republican party. Instead, it is a grab-bag of grievances, anger and resentments.
All of this is meant to focus our attention on the deep undercurrents underlying a party's nomination process that have less to do with personalities and much more to do with profoundly held beliefs. There is a misperception, especially within the political media, that "activists" spend hours, weeks, months and years organizing because they enjoy "politics." That is wrong. So-called activists are motivated overwhelmingly by a cause, a principle, a belief. The Washington insider networks, including professional politicos, pundits, the growing army of young strategists, analysts, campaign consultants, advisers and camp followers, are entranced by the poll-driven horse-race, the who's up-who's down aspect of the contest for power. But that misses the real drama of politics and campaigns. They are overwhelmingly about ideas.
Amidst all the dust, noise, and confusion of that circus, there are often profound issues of conviction and commitment. Cause-oriented factions use parties to promote their beliefs, but their loyalties are to the cause, not the party. In the final analysis, those convictions and beliefs will determine the direction of the nation, possibly for decades to come, more than the surface struggle over ambition and power. One Republican campaign will eventually go up against the Obama team. But the coalition that made that campaign succeed will determine the game plan for the national election and possibly the fate of the nation beyond it.
It is impossible to know what the successful Republican nomination coalition will look like yet. That will unfold soon, when the primaries and caucuses begin, and a nominee emerges. But a good deal of the present vaulting and falling of candidate after candidate reflects the struggle for dominance among the various factions in the party, especially the new Tea Party element. More important historically than who the eventual nominee will be is whether the nominating coalition proves strong enough to take over the national Republican party and control it for a number of elections and decades to come.

        
Other Stops: Fixing Afghanistan
        
The Souljah Legacy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); RELIGION (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); NEW ECONOMY (85%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%) beliefs; Gary Hart; Jesse Jackson; the Republican primary campaign; Walter Mondale; Hart, Gary; Jackson, Jesse L; Mondale, Walter F; Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Tea Party Movement; Democratic Party; United States

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (89%) Hart, Gary; Jackson, Jesse L; Mondale, Walter F

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



720 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: A Look Back at Extended Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Since June 2008, when Congress first created the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, nearly 18 million Americans have at some point received federally funded extended unemployment benefits. 

 BODY:
Tangled in the current Washington debate over extending the payroll tax is another thorny, but less prominent, policy issue: whether to also renew extended unemployment benefits.
States typically allow unemployed workers to receive up to 26 weeks of unemployment benefits. But two temporary, federally funded programs have enabled some job-seekers to receive checks for up to 99 weeks in states with especially high unemployment rates.
At the end of this month, those federally paid programs will end unless Congress decides to extend them once again. (The programs have been renewed several times already in the years since they were first created.) The White House estimates that without an extension, an additional five million jobless workers will exhaust their benefits by the end of 2012.
Given all this, it's probably worth looking back at the role that unemployment benefits have played in the economy. Since June 2008, when Congress first created the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, nearly 18 million Americans have at some point received federally funded extended unemployment benefits.
Many economists have argued that, besides being compassionate, unemployment benefits have stimulated the economy. That's because people who receive jobless benefits go out and spend their checks very quickly after receiving them, and spending ripples through the rest of the economy.
But some economists worry that longer periods for benefits may delay the job market recovery. By definition, jobless benefits make unemployment less uncomfortable, and so on the margins they may discourage idle Americans from going back to work if they have the option.
Benefits generally don't cover more than half of a worker's lost wages, and they're capped at a maximum amount. In many states, the cap is quite low relative to the cost of living and local wages, so there is probably still a strong incentive for most unemployed workers to start earning higher wages again instead of receiving benefit checks.
The table below is from a new White House report on jobless benefits, and it shows average weekly unemployment benefits received per worker, the maximum weekly benefit granted in that state and the share of a worker's lost wages that jobless benefits cover.


State average weekly benefit maximum weekly benefit wage replacement rate (2010)	$201Alabama$26540.80%	$224Alaska$44233.00%	$214Arizona$24040.50%	$278Arkansas$45151.30%	$315California$45044.80%	$335Colorado$48950.40%	$332Connecticut$63044.20%	$263Delaware$33042.00%	District of $285Columbia$35940.90%	$225Florida$27541.00%	$231Georgia$33045.70%	$425Hawaii$54956.50%	$260Idaho$33648.10%	$322Illinois$53138.60%	$296Indiana$39052.50%	$290Iowa$46153.30%	$320Kansas$43552.70%	$306Kentucky$41549.50%	$252Louisiana$24741.60%	$266Maine$53350.10%	$308Maryland$43047.30%	$392Massachusetts$93746.00%	$284Michigan$36249.30%	$337Minnesota$57847.20%	$186Mississippi$23541.90%	$238Missouri$32041.30%	$261Montana$42147.10%	$236Nebraska$34844.60%	$311Nevada$39846.30%	New $291Hampshire$42741.80%	New $375Jersey$59851.40%	New $309Mexico$48655.80%	New $301York$40541.70%	North $284Carolina$50651.90%	North $278Dakota$44247.80%	$291Ohio$52444.30%	$287Oklahoma$35850.60%	$305Oregon$49645.40%	$329Pennsylvania$58153.30%	Puerto $114Rico$13336.20%	Rhode $366Island$68856.20%	South $232Carolina$32646.50%	South $239Dakota$31447.40%	$224Tennessee$32541.30%	$274Texas$41550.40%	$306Utah$45246.20%	$299Vermont$42550.20%	Virgin $334IslandsN$470/A	$272Virginia$37850.20%	$379Washington$57051.30%	West $256Virginia$42440.70%	$258Wisconsin$36346.50%	$305Wyoming$43051.40%	US $293Average$44546.17%	Another variable to bear in mind when thinking about how extended jobless benefits are interacting with unemployment rates is the employer side of the puzzle. After all, unemployment isn't only about Americans' work incentives; it's also about employers' willingness to hire.
In October, there were 3.3 million job openings, but 14 million unemployed workers, according to the Labor Department. That means that even if every single open job was filled with a willing worker, more than 10 million Americans would still be pounding the pavement. 

        
Who Gets Unemployment Benefits
        
How Unemployment Benefits Became Twice as Generous
        
Digging Deeper Into What Caused Job Losses
        
Do Jobless Benefits Discourage People From Finding Jobs?
        
White House Response to Stimulus Criticisms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (96%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%) long-term unemployed; stimulus; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; work incentives; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



721 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: The War Is (Not) Over

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
Russell Hoban, who died on Tuesday at age 86, wrote children's books of unusual depth and beauty.
President Obama came into office pledging his dedication to reversing the excesses of Bush-era national security policy, but he has fallen short: This week, he is poised to sign a terrible new measures that will make indefinite detention and military trials a permanent part of American law.
It is a relief that the misguided Iraq War is finally over, but America's reputation has yet to fully recover, and Iraq's leaders have many important issues to resolve.

Editorial writers at several other papers all caution against an overly rosy assessment of Iraq.
The Guardian calls the invasion one of "the greatest military blunders in history" and says that, for Iraqis, the war isn't really over. American troops have not left behind "a solid, stable, representative" Iraq, as President Obama has claimed.
The Washington Post sounds the same note, arguing that from the Iraqi perspective the conflict "is greatly reduced but not over" as "Iranian-sponsored militias still operate, and a power struggle between Kurdish-ruled northern Iraq and [the] government goes on."
The Financial Times argues that "for many Iraqis, the fear of living in a dictatorship has merely been replaced by the fear of living in a society riven by bitter sectarian divisions" and says that the country's economy has deteriorated.

        
More Rubble From the Military Detention Cave-In
        
The Sound of One President Caving
        
Military Detention: Not Only Legally Flawed, but Inefficient and Expensive
        
Opinion Report: Military Detention
        
President Obama: Veto the Defense Authorization Act

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VETO (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); WRITERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%) Indefinite Detention; Iraq War; Hoban, Russell; Iraq War (2003-2011)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (68%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%) Hoban, Russell

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



722 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: A Busy Day for Romney

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The schedules of the two leading Republican presidential candidates offered a striking contrast in approaches with voting in Iowa set to begin in just 18 days. 

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, Iowa -- Mitt Romney headed toward a weekend sprint across South Carolina on Friday as he collected the endorsement of the governor, Nikki Haley, in the hopes of beating back the recent surge in support for his rival, Newt Gingrich.
Mr. Gingrich, by contrast, left Iowa for a weekend of private events, reportedly including a book-signing at Mount Vernon, Va., and a French horn concert by his wife, Callista. His only weekend campaign event will be a tele-town hall on Sunday, his campaign said.
On Friday morning, as Mr. Romney took the stage at a steel manufacturing plant in Sioux City, the Gingriches were spotted in the back of a black S.U.V. on the highway to Omaha. 
"It feels tough," Mr. Romney said at the plant, speaking about the American economy. But he said: "I know how to get middle-class Americans prosperous again." 
Mr. Romney earned polite applause at the early-morning event before heading to the airport, where members of his staff and the news media planned to board a chartered campaign plane destined for South Carolina and the series of events with Nikki Haley, the state's governor.
The immediate plans of the two men offered a striking contrast in approaches for the two leading candidates for the Republican presidential nomination with the Iowa caucuses just 18 days away.
Mr. Gingrich's approach may test the traditional notions of intense, last-minute campaigning that is common to campaigns at this point in the calendar. Mr. Romney's approach looked more typical of a leading candidate just days before an election.
Mr. Romney did not mention Mr. Gingrich at the Sioux City event, continuing to hold his rhetorical fire the same way he did in Thursday night's debate. But his campaign allies and his rivals continued their weeklong barrage of criticism of Mr. Gingrich's leadership.
Ads paid for by Ron Paul, Rick Perry and a super PAC working on behalf of Mr. Romney are flooding the airwaves in Iowa with ads that attack Mr. Gingrich's ethics and his connection with Washington.
The new ad by Mr. Perry says that "reckless spending and high taxes are destroying our economy. The problem? Political insiders. Newt Gingrich supported increasing the federal debt ceiling one trillion dollars and billions in new earmarks. Mitt Romney raised business taxes 20 percent in Massachusetts."
Michele Bachmann and Mr. Perry both set out on tours of Iowa on Friday morning, beginning in the northwest section of Iowa as they aimed to work their way across the entire state before Christmas.
The debate on Thursday night was the final opportunity for the candidates to make their case to a televised audience in that format before the voting begins on Jan. 3. New Hampshire's primary will take place a week later, on Jan. 10, followed by South Carolina on Jan. 21.
Mr. Romney's campaign successfully held back word of Ms. Haley's endorsement until after the debate ended. She made her announcement during an appearance on "Fox & Friends" on Fox News Friday morning.
"Now more than ever, we need someone who has the leadership to deal with a broken Washington," Ms. Haley said on the show.
Mr. Romney is hoping that the endorsement will help him compete in South Carolina, where he has trailed Mr. Gingrich in several polls.
"As a successful businesswoman who entered public service so government could better serve the people, Governor Haley's career-long efforts to reform government, make government more accountable to the taxpayers, and fight wasteful spending should be examples for leaders across the country," Mr. Romney said in a statement.

        
Gingrich Steps Off the Campaign Trail for the Weekend, Says He's 'Pacing'
        
Romney Holds Fire Against Gingrich in Debate
        
Romney and Gingrich, a Contrast in Styles
        
Romney-Gingrich Skirmishing Intensifies
        
Romney and the $10,000 Bet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX INCREASES (60%); DEBT CEILING (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (55%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) Callista; mitt romney; newt gingrich; Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Iowa; South Carolina; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NIKKI HALEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); RICK PERRY (77%); RON PAUL (50%); MICHELE BACHMANN (50%) Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



723 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: A Busy Day for Romney

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The schedules of the two Republican presidential candidates atop most polls offered a striking contrast with the voting in Iowa set to begin in just 18 days. 

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, Iowa -- Mitt Romney headed toward a weekend sprint across South Carolina on Friday as he collected the endorsement of the governor, Nikki Haley, in the hopes of beating back the recent surge in support for his rival, Newt Gingrich.
Mr. Gingrich, by contrast, left Iowa for a weekend of private events, reportedly including a book-signing at Mount Vernon, Va., and a French horn concert by his wife, Callista. His only weekend campaign event will be a tele-town-hall-style meeting on Sunday, his campaign said.
On Friday morning, as Mr. Romney took the stage at a steel manufacturing plant in Sioux City, the Gingriches were spotted in the back of a black S.U.V. on the highway to Omaha. 
"It feels tough," Mr. Romney said at the plant, speaking about the American economy. But he said, "I know how to get middle-class Americans prosperous again." 
Mr. Romney earned polite applause at the early-morning event before heading to the airport, where members of his staff and the news media planned to board a chartered campaign plane destined for South Carolina and a series of events with Ms. Haley.
The immediate plans of Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich offered a striking contrast in the approaches of the two Republican presidential candidates atop most national polls with the Iowa caucuses just 18 days away.
Mr. Gingrich's approach may test the traditional notions of intense, last-minute campaigning that is common at this point in the calendar. Mr. Romney's approach looked more typical of a leading candidate just days before an election.
Mr. Romney did not mention Mr. Gingrich at the Sioux City event, continuing to hold his rhetorical fire the way he did in Thursday night's debate. But his campaign allies and his rivals continued their weeklong barrage of criticism of Mr. Gingrich's leadership.
Ads paid for by Ron Paul, Rick Perry and a "super PAC" working on behalf of Mr. Romney are flooding the airwaves in Iowa with attacks on Mr. Gingrich's ethics and his connection with Washington.
A new ad by Mr. Perry says: "Reckless spending and high taxes are destroying our economy. The problem? Political insiders. Newt Gingrich supported increasing the federal debt ceiling one trillion dollars and billions in new earmarks. Mitt Romney raised business taxes 20 percent in Massachusetts."
Michele Bachmann and Mr. Perry both set out on tours of Iowa on Friday morning, beginning in the northwest section of Iowa as they aimed to work their way across the entire state before Christmas.
The debate on Thursday night was the final opportunity for the candidates to make their case to a televised audience in that format before the voting begins on Jan. 3. New Hampshire's primary will take place a week later, on Jan. 10, followed by South Carolina on Jan. 21.
Mr. Romney's campaign successfully held back word of Ms. Haley's endorsement until after the debate ended. She made her announcement during an appearance on "Fox & Friends" on Fox News on Friday morning.
"Now more than ever, we need someone who has the leadership to deal with a broken Washington," Ms. Haley said.
Mr. Romney is hoping that the endorsement will help him compete in South Carolina, where he has trailed Mr. Gingrich in several polls.
"As a successful businesswoman who entered public service so government could better serve the people, Governor Haley's career-long efforts to reform government, make government more accountable to the taxpayers, and fight wasteful spending should be examples for leaders across the country," Mr. Romney said in a statement.
Mrs. Bachmann continued her attacks on Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich on Friday, saying that neither one of them were conservatives who could offer a contrast with President Obama.
"I was looking at both of their records, and there really wasn't a dime's worth of difference between either of them," she told reporters as she began an effort to visit all of Iowa's 99 counties in 10 days. "They are both moderates, and they haven't held conservative positions."
Mrs. Bachmann once again took offense to Mr. Gingrich's dismissal of her facts during Thursday night's debate, suggesting that he was not taking her seriously, though she did not charge him with sexism.
"The fact is my facts were right," she said, referring to her statements during the debate. "I am not a student of his. I'm a serious candidate for the presidency, and I think it's important that I be treated as an equal on that stage."
Asked whether that was evidence of sexism on Mr. Gingrich's part, Mrs. Bachmann said that would be for others to judge.

        
Gingrich Steps Off the Campaign Trail for the Weekend, Says He's 'Pacing'
        
Romney Holds Fire Against Gingrich in Debate
        
Romney and Gingrich, a Contrast in Styles
        
Romney-Gingrich Skirmishing Intensifies
        
Romney and the $10,000 Bet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX INCREASES (60%); DEBT CEILING (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (55%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) Callista; mitt romney; newt gingrich; Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Iowa; South Carolina; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); NIKKI HALEY (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); RICK PERRY (77%); RON PAUL (50%); MICHELE BACHMANN (50%) Gingrich, Newt; Haley, Nikki; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



724 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: What Romney Knew About Medicaid

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: What Mitt Romney says he didn't know about knew Medicaid leads to a campaign dustup. 

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, IOWA - As Mitt Romney wound down an early morning town hall in Iowa, finishing up an answer on entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid, he offered a casual confession: "I have to admit, I didn't know all the differences between these things before I got into government, and then got into it and understood that Medicaid is the health care program for the poor, by and large," Mr. Romney said.
He wrapped up his town hall, and headed to the airport to catch a chartered flight to South Carolina, where he is scheduled to appear at a fire station rally with South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, who endorsed him Friday morning on "Fox and Friends." But by the time the Romney campaign touched down in South Carolina, a mini-firestorm awaited them in their e-mail inboxes.
The Democratic National Committee pounced on Mr. Romney's remarks, using them to paint him as removed from everyday voters, and organizing a conference call to rebut what they called his "out of touch Medicaid comments."
"One has to wonder how Mitt Romney thinks he can represent American workers, their families and seniors when his concern for the poor and the middle class comes across like an afterthought," said the committee's chairwoman, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, in an e-mail statement. "A clear example of this was when he admitted today that he didn't understand the difference between entitlements such as Medicare and Medicaid until he got into government some three or four decades after they were established."
When reporters pressed the Romney campaign on the comments, they clarified that what Mr. Romney meant was that, until he ran for Senate in 1994, he didn't know all of the nuanced distinctions between Medicare and Medicaid, but he was certainly aware of both programs and understood how they worked. Mr. Romney himself added that he had run a health-care consultancy, and was aware of how the programs functions, even if he didn't know all of particular differences.
"Democrats are continuing their campaign of distortion and distraction because President Obama's policies have failed the middle class in America," said Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman, in an e-mail statement. "He has burdened future generations with massive amounts of debt and the worst job market in decades. President Obama and his allies do not want run against Mitt Romney and be forced to defend three years of failure. Instead of focusing on out-of-control spending and record unemployment, President Obama and his political machine are focused on campaigning to try and tear down Mitt Romney."

        
A Busy Day for Romney
        
Romney Holds Fire Against Gingrich in Debate
        
Nikki Haley Endorses Mitt Romney
        
Romney Would Like to See 'Book of Mormon'
        
Romney and Gingrich, a Contrast in Styles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); MEDICAID (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CAUCUSES (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE (71%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%) Medicaid; mitt romney; Romney, Mitt; Schultz, Debbie Wasserman; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; South Carolina; The Caucus

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%) Democratic Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); NIKKI HALEY (54%) Romney, Mitt; Schultz, Debbie Wasserman

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011



725 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Accuses Former Chiefs of Freddie and Fannie of Deception

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities and Exchange Commission contends the former chiefs, and four other Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives, did not adequately disclose their companies' exposure to risky mortgages. 

 BODY:
9:30 p.m. | Updated 
Regulators have accused the former chief executives of the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of misleading investors about their firms' exposure to risky mortgages, one of the most significant federal actions taken against those at the center of the housing bust.
 The lawsuits filed Friday against the two chief executives and four other top executives are an aggressive move by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and come after a three-year investigation.
 The agency has come under fire for not pursuing top Wall Street and mortgage industry executives who contributed to the financial crisis. In cases contending the deceptive marketing of securities tied to mortgages, the S.E.C. has been criticized for citing only midlevel bankers while settling with the Wall Street firms themselves. Recently, the agency drew criticism from a federal judge after allowing Citigroup to settle a fraud case without conceding wrongdoing.
On Friday, S.E.C. officials trumpeted their actions in the Fannie and Freddie case as part of a renewed effort to crack down on wrongdoing at the highest levels of Wall Street and corporate America.
"All individuals, regardless of their rank or position, will be held accountable for perpetuating half-truths or misrepresentations about matters materially important to the interest of our country's investors," said Robert S. Khuzami, the agency's enforcement chief. "Investors were robbed of the opportunity to make informed investment decisions."
He noted that the agency had now filed 38 separate actions stemming from the 2008 financial crisis.
 The former Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives have vowed to challenge the government, saying that the companies repeatedly disclosed the breakdowns of their loan portfolios.
As companies that fed both the housing bubble and Wall Street's appetite for risk, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac came under investigation quickly by federal agencies amid the financial crisis in 2008. But Freddie Mac disclosed this summer that the Justice Department's inquiry into the company had ended without any charges. And the S.E.C stopped short of bringing actions against the two companies.
Instead, agreements with Fannie and Freddie will allow the now government-controlled companies to evade prosecution and fines so long as they cooperate with authorities. The deal does not require approval from a federal court, unlike the proposed settlement with Citigroup.
 The case against the former executives, including Daniel H. Mudd, the former chief executive of Fannie Mae, and Richard F. Syron, the former chief of Freddie Mac, centers on a series of disclosures the firms made to investors at the height of the mortgage boom. The government contends that the firms played down the extent of their exposure to subprime mortgages, loans doled out to the riskiest of borrowers.
One S.E.C. complaint contends that Freddie Mac executives falsely proclaimed that the company had virtually no exposure to ultra-risky loans, despite internal warnings admonishing against such claims.
A separate complaint contends that Fannie Mae executives described subprime loans as those made to individuals "with weaker credit histories" while only reporting one-tenth of the loans that met that criteria in 2007. Both complaints were filed in the United States District Court in Manhattan.
Mr. Mudd, who was chief executive of Fannie Mae from 2005 until the government took control of the company in 2008, said that there had been no deception. 
"The government reviewed and approved the company's disclosures during my tenure, and through the present," he said in a statement. "Now it appears that the government has negotiated a deal to hold the government, and government-appointed executives who have signed the same disclosures since my departure, blameless - so that it can sue individuals it fired years ago."
The S.E.C.'s commitment to the long-running investigation - more than 100 depositions were produced over its course - highlights the major roles that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac played in the financial crisis and subsequent government bailout. The Bush administration took over the teetering mortgage giants in September 2008, and taxpayers have since pumped more than $150 billion into the two companies. The Obama administration has vowed to wind them down, although the timeline remains unclear.
The case against the former mortgage executives resembles an earlier action against one of the nation's biggest lenders to risky, or subprime, borrowers. Angelo Mozilo, the former chief executive and founder of Countrywide Financial, agreed to pay $22.5 million to settle federal charges along the same lines. The settlement was the largest ever levied against a senior executive of a public company, though Mr. Mozilo, who also agreed to forfeit $45 million in gains, neither admitted to nor denied wrongdoing.
Success for the S.E.C. in the Fannie and Freddie case will largely hinge on the meaning of the word subprime, which the government itself has never fully defined. While the term often refers to borrowers with low credit scores, Fannie and Freddie decided to classify loans as prime or subprime based on the lender type, not the borrower's credit score. A Wall Street bank, for instance, was usually considered a prime lender, despite extending subprime loans.
But the government's complaint contends that this kind of disclosure masked risk. Loans not considered subprime often defaulted at higher rates than those classified as subprime.
 The government contends that the executives were less than forthcoming about that extra layer of risk. Mr. Syron told an investor conference in May 2007 that the company had "basically no subprime business."
 But a lower-level executive at the firm, who reviewed Mr. Syron's speech in advance, warned that such a statement could be misleading.
 "We need to be careful how we word this. Certainly our portfolio includes loans that under some definitions would be considered subprime," the employee said, according to the complaint. "We should reconsider making as sweeping a statement."
 Mr. Mudd, meanwhile, testifying before Congress in April 2007, broadly defined subprime as "the description of a borrower who doesn't have perfect credit." But at the same hearing, he told lawmakers that "less than 2.5 percent of our book of business can be defined as subprime," which the complaint says greatly understated the firm's exposure based on his definition that day. Mr. Mudd's estimate omitted some $50 billion in subprimelike loans, according to the complaint.
 Lawyers for the executives, however, plan to argue that the firms did in fact disclose minute details of their loan portfolios, suggesting a potential weakness in the case. During the period under scrutiny, the companies produced "monster charts" breaking down their loan portfolios by borrowers' credit scores and how much equity they had in their homes, among other information.
Lawyers for Mr. Syron called the S.E.C.'s case "fatally flawed" and "without merit."
"Simply stated, there was no shortage of meaningful disclosures, all of which permitted the reader to assess the degree of risk in Freddie Mac's guaranteed portfolio," Thomas C. Green and Mark D. Hopson, partners at Sidley Austin, said in the statement.
The lawyers note that even the federal government never settled on a definitive meaning for subprime. Indeed, in a 2007 document, multiple federal agencies declined to define it.
Lawyers for two of the other executives named in the suit have also promised to fight the allegations.
The complaints also name Fannie's former risk officer, Enrico Dallavecchia; an executive vice president for Fannie, Thomas A. Lund; Patricia L. Cook, Freddie's former chief business officer; and its executive vice president, Donald J. Bisenius.
Still, Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron are the two most prominent subjects of the complaint.
Since August 2009, Mr. Mudd has been chief executive of the Fortress Investment Group, the large publicly traded private equity and hedge fund company.
Mr. Syron is a former president of the American Stock Exchange and currently an adjunct professor and trustee at Boston College.

        
S.E.C. Fraud Case Casts Dark Cloud Over Fortress
        
Settlement Said to Be Near for Fannie and Freddie

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); EXECUTIVES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); JUDGES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Daniel H. Mudd; Fannie Mae; Fortress Investment Group; Freddie Mac; Mortgages; Richard F. Syron; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Khuzami, Robert S; Mudd, Daniel H; Syron, Richard F; Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae); Freddie Mac|FMCC|OTCBB; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); CITIGROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%) Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae); Freddie Mac; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%) Freddie Mac; FMCC; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (89%); RICHARD F SYRON (89%) Khuzami, Robert S; Mudd, Daniel H; Syron, Richard F

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



726 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Group Clears Path for a Third-Party Ticket

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: Courtesy of a group called Americans Elect, an independent candidate could enter the race all but guaranteed nationwide ballot access. 

 BODY:
To those who bemoan the lack of better choices in presidential elections, third-party fantasies come easily at this stage in a campaign. End hyper-partisanship and Washington dysfunction: Vote Bloomberg-Petraeus in 2012! 
Those dreams are even more vivid than usual this time around, and not just because polls show striking levels of discontent within both parties about politics as usual. 
The most immediate practical impediment to independent and third-party bids has always been the difficulty of getting on the ballot in all 50 states, a complex process that requires substantial time, money and organization. Ross Perot managed it in 1992 and got almost 19 percent of the popular vote despite dropping out at one point; Ralph Nader was on 44 state ballots in 2000, including, fatefully, Florida, where the election was decided in George W. Bush's favor by 537 votes. 
In 2012, courtesy of a group called Americans Elect, some lucky independent candidate will have the chance to enter the race all but guaranteed nationwide ballot access. And as that fact - or threat - has begun to dawn on the Democratic and Republican establishments, it is setting off new chatter about the prospect for a high-profile unity ticket, or at least about someone emerging to play the role of national gadfly and potential spoiler for one party or the other.
"I think what is clear is they'll be on the ballot in most of these states, and it's going to be something we have to deal with," Jim Messina, President Obama's campaign manager, said of Americans Elect at a briefing this week on the White House's re-election strategy.
So far, Americans Elect has won ballot approval in 11 states and says it is within days of completing the process in California, the biggest electoral prize. It expects to complete gathering the necessary signatures by Dec. 31 for ballot petitions in all 30 of the states that allow the process to be completed this year; it anticipates no problem meeting the requirements in the remaining states next year.
"We're removing the barrier to entry, which is 50-state ballot access," said Elliot Ackerman, chief operating officer of Americans Elect.
Mr. Ackerman and other backers of the group said they were not out to help or hurt one party or the other. They said this is neither an effort to torpedo Mr. Obama by siphoning away moderates and independents nor a ploy to help him by splitting the anti-Obama vote. The group has no specific agenda other than offering voters a wider choice of candidates, its backers say, and is not a third party but a nominating process.
By its own account, the group is driven by civic-minded citizens who feel that moderates and independents have been disenfranchised by the tendency of the two parties play to their bases, especially in primaries, when independents cannot vote in many states. Its practical goal, beyond ballot access, is promote the selection of a presidential ticket via an online convention in June; the ticket would have to include a Democrat and a Republican, or a member of one party and an independent.
Those who have lent their names to the effort include Will Marshall, the president of the Progressive Policy Institute, the centrist Democratic research group; Christine Todd Whitman, the former governor of New Jersey and one of a dwindling band of moderate Republicans; Mark McKinnon, the strategist who guided Mr. Bush's message in 2000 and 2004 but backed Mr. Obama in 2008 and now says his interest is "anything that disrupts the current system," and Doug Schoen, a pollster who worked for Bill Clinton in the 1990s but is now frequently critical of Democrats.
"This is an effort to empower people," said Ms. Whitman. "This ticket could win, but at the least it could drive both parties toward the center."
But to some members of both parties, Americans Elect is a shadowy cabal financed by hedge fund money and undisclosed donors who could have a secret agenda to tilt the election one way or the other. 
While some of the big initial backers, including Mr. Ackerman's father, Peter Ackerman, a wealthy investor, have publicly acknowledged their contributions to the initial $35 million budget, others have not. And while the selection of a ticket will play out transparently via the online convention, the process also includes a provision for a committee to screen candidates who do not have traditional credentials in politics, business, the military and other fields, leading to accusations of potential skulduggery.
"It's kind of like uberdemocracy meets back-room bosses," said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's campaign strategist.
Among Republicans, the feeling that Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney would both be flawed candidates against Mr. Obama has led to another round of speculation about a late-entering candidate or a third-party bid. But even as they begin to pay more attention to Americans Elect, leaders in both parties are playing down the idea of a third-party candidacy.
"I don't expect a third-party campaign or candidacy in this election," Mr. Romney said in an interview with The New York Times on Wednesday. "There is such a feeling that President Obama has to be removed from the White House and we have to have someone who believes in American principles there again, that we'll come together."
Of course, Americans Elect could be wholly successful in creating the opportunity for a new, centrist ticket to emerge but still run into the difficult reality of convincing candidates of real stature and appeal to step forward and run against an incumbent Democratic president and the full force of a highly motivated Republican Party. 
Officials of the group say quiet outreach has begun to some potential candidates, and the names of some usual suspects are popping up. They start with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the Utah Republican, should his bid for his party's nomination fail. But the only candidate to declare a public interest so far is Buddy Roemer, a former governor of Louisiana whose effort to start a bid for the Republican nomination has faltered.
So while the process to enable creation of a centrist ticket is very real, the ticket itself remains very much in the dream stage.

        
Cain Pledges to Stay in Race
        
The Economy Isn't Obama's Only Challenge
        
Perry Tries to Recover From His 'Oops' Moment
        
The G.O.P. Campaign Goes On Unnoticed
        
The Value of Foreign Policy Victories for Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BALLOTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) 2012 presidential election; Americans Elect; independents; third party; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections; On Politics; The Caucus; The White House

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIM MESSINA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



727 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Fraud Case Casts Dark Cloud Over Fortress

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Fortress Investment Group faces a serious challenge after its chief, Daniel Mudd, the former head of Fannie Mae, was accused of fraudulently understating the mortgage giant's subprime exposure. 

 BODY:
9:02 p.m. | Updated 
When Daniel Mudd, the former head of Fannie Mae, joined Fortress Investment Group as chief executive in 2009, he was clouded by the government investigations into his previous employer.
On Friday, those clouds darkened after the Securities and Exchange Commission charged Mr. Mudd with securities fraud for allegedly understating Fannie's exposure to subprime mortgages. The commission also sued two other Fannie executives and three former officials at Freddie Mac.
"This morning, the S.E.C. filed a civil complaint against Dan Mudd, related to matters associated with his previous employment at Fannie Mae," said Gordon Runte, a Fortress spokesman. "The complaint does not relate to Fortress, and this matter has not impacted our company or our business operations. We are undertaking a thorough review of the matters addressed in the complaint."
Mr. Mudd denied the charge in a statement issued through his lawyer, Jamie Wareham.
"Every piece of material data about loans held by Fannie Mae was known to the United States government and to the investing public," said Mr. Mudd. "The S.E.C. is wrong, and I look forward to a court where fairness and reason - not politics - is the standard for justice."
While the civil charges have nothing to do with Mr. Mudd's conduct at Fortress, corporate governance experts say that the asset manager's directors have a difficult decision about whether to keep him at the helm. When the S.E.C. warned him earlier this year that it could file charges, Fortress's board stood behind him.
"There is no rule requiring him to step down, but it's a complicated situation," said Jill E. Fisch, a professor of corporate law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
"The board has to ask themselves whether this is a problem in terms of his integrity," she said. "Plus, there's the negative public relations associated with the case and the distraction of having to deal with the charges."
Fortress hired Mr. Mudd in July 2009, nearly a year after the government forced him out as Fannie's C.E.O. He succeeded Wesley Edens, the co-founder of Fortress and its largest shareholder. Bringing on Mr. Mudd freed up Mr. Edens and his top executives to focus on their private equity portfolios and hedge funds, which had been buffeted by the global financial crisis.
Fortress, which is based in New York, was started in 1998 by five former executives of Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs. It benefited from the industry's extraordinary growth over the last decade, and was the first large so-called alternative asset manager to sell its shares to the public. Its early 2007 I.P.O., and the sale of a minority stake to Nomura Holdings just before its offering, made Fortress's founders hundreds of millions of dollars.
Today, Fortress manages about $44 billion in assets. While the firm has recovered from the sharp downturn, several of its businesses have continued to struggle, including a "global macro" hedge fund that places bets on a range of investments around the globe, including United States stocks and Asian currencies.
The company's stock performance also continues to sag. On Friday afternoon, shares stood at $3.40, nearly the exact price that it traded at on the day the company announced Mr. Mudd's appointment.
Mr. Mudd, 52, is the son of Roger Mudd, the former television journalist. Earlier this month, at a Goldman Sachs investment conference, the Fortress chief spoke about the challenges facing Europe's economies and, more broadly, the political and regulatory uncertainty around the world.
"This is no joyful state of affairs for us as human beings, but it is actually a very good investment environment," he said. "Maybe the best we've seen in our lifetime."

        
S.E.C. Accuses Former Chiefs of Freddie and Fannie of Deception
        
Settlement Said to Be Near for Fannie and Freddie

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); LAWYERS (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Daniel H. Mudd; Daniel Mudd; Fannie Mae; Fortress Investment Group; Freddie Mac; Mortgages; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (58%); FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: NMR (NYSE) (58%); N33 (SGX) (58%); 8604 (TSE) (58%); FIG (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



728 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: WaMu's Settlement, the Cost of Law School and the Pain of the Financial Crisis

BYLINE: JEFF SOMMER


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen. 

 BODY:
The demise of Washington Mutual in 2008 was the biggest bank collapse in United States history.
But despite a settlement last week in the case, the bank's executives have not been held accountable for their company's disastrous performance, Gretchen Morgenson says in the new Weekend Business podcast and in her column in Sunday Business. She says that the settlement, with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, should be supplemented by further action by other agencies.
The top law schools are expensive, but should all law schools be? Accreditation requirements contribute to the high cost of many lower-tier schools, says David Segal, who reports on the issue on the cover of Sunday Business.
And in a separate conversation, Christina Romer, the University of California, Berkeley, economics professor who was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, says an aggressive policy response can blunt the severity of the downturn that comes after a financial crisis.
Expansionary monetary and fiscal policies by the Federal Reserve and the government are desirable in the current situation, she writes in the Economic View column in Sunday Business.
And in my Strategies column, which I discuss in the news section of the podcast, I point out that economic predictions have often been off-base over the last few years. Navigating the economy has been like driving in a dense fog. Caution is advised.
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: Gretchen Morgenson on WaMu's settlement (27:25); news headlines (21:41); the expenses of law school (19:08); Christina Romer on the financial crisis (10:05); and the week ahead (1:17).
As articles discussed in the podcast are published during the weekend, links will be added to this post.
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); PODCASTING (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ACCREDITATION (70%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHRISTINA ROMER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



729 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Debate Fact Check

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: New York Times reporters examined candidates' statements on Iran, immigration, the national debt and more, during the Republican presidential debate in Sioux City, Iowa. 

 BODY:
Obama and Debt
Mitt Romney said that under President Obama, the United States has "racked up as much debt as almost all of the other presidents combined."
But the numbers don't work. The national debt stood at $10.626 trillion on the day that President Obama took office. It now stands slightly above $15 trillion.
Mr. Romney has made this claim before and, when asked to defend it, his campaign has said that he is referring to a subset of the nation's total debt -- the portion of the debt that is owed to private investors. This excludes the portion of the debt borrowed from pots of government funds, like Social Security.
But those numbers don't work either. The debt held by private investors stood at $6.307 trillion on the day Mr. Obama took office. Today it stands at $10.393 trillion. 
Of course, Mr. Romney said "almost," and that means the statement is not actually false. The numbers work fine if one excludes the presidency of George W. Bush.
Mr. Romney also has sometimes made a slightly different claim that may also prove true: the debt will have doubled by the time Mr. Obama leaves office.
Mexico as Staging Ground for Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said that Iran, Hezbollah and Hamas "are using Mexico as a way to penetrate into the southern part of the United States."
He has suggested in the past that Hamas and Hezbollah are working in Mexico, and when asked for an explanation, his campaign has cited a recent report by the American Enterprise Institute. But the report makes no mention of Hamas -- the Palestinian militant group that controls Gaza -- in Mexico.
And a recent State Department report also said that there are no Hezbollah-related operational cells in this hemisphere. Hezbollah is the Shiite political and militant group in Lebanon that is backed by Iran and Syria.
The Mexican ambassador to the United States has also denied these claims.
Iran's Nuclear Program
Michele Bachmann and Ron Paul clashed over one of the most important foreign policy issues the next president will face: the possibility that Iran will build a nuclear weapon. Mr. Paul suggested that the International Atomic Energy Agency, part of the United Nations, had said there was "no evidence" that Iran was within a year of building a nuclear weapon. Ms. Bachmann asserted that the I.A.E.A. had said "literally Iran is within just months of being able to obtain that weapon," adding of Mr. Paul's statement that "nothing could be more dangerous than the comments that we just heard." In fact, while the agency's long-awaited report cited "credible" evidence that the Islamic republic had carried out "activities relevant to the development of a nuclear device," it did not say a weapon was months away.
Obama, Iran and the Drone
Mitt Romney accused President Obama of having said "pretty please" to Iran to return an American stealth drone that malfunctioned and landed on Iranian territory, and Rick Perry said a better choice would have been to destroy or retrieve the high-tech American aircraft to keep from revealing American technological secrets. In fact, American military officials considered an operation to retrieve the drone but rejected it as too dangerous, since it would require a sizeable force traveling more than 200 miles into the country and likely facing a large Iranian protection force. Mr. Obama did say of the drone at a news conference that "we have asked for it back" but suggested he did not expect that would happen. Iran mocked the request.
Bachmann and PolitiFact
Earlier in the debate, Mrs. Bachmann said that after Saturday's debate, the truth-squadding site PolitiFact "came out and said that everything that I said was true."
Well, not exactly.
In something of a meta-truth-squadding moment, PolitiFact disputed Mrs. Bachmann's claim on its fact-checking site:
In fact, Bachmann earned two ratings from us at that debate, a Mostly True for her claim that Newt Gingrich advocated for the individual mandate in health care and a Pants on Fire for her claim that Mitt Romney set up a health plan in Massachusetts that is "socialized medicine."
Fannie and Freddie, Today
Michele Bachmann described the mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as "the epicenter of the mortgage financial meltdown" and called for the companies to be shut down.
Fannie and Freddie provide money for mortgage lending by purchasing loans from banks and other lenders, then packaging those loans into securities for sale to investors. Crucially, they guarantee that investors will not lose money if borrowers fail to repay the loans.
That has proved an expensive guarantee. The companies ran out of money in 2008 and the government was forced to take control. So far the bailout has cost taxpayers more than $150 billion.
But the companies also now provide funding for about two-thirds of new mortgage loans. And while private investors might be willing to take their place, it is not likely that the private market will offer the same generous terms that Americans have come to expect.
In particular, as I wrote earlier this year, it might become very difficult to get a 30-year loan with a fixed interest rate -- a product that has only ever been broadly available with government support.
The Budget Under Speaker Gingrich
Newt Gingrich has made a campaign theme out of how the economy improved when he was last in office, as speaker of the House in the 1990s. In his first answer, challenged about his conservative credentials, Mr. Gingrich said he was responsible for four consecutive balanced budgets and paid down $400 billion on the national debt.
But in only two years when he was speaker was the budget balanced, in fiscal 1998 and 1999. Although the government remained in the black for two more years, Mr. Gingrich left office in January 1999 and had no role in those later budgets. The total surplus when he was speaker was $194.9 billion, not $400 billion.
And it takes two to tango -- Mr. Gingrich didn't mention that these years of government surpluses were the result of policies that fostered an economic boom, many worked out with President Bill Clinton. Mr. Gingrich opposed a 1993 tax increase widely credited with helping to begin reducing the deficit.

        
Jacksonville Debate Fact Check
        
Tampa, Fla., Debate Fact-Check
        
Charleston, S.C., Debate Fact-Check
        
South Carolina Debate Fact Check
        
Fact Checking the Concord Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); HAMAS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); IMMIGRATION (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (84%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); RELIGION (62%) fact-check; Appelbaum, Binyamin; Bachmann, Michele M; Gingrich, Newt; Oppel, Richard A Jr; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Shane, Scott; Presidential Election of 2012; Hamas; Hezbollah; PolitiFact.com; Iowa; Elections

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (84%); HAMAS (84%) Hamas; Hezbollah; PolitiFact.com

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); RICK PERRY (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (87%); RON PAUL (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Appelbaum, Binyamin; Bachmann, Michele M; Gingrich, Newt; Oppel, Richard A Jr; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Shane, Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MEXICO (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012



730 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: In a Sign of Labor Recovery, More Workers Are Quitting

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE number of Americans quitting their jobs has begun to rise, albeit from a very low level. That is a tentative sign that labor market mobility, which plunged during the 2007-9 recession, has started to recover.
The Labor Department reported this week that 1.9 million workers resigned their jobs in October. In the two years from early 2009 through early this year, there was no month when that many workers quit. But the number has been exceeded eight times this year.
''Quits troughed in late 2009 or early 2010, '' said John Wohlford, the Bureau of Labor Statistics' branch chief for the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, known as Jolts. ''They have recovered some, but we are not anywhere near where we were before the recession.'' 
The accompanying charts show the trends in the number of new hires, resignations and dismissals in the private sector since the department began conducting the survey in 2000.
They show the high level of labor mobility that was taken for granted before the recession. Typically, the number of workers hired during a 12-month period equaled more than half the number who held jobs when the period began. The number of people quitting jobs was significantly larger than the number who were fired or laid off.
Some of that churn came from industries like construction, where jobs are typically for a limited time, until a project is completed. But a large part came from workers with permanent jobs seeking, and finding, what they viewed as better opportunities.
The rate of hiring began to fall in late 2005, well before the recession began, but did not plunge until the recession was well under way, when the credit crisis was taking hold. It has begun to recover -- in the latest 12 months the hiring rate was 42 percent, up from a low of less than 38 percent. But hiring remains far below levels before the downturn.
At the beginning of the recession, employers as a group were hesitant to lay off people, but firings accelerated as the downturn deepened, and for the first time since the survey began the number of people being fired exceeded the number resigning.
Now, the rate of layoffs is lower than at any time before the recession. But job growth has been slow because there has been only limited hiring.
A third category of departures, not shown in the charts, includes retirements as well as people leaving jobs because of death or disability. The number of such departures also fell during the recession, but has begun to recover.
The mortgage crisis may be one cause of a decline in mobility, as workers whose homes are not worth what they owe feel they cannot move to areas where better jobs may be available.
The fall in labor turnover may also have contributed to the sharp rise in the number of long-term unemployed, as well as to the stagnation of wage growth. In normal times, workers leaving lower-paying jobs for better positions would open up posts for those without work, and employers might need to raise wages to fill the positions with qualified people. But those mechanisms do not function if people are not leaving jobs voluntarily.
The survey also asks employers how many openings they currently have. That number has been rising, but slowly. The bottom chart shows that there are four times as many unemployed workers as there are job openings. That figure is coming down, but remains far above prerecession levels.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Few Are Fired, or Hired: The number of private sector workers who were laid off or discharged over the last 12 months is the lowest for any similar period since the government began collecting the statistics in 1990. The rate of hiring also remains low, but has improved since the recession ended in 2009. The number of workers quitting their jobs -- a sign of confidence that they can do better elsewhere -- has also risen. The number of job openings relative to the number of unemployed workers is down from the peak, but remains far above prerecession levels. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIGNATIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); STATISTICS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



731 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: In a Time of Giving, Learning When to Say No

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THIS is the time of year when you are asked for all sorts of donations. I always find the process moderately stressful, but not because my wife and I are agonizing over how much to give.
There are plenty of guides that tell you what to give to your mail carrier (not allowed to accept cash, and noncash gifts cannot exceed $20), your babysitter (one to two weeks' pay) and your doorman, if you live in an apartment building ($75 and up, but make sure it's not less than last year). My daughter just started preschool this year, so we have a whole new category on our list, and it includes items like gifts for teachers and meeting a request for the school's annual fund. But that was easy to solve. We just asked other parents what they gave.
But because these are not ordinary economic times, and a lot of people are unemployed or underemployed, some of the requests for money this year don't fit into a neat mathematical calculation. Should you respond with a gift? And how do you figure out the appropriate amount?
I thought it worthwhile to ask other people how they were handling this. I also wanted to quiz experts on the ethics and etiquette of giving. Here's what I learned. 
EMPATHY GIFTS Brian O'Connor, the director of marketing and public relations at Cunard, the cruise line, told me he noticed something different about the myriad requests he has been receiving for year-end donations: more friends asking for help.
''I've had the ask range from individual friends asking me on Facebook for help to others saying, 'I'm a little low on money, and I want to do something for the kids,' '' he said. ''That's tough.''
Such requests are what Elizabeth Franklin, the founder and chief executive of the Franklin Report, a high-end guide to service providers, calls ''empathy gifts.'' They are a direct response to the economic situation and the desire of someone with more to help someone with less.
Mrs. Franklin said a friend of hers gave a $1,000 tip to her hairdresser, who was struggling to put her children through school. She said the friend explained it this way, ''She's having a harder time making ends meet than I am.''
Melanie McGlade, who lives in Darien, Conn., did something more extreme. She canceled Christmas for her two sons, 12 and 17, and is giving the money she would have spent on their gifts to local charities that help impoverished children.
''My kids are mad,'' she said. ''They 100 percent understand it and get it, and they know it's the right thing. But it would be unnatural if they didn't complain a bit.''
Yet, she said, she reminded them that they get clothes when they need them throughout the year and will soon be taking a trip to Colorado. ''It's not like I'm locking them in a closet,'' she said.
While her children may be miffed, Joshua Perry, assistant professor of business law and ethics at the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University, said such a gesture could remind givers of their own good fortune.
''Sometimes it's helpful to have a dose of humility about the good fortune that many of us might enjoy,'' he said, ''and to recognize that over the course of a lifetime, a break in this or that other direction, and we could be that guy who is struggling.''
Mr. O'Connor said he planned to discreetly send checks to his friends who asked for help. ''I believe that there is a positive karma thing to keep money flowing in and around you, whether it's a heftier tip to a great server or that friend who is strapped to pay that electric bill.''
OBLIGATIONS Not all holiday requests are born of good will. Some feel like old-fashioned shakedowns.
That is the case with a trader at a bank, who asked not to be named for fear of losing her job. She received an e-mail this month listing what people at different levels should donate toward a holiday gift for the team's assistants. The amounts ranged from $100 to $250.
''Every holiday, it's how much money do you give to all these different people, from teachers to work colleagues,'' she said. ''It would be better if it was discretionary.''
Her boss had no sympathy for her argument and essentially told her to fall into line, she said. ''Why am I giving to a colleague and not to the Starbucks guy who at least remembers what kind of coffee I like?''
Anna Post, Emily Post's great-great-granddaughterand the co-author of the just-published 18th edition of ''Emily Post's Etiquette'' (HarperCollins), said a person in this situation was out of luck.
''There are some things that can't be solved except from the top,'' she said. ''Opting into a culture is important, whether or not you agree with all the finer points. You have to do what they do. It's going to be pretty tough for you if you try to opt out of it.''
Kristin Hanson, a jewelry designer in New York, views requests from customers, vendors and friends as part of doing business. This year, she moved her design studio and jewelry school from Brooklyn to TriBeCa in Manhattan, and said she knew she needed to ingratiate herself into the new neighborhood. But as the requests streamed in, she said she felt overwhelmed and had to step back and assess them.
She decided to give to people she had relationships with through the year, whether they asked her to buy a ticket to a benefit or to donate her space for an event.
''I have to take care of my inside people,'' Ms. Hanson said. But for others, she added, ''You definitely have to say no because you have no choice.''
FATIGUE All of these requests can seem too much -- and expensive.
An investment adviser in Los Angeles with three children said he had already been to 15 parties in which he was expected to give a toy with a suggested value of at least $25. He has about 10 more of these parties to go.
''I sliced everything in half,'' said the adviser who asked not to be named because his wife was an actress and he did not want to jeopardize their relationships. ''Why? The number of people asking for an unwrapped toy went up 300 percent. From a budget perspective, I couldn't fulfill every unwrapped toy.''
Zach Merck, a real estate consultant outside of Denver, said his fatigue was not limited to the holiday seasons. He said the requests throughout the year from his son's school wore on him, yet he still gave.
''Sometimes the intent is very good, but I think there hasn't been a lot of thought put into it,'' he said. ''I wish it was not as frequent of an occurrence.''
This is where the professionals say it is all right to say no.
''There is no obligation to explain your budget to someone or apologize for what you've given,'' Ms. Post said. ''When you're saying no, believe me, you're not going to be their only no.''
Still, none of us should be surprised by the flood of holiday appeals. ''People ask so much of us around the holiday season because we procrastinate,'' said Melissa Berman, president and chief executive of Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors, which advises donors.
And that is why she suggests a more measured approach. ''Charity is about your heart and your soul, but you can also use your head,'' she said. ''That means having time to think and plan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kristin Hanson, chief of Kristin Hanson Jewelry in TriBeCa, said she had no choice but to turn down requests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (88%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (73%); CHARITIES (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ETHICS (65%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (64%); CHILD POVERTY (62%); CRUISES (50%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



732 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Commodities Companies Help Lift Markets

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stock indexes were mixed on Friday as gains among commodity producers helped overcome debt-crisis concerns prompted by Fitch Ratings' warning that it might cut ratings of European nations.
Halliburton and Chevron paced the gains among energy companies. Banking shares in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.2 percent as a group, trimming an earlier rally. Research in Motion fell 11 percent after the company delayed the release of a new generation of BlackBerry devices. Zynga, the largest maker of games for Facebook, declined 5 percent in its first day of trading.
''We're seeing a market in which there's very little long-term investor interest,'' said David Kelly, chief market strategist for J. P. Morgan Funds in New York. ''Europe is still dodging all the major decisions it needs to make in order to fix the problem and I think that the disappointment in that is still dogging the markets right now.'' 
The S.& P. 500 rose 0.3 percent to 1,219.66, after jumping as much as 1.3 percent earlier. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 2.42 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,866.39. The Nasdaq composite index rose 14.32 points, to 2,555.33.
The S.& P. 500 lost 2.8 percent this week. It slumped Dec. 13 after the Federal Reserve refrained from taking new actions to bolster growth, saying the American economy was maintaining its expansion even as the global economy slowed.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 17/32, to 101 11/32. The yield fell to 1.85 percent, from 1.91 percent late Thursday.
Stocks trimmed an early rally after Fitch Ratings lowered France's rating outlook to negative and put the grades of Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus on review for a downgrade, citing Europe's failure to find a ''comprehensive solution'' to the debt crisis. It also said all investment-grade countries in the euro region rated below AAA were subject to a review, which Fitch expects to complete by the end of January.
Moody's Investors Service said on Dec. 12 that it would review the ratings of all European Union countries after a summit meeting of leaders last week did little to ease pressure on the governments in Europe. S.& P. placed the ratings of 15 nations, including France and Germany, on review for possible downgrade on Dec. 5.
Energy and raw material companies advanced among groups in the S.& P. 500. Chevron added 1.2 percent to $100.86. Halliburton jumped 1.6 percent to $31.76.
Banks climbed, as Wells Fargo jumped 1.4 percent to $25.98 and JPMorgan Chase rose 0.4 percent to $31.89. Bank of America lost 1.14 percent to $5.20.
Friday was the expiration of futures and options contracts on indexes and individual stocks, an event known as quadruple witching, which occurs once every three months.
Adobe Systems, the largest maker of graphic-design software, rose the most in the S.& P. 500 after saying first-quarter sales forecast beat some estimates, lifted by demand for tools that design Web pages and create online video. The stock advanced 6.6 percent to $28.20.
Research in Motion dropped 11 percent to $13.44 after saying a new generation of BlackBerrys designed to fuel a comeback would not be out until the latter part of 2012. The smartphone maker, which originally planned to release the new devices in the first quarter of next year, also gave sales and profit forecasts that missed analysts' estimates.
Cablevision Systems, the cable television provider, tumbled 8.5 percent to $12.75. Its chief operating officer, Tom Rutledge, will step down this month for undisclosed reasons. Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, called it a ''staggering loss'' for the company.
The Consumer Price Index last month was unchanged, after a 0.1 percent decline the previous month, a report from the Labor Department showed. That supported the Federal Reserve's view that inflation remains in check.
The November figure compares with a 0.1 percent increase forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 82 economists.
So-called core prices, which exclude food and energy costs, rose 0.2 percent, more than forecast, reflecting higher medical care and clothing costs.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); DEBT NOTES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (84%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (79%); CYPRUS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



733 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofit Companies Enjoying, Well, Profits

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
By Sunday, when the critically acclaimed Broadway drama ''Venus in Fur'' closes at Manhattan Theater Club's Samuel J. Friedman Theater after a two-month run, many of the club's 15,000 subscribers will have seen the play. Normally, that would be that: Unlike commercial producers, who aim to enrich themselves with long-running hits, Manhattan Theater Club is a nonprofit that seeks to open (and close) several shows each year for subscribers and others.
This week, however, club executives announced that they were teaming up with commercial producers to move ''Venus in Fur'' to another, bigger Broadway house and resume performances in February. In doing so, the company can win three ways: making money from the transfer, attracting new subscribers who like what they see, and keeping the play -- and its acclaimed leading lady, Nina Arianda -- in the minds of Tony Award voters in the spring. 
Asked to square this commercial venture, the club's second (the first was ''Time Stands Still''), with its nonprofit mission, its executive producer, Barry Grove, said in an interview: ''We're still feeling the aftereffects from the 2008 economic downturn, so we're looking for ways to generate revenue to support the theater company. Here you have a risky new play that became a hit, and we're trying to maximize that to benefit the artists as well as M.T.C.''
While money is tight these days for nonprofit theaters nationwide -- with Intiman Theater in Seattle becoming the latest to face closing, amid heavy debts -- New York's major nonprofits are financially stable by comparison, their leaders say. But they are becoming more aggressive about producing work that can sell tickets, as a hedge against the unpredictability of private donations and subscription renewals.
As a result, Broadway's three nonprofit companies -- the others are Lincoln Center Theater and Roundabout Theater Company -- look more like profit-making, Tony-seeking hit factories these days.
Off Broadway, too, nonprofits like the Public Theater are making moves to bring back popular shows or mount open-ended productions: not only by moving seeming hits to Broadway, as it did with ''Hair'' in 2009, but also by scheduling downtown successes like ''Gatz'' for return engagements.
Not so long after Lincoln Center Theater's two-and-a-half-year run of ''South Pacific'' on its Broadway stage, the Beaumont, it has another welcome occupant, the Tony-winning puppet drama ''War Horse,'' which has grossed more than $35 million in the last 39 weeks. And the nonprofit has another hit on its hands with ''Other Desert Cities,'' a new play by Jon Robin Baitz, which opened on Broadway at the Booth Theater this fall and is likely to run through the Tony Awards season this spring, longer than most plays at nonprofit theaters.
Andre Bishop, artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, said that the company needed such successes to balance financial losses, like those from its 2010 productions of ''Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown'' and ''Free Man of Color.''
''An important point here is that, unlike commercial producers, none of us at Lincoln Center Theater are personally making money off of these shows,'' said Mr. Bishop, who noted that his compensation (about $482,000 a year) is not tied to mounting hits. ''Successful shows help pay for more shows, and for priorities like our new LCT3 theater,'' a black box under construction at Lincoln Center that will focus on new work.
Roundabout executives, meanwhile, announced this week that they would produce a national tour next year of their hit Broadway revival, ''Anything Goes'' -- the sort of endeavor usually undertaken by commercial producers. Roundabout has done a national tour only once before, of ''Twelve Angry Men'' from 2006 to 2008, which proved so successful that revenues helped the theater start its critically praised Roundabout Underground program, which has enjoyed critical praise.
The Broadway production of ''Anything Goes,'' meanwhile, has become a long-running money-maker that has made Roundabout's Stephen Sondheim Theater unavailable for other shows by the company. (Roundabout has two other Broadway theaters, one of which, Studio 54, has been unoccupied this season while undergoing renovations.)
Harold Wolpert, managing director of Roundabout, echoed his colleagues at other nonprofit theaters in saying that his company was not in the business of making money, but rather seeking only to bring its work to the widest possible audience. He added that he had not heard any complaints from Roundabout subscribers about the Sondheim Theater's being monopolized by ''Anything Goes.''
''I think our subscribers were excited to get to see the show early and up close,'' Mr. Wolpert said. ''And I think the tour will serve another purpose, in showing that we don't believe geography should be a barrier to people seeing our work.''
In interviews with the nonprofits' subscribers and audience members, no one raised a fuss about open-ended bookings. Still, some wondered if hit productions were taking priority over new work.
''I can appreciate longer runs because it gives me a chance to see a play that might otherwise close after a six-week run, but I so worry about new plays that are getting crowded out,'' said Kathy Flynn, who subscribes to both Manhattan Theater Club and the Public Theater. ''I used to think that these nonprofit theaters were all about producing new plays. Now they seem to be in the hit business.''
Veteran theater executives noted that the nonprofits were not doing anything wrong under federal rules for tax-exempt theaters.
''As long as the organizations aren't putting themselves at financial risk, and are plowing the money back into the organization, I don't see a problem,'' said Howard Sherman, a former executive director of the American Theater Wing, which helps oversee the Tonys and runs education programs. ''Artistically, it's only a problem if the nonprofit is making all decisions in an effort to appeal to the lowest common denominator of audience in order to have the longest possible run.''
The Public Theater's artistic director, Oskar Eustis, found himself with two empty stages for early 2012 when one play was pushed back until the fall, and another play, ''Chinglish,'' went to Broadway. So he opted for encores of two recent hits, ''Gatz,'' a seven-hour-long adaptation of ''The Great Gatsby,'' and ''The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs,'' a one-man critique of Apple's business practices.
''Both works are by downtown artists who are now gaining a wider following as a result of their runs at the Public, and more people still want to see these shows,'' he said. ''Now, if we're ever in a situation where we're holding up a major nonprofit stage for a year or two with a single show, you should complain to me.''
Asked if that comment was a poke at Lincoln Center Theater's commitment to ''War Horse'' and ''South Pacific,'' he replied: ''It's their choice about what they do. I have immense respect for those folks.''
Mr. Bishop, of Lincoln Center Theater, noted that the theater's membership program did not guarantee a certain number of shows.
Staging major new work on Broadway, or undertaking commercial transfers there, has been a mixed bag for nonprofit theaters. The Public Theater, for example, took in millions of dollars from the 15-year run of ''A Chorus Line'' but also lost money on Broadway productions like ''The Wild Party'' and ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson.''
As for plays like ''War Horse'' and ''Venus in Fur,'' the nonprofits have commercial producing partners who helped shoulder the risk of staging relatively unknown works that lacked star actors. Executives at Lincoln Center Theater and Manhattan Theater Club declined to discuss the specifics of the business arrangement. (Manhattan Theater Club's ''Time Stands Still'' closed in January in the red.) The lead commercial producer of ''Venus in Fur,'' Jon B. Platt, acknowledged that the nonprofit theaters were ''a safer and advantageous way to start a new play on Broadway,'' given their built-in subscriber audience. (''Venus'' first ran Off Broadway last year at another nonprofit, Classic Stage Company.)
''Months ago we thought about going straight to a commercial Broadway theater, but partnering with Manhattan Theater Club helped limit our financial risk and see if the play could attract an audience in a nonprofit Broadway house,'' Mr. Platt said. ''It worked. M.T.C. really gave us a head of steam to move into a commercial run.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, ''Venus in Fur,'' with Nina Arianda and Hugh Dancy
''War Horse''
and ''Anything Goes,'' with Colin Donnell and Sutton Foster. All are successes for nonprofit theater companies.(C1)
 From left, Lincoln Center Theater's ''Other Desert Cities'' is enjoying Broadway success, while ''The Agony and Ecstasy of Steve Jobs,'' with Mike Daisey, and ''Gatz'' have returned to the Public. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



734 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Indian Point: The Next Fukushima?

BYLINE: By VICTOR GILINSKY. 
Victor Gilinsky, an energy consultant, was a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission from 1975 to 1984.

 BODY:
Santa Monica, Calif.
NINE months after an earthquake and tsunami destroyed the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Japan and set off the world's worst radiation crisis since Chernobyl, the Japanese government finally announced on Friday that the plant's reactors had been stabilized.
But federal regulators have yet to absorb the lessons from this crisis. The owners of the Indian Point nuclear plant in Westchester County, 25 miles north of New York City, are asking the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to extend their operating licenses for 20 years. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo strongly opposes those renewals. 
However unlikely, the possibility of a major meltdown at a plant in the United States can't be dismissed. And yet Gregory B. Jaczko, the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, told Bloomberg last week that there would be enough time for millions of people in the region to get away ''because nuclear accidents do develop slowly, they do develop over time, and we saw that at Fukushima.''
But even if that were true, many might never be able to return. Some 160,000 Japanese are still displaced because the radioactive contamination -- in an area far less populated and less dense than the New York area -- was so intense and far-reaching. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission's cost-benefit analyses for Indian Point and other nuclear plants in the United States do not factor in these possibilities. The consequences of land contamination should be weighed in any decision to re-license the plant's two reactors, which are up for renewal in 2013 and 2015.
The reason the contamination is so long-lasting is that Cesium 137, the most dangerous isotope released in a severe accident, has a half-life of 30 years. A contaminated area -- one that was, say, four times above the maximum permissible post-accident radiation level for human habitation -- would stay above that level for nearly a human lifetime.
The standard for a mandatory evacuation at Fukushima was set at about 20 times the maximum radiation level allowed for normal operation. That is not a life-threatening level, but it is high enough that the International Commission on Radiation Protection warns against year-round human habitation.
Hundreds of square miles around Chernobyl, site of a meltdown in 1986, are still off-limits. The Japanese evacuated a comparable area northwest of the Fukushima site. It's not practical to decontaminate an area that large, and few people are going to want to live there even if they are allowed to.
Dr. Jaczko said it was unlikely that a nuclear accident would require prompt action beyond ''more than a few miles.'' That might be correct in terms of avoiding immediate health effects from radiation (though after Fukushima, he advised United States citizens in Japan to stay at least 50 miles away from the reactors). But his remark does not begin to capture the human and economic devastation in Japan. At Fukushima, some areas more than 25 miles from the reactors were contaminated beyond the mandatory evacuation level.
The lack of attention to possible land contamination is a major gap in the American system of nuclear safety regulation. After Fukushima, it should be the main safety concern -- and one that is not addressed by evacuation, no matter how efficient.
A severe accident at Indian Point, whose two reactors opened in 1974 and 1976, is a remote but real possibility. We've had two severe accidents with large releases of radioactivity in the past. The Chernobyl accident was dismissed in Western countries on the grounds that it was the product of Soviet sloppiness and ''couldn't happen here.'' But the Fukushima accident involved reactors built to American designs.
The essential characteristic of this technology is that the reactor's uranium fuel -- about 100 tons in a typical plant -- melts quickly without cooling water. The containment structures surrounding the reactors -- even the formidable-looking domes at Indian Point -- were not designed to hold melted fuel because safety regulators 40 years ago considered a meltdown impossible.
They were wrong, and we now know that radioactive material in the melted fuel can escape to contaminate a very large area for decades or more. It doesn't make sense to allow such a threat to persist a half-hour's drive from our nation's largest city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (89%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (88%); TSUNAMIS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



735 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Despite Delay, the 100-Watt Bulb Is on Its Way Out

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Ian Lovett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The law to phase out traditional incandescent light bulbs was promoted as a simple, almost painless, change when Congress first passed it. By requiring that light bulbs use at least 25 percent less electricity, starting in 2012, the nation would use less energy, manufacturers would invent more efficient types of bulbs and the planet would be spared millions of tons of carbon emissions every year.
But the traditional light bulb -- that lowly orb of glass, filament and threaded metal base -- has become a powerful emotional symbol, conjuring both consumer anxiety over losing a familiar and flattering light source and political antipathy to government meddling.
On Friday, the House voted to delay enforcement of the new standards until at least Oct. 1, with the Senate expected to agree, as part of a last-minute budget deal to keep the government operating through the rest of the fiscal year. Republicans have vowed to press for a full repeal of the new rules. 
''This was one of those things that resonated with a lot of people, especially in the election of 2010, where so much personal liberty had been eroded,'' said Representative Michael C. Burgess, Republican of Texas, a state that recently passed a law to exempt bulbs made and sold within its borders from the federal standards. ''The light bulb was what put a public face on it. People got it when you said, 'Well, why should the federal government restrict my freedom on what type of light I use?' ''
Yet in some ways, despite all the heated rhetoric and political brinksmanship, the delay hardly matters. The looming possibility of the new standards, signed into law by President Bush in 2007 -- and the fact that places like Europe, Australia, Brazil and China have already put similar measures in place or intend to do so -- has transformed the industry. A host of more efficient products already line store shelves and poke out of light sockets.
''Bottom line, the standards are moving forward unabated,'' said Noah Horowitz, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has promoted the standards. Calling the delay in enforcement a ''speed bump,'' he added, ''Incandescent light bulbs are not going away due to the standard, they are just getting better. The new ones that meet the standard will use 28 percent less power and look and perform exactly like the old one.''
Many of the alternatives to incandescent bulbs are more expensive. But industry executives, government officials and environmental advocates say they often last longer and save money by reducing electric bills. Traditional incandescent bulbs, which essentially use the same technology as Thomas Edison's original lights, waste most of their energy by converting it to heat instead of light. That problem is largely remedied in newer technologies like compact fluorescent lights (C.F.L.'s) and light-emitting diodes (L.E.D.'s).
Although demand for energy-efficient bulbs is growing among customers attracted by the bottom-line savings, incandescent bulbs still dominate the market.
At Home Depot, which like other leading retailers has developed a house line of energy-saving lights, 60 percent of sales are standard incandescents, 25 percent are compact fluorescents, 10 percent are halogen incandescents (which meet the new efficiency standards) and 5 percent are L.E.D.'s., according to Jean Niemi, a company spokeswoman.
Advocates for the new rules point to California, which adopted the national standards a year early. Consumer anxiety there seemed to fizzle once the law went into effect.
''January 1 came and people were able to go out and buy light bulbs,'' said Adam Gottlieb, a spokesman for the California Energy Commission. ''There was no light bulb apocalypse.''
Industry executives say they have not found evidence of hoarding or runs on incandescents in California -- although that may be because merchants stockpiled 100-watt bulbs, which are still widely available for sale.
At Light Bulbs Unlimited in Los Angeles on Friday, for instance, a sign in the window declared, ''Outlawed! Light Bulbs, 100 Watt, Going Fast,'' with an exhortation to ''Stock up now,'' and a 20 percent case discount offer.
Outside the store, many of the shoppers still knew little about the changing standards, although an employee said cases of 100-watt bulbs had been selling fast all year, as people like Philip Miller came in for more bulbs.
''We have been stocking up, but I think I need to stock up more,'' Mr. Miller said. He called the new standards intrusive. ''It's another invasion of personal liberty by our government,'' he said.
And Tony Ragonese, a sales associate at Bulbman in Reno, across the state border in Nevada, said the store's sales of 100-watt bulbs had increased by at least 50 percent over the last year, with many of the customers Californians.
Much of the public opposition has been over the color of the light that comes from compact fluorescent bulbs, which are the cheapest alternative to the traditional light bulb. Fluorescent light is generally perceived as more harsh than incandescent light.
Shaun Cooper, a furniture dealer who stopped by a Home Depot in Midtown Manhattan on Friday to buy the lower-watt incandescent bulbs he favors, said he found the light from C.F.L.'s to be too cool.
''I buy and sell furniture so I'm really into the quality of the light,'' he said. ''It sounds stupid, but you go into someone's house and you're seated in the living room and you're next to a lamp with one of those, whatever they're called, C.F.L.'s -- it's just a pretty bad experience.''
Although manufacturers are trying to improve the C.F.L., the future may lie in light-emitting diodes, which come closer to mimicking incandescent light and last far longer than the alternatives -- some 25,000 hours, compared to around 1,000 for incandescents and 10,000 for C.F.L.'s. Although L.E.D.'s are much more expensive than other types of bulbs, costing $10 to $30 each, prices are falling.
Still, industry executives say that consumers need to get away from the idea that bulbs should be cheap, disposable and assessed by their wattage.
''It's kind of like purchasing an appliance, where there's a little bit more consideration that goes into the purchase,'' said Peter Soares, director of consumer marketing at Philips, a major bulb maker. He said consumers should look at how long the bulb will last, whether it is Energy Star-rated for efficiency and ultimately, ''how much is it going to cost me to run this thing versus other models?''
Changing mind-sets will take a while, Mr. Soares said, but he predicted that L.E.D.'s would soon make up 10 percent of the value of bulbs sold -- a figure lifted by their high price, but up essentially from zero two years ago.
So far, many customers remain skeptical. Ciaran Cassidy, a building contractor who lives in Westchester County, N.Y., said Friday that he did not trust that the alternatives to incandescents would work as advertised, either in terms of longevity or in his electric bills.
''I'm looking for an economically efficient bulb,'' he said, eyeing a $15.97 L.E.D. bulb at Home Depot. Noting that it was rated for more than 22 years of life, he wondered: ''When the thing burns out after five years, what are you supposed to do? Am I supposed keep that receipt for that one bulb?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Light bulbs, including compact fluorescents, in Manhattan. (B1)
 Light bulbs at a Home Depot in Manhattan. A Congressional vote would delay rules for incandescents until October. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); EMISSIONS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL C BURGESS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



736 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Inconvenient Income Inequality

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW. 
Joe Nocera is off today.

 BODY:
Is income inequality becoming the new global warming? In other words, is this another case where the facts of an existential threat lose traction among a weary American public as deniers attempt to reduce them to partisan opinions? 
It's beginning to seem so.
A Gallup poll released on Thursday found that, after rising rather steadily for the past two decades, the percentage of Americans who said that the country is divided into ''haves'' and ''have-nots'' took the largest drop since the question was asked.
This happened even as the percentage of Americans who grouped themselves under either label stayed relatively constant. Nearly 6 in 10 Americans still see themselves as the haves, while only about a third see themselves as the have-nots. The numbers have been in that range for a decade.
This is the new American delusion. The facts point to a very different reality.
An Associated Press report this week on census data found that ''a record number of Americans -- nearly 1 in 2 -- have fallen into poverty or are scraping by on earnings that classify them as low income.'' The report said that the data ''depict a middle class that's shrinking.''
An October report from the Congressional Budget Office found that, from 1979 to 2007, the average real after-tax household income for the 1 percent of the population with the highest incomes rose 275 percent. For the rest of the top 20 percent of earners, it rose 65 percent. But it rose just 18 percent for the bottom 20 percent.
And a report released in May by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development found that ''the gap between rich and poor in O.E.C.D. countries has reached its highest level for over 30 years.'' In the United States, the average income of the richest 10 percent of the population had risen to around 14 times that of the poorest 10 percent.
Our growing income inequality is a fact. So is the possibility that it could prove economically disastrous.
An April report from the International Monetary Fund found that growing income inequality has a negative effect on economic expansion. The report said that long periods of high growth, which were called ''growth spells,'' were ''much more likely to end in countries with less equal income distributions. The effect is large.'' It continued: ''Inequality seemed to make a big difference almost no matter what other variables were in the model or exactly how we defined a 'growth spell.' ''
Our income inequality could jeopardize our recovery.
Yet another Gallup report issued Friday found that most Americans now say that the fact that some people in the U.S. are rich and others are poor does not represent a problem but is an acceptable part of our economic system.
If denial is a river, it runs through doomed societies.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: ''Haves'' and ''Have Nots'' (Source: Gallup) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); CENSUS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



737 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Investors Scrutinizing JPMorgan's Mortgages

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Bank of America, the firm perhaps hardest hit by mortgage-related lawsuit woes, might have some company in the courthouse soon.
Lawyers representing investors that settled billions of dollars of mortgage bond claims with Bank of America last summer announced on Friday that they had opened investigations into $95 billion worth of mortgages held in JPMorgan Chase securities.
The investors are concerned that there were mortgages put inside those securities before the housing bubble burst that were subpar from the beginning, and they are investigating whether JPMorgan should repurchase those loans. 
JPMorgan is among the banks with the most mortgage-related litigation and claims, having inherited much of its exposure from its acquisitions of Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual, which both ran into trouble partly because of troubled mortgages. Of the 243 mortgage bonds at JPMorgan that the investors are targeting, at least half were created by Bear Stearns or Washington Mutual.
For the banking sector in general, mortgage bond investigations have left a looming question mark over the industry's prospects. Banks face investigations and potential litigation from private investors as well as state attorneys general and also from the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees the mortgage financing giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
The potential dollar cost of the mortgage mess has kept growing this year; many analysts estimate it may be more than $100 billion for the industry. But as a team of bank analysts at FBR, a firm in Arlington, Va., put it in a report that estimated the liabilities: ''Does anyone really know?''
For banks, the continuing doubts about their old mortgage businesses also makes it difficult to move on with new mortgage origination, because the companies may be concerned about the way they describe new mortgages in filings, analysts say. The lack of lending, in turn, is seen as a drag on the economy.
''It is inhibiting people from lending,'' said Tom Cronin, a managing director of the Collingwood Group, a housing consulting firm in Washington. ''You're only going to make the very best loans, if you don't know how enforcement is going to be handled.''
Joseph M. Evangelisti, a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to discuss the bank's mortgage liability exposure in depth, saying only: ''We stand by our obligations under the agreements in question and we will honor our obligation to repurchase any loan that should be repurchased under the terms of those agreements.''
Banks like JPMorgan have benefited in recent years from the slowness of investors to investigate the bonds they bought before the financial crisis.
Under the terms of those bonds, investors who own small slivers of mortgage bonds -- as most investors do -- have been stymied from obtaining much data on the mortgages within the deals. The rules vary for each bond, but typically banks have to turn over detailed information only to investors who own more than a quarter of a bond. That has meant that large investors like Pimco, BlackRock and even the Federal Reserve Bank of New York have had to combine their interests to cross that threshold.
Many of the investors are coordinating their efforts through Gibbs & Bruns, a law firm in Houston. That firm announced its plans to investigate the 243 JPMorgan deals on Friday.
It was also that firm that struck an $8.5 billion settlement with Bank of America to settle similar issues with $424 billion of mortgage bonds in July, though that settlement has yet to be approved by a court.
Gibbs & Bruns did not return requests for comment.
It will most likely take months for the investors to determine how much money they think they are owed, but when they do, they may try to reach a settlement with JPMorgan or they may take the bank to court.
JPMorgan is currently in litigation with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation over the terms of its deal to acquire Washington Mutual, and it is unclear if it would be the F.D.I.C. or JPMorgan that would pay out on claims related to the failed bank's mortgage bonds.
JPMorgan has set aside billions in reserves to cover mortgage-related litigation, according to a recent company presentation.
If the bank settled with the investors using the same loss ratio that was applied in the Bank of America settlement, it would cost JPMorgan about $1.9 billion. Still the bank would have other exposure outstanding. JPMorgan faces about $31 billion in class-action cases, according to McCarthy Lawyer Links, a legal consulting firm.
Elizabeth Nowicki, a professor of securities law at Tulane University and a former lawyer at the Securities and Exchange Commission, said that the efforts by investors might turn out to be the costliest and most important way that banks are held accountable for their mortgage security creations, because the push for accountability is coming from bank clients. For instance, in the one mortgage security case the S.E.C. has brought against JPMorgan, the bank settled the allegations in June for $153.6 million.
''I think this is going to have much more of an impact in terms of fear and Wall Street sort of shaking in its boots than anything the S.E.C. or Congress can do,'' Ms. Nowicki said.
''Without a confident client base, the banks can't make any money, and now that the client base is really trying to probe into these packages to see what really went on, they are going to have to give some answers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



738 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
RUSSIAN JOURNALIST KILLED
AFTER LEAVING HIS OFFICE
A prominent journalist from Russia's violence-plagued North Caucasus region was shot to death as he left his newspaper, adding to a rising toll of journalists and human rights workers killed in the region in recent years. Page A6
A GAP WIDENS IN ITALY 
Even as the month-old government of Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy easily won a confidence vote on a $40 billion set of austerity measures, Italy's people have come to view their lawmakers as members of the pampered elite. Page A6
DUTCH BISHOPS APOLOGIZE
Roman Catholic bishops in the Netherlands said that they offered apologies to victims of sexual mistreatment after a report by an official commission said that church officials had failed to deal with abuse affecting as many as 20,000 children. Page A8
PERU LETS ACTIVIST TRAVEL
A court in Lima, Peru is allowing Lori Berenson, the paroled American who spent more than 15 years in Peruvian prisons, to travel to the United States for the first time since her terrorism conviction. Page A10
U.S. TRANSFERS LAST PRISONER
The Obama administration turned over the last remaining prisoner in American custody in Iraq to the Iraqi government, a move expected to unleash a political backlash inside the United States. Page A11
National
'BAREFOOT BANDIT' GETS JAIL
FOR THEFTS FROM NEIGHBORS
Colton Harris-Moore, the ''Barefoot Bandit,'' was sentenced to seven years and three months in prison as he pleaded guilty to 33 state charges including burglary and identity theft. He eluded law enforcement for more than two years, becoming something of a folk hero in the process. Page A14
WARNING ON PAYROLL TAX CUT
Economists are warning that the looming expiration of a temporary payroll tax cut -- and the possibility that Congress will not extend it -- would cause families to spend less and could sap strength from a fragile recovery. Page A16
New York
FEW CONCRETE RULES
FOR BACKUP POLICE OFFICERS
The killing of Officer Peter J. Figoski, in which five men were indicted on murder charges, cast a spotlight on the role of backup teams, though there are not many guidelines for backup officers. Page A22
Obituaries
PATRICK V. MURPHY, 91
The son of a New York City policeman, he rose to lead the New York City Police Department in the early 1970s, steering it through one of its rockiest periods as he instituted reforms to root out corruption in the ranks. Page A22
Business
INVESTORS SCRUTINIZING
JPMORGAN'S MORTGAGES
Lawyers representing investors that settled billions of dollars of mortgage bond claims with Bank of America said that they were investigating $95 billion worth of mortgages held in JPMorgan Chase & Company securities. Page B1
DELAYS ON NEW BLACKBERRY
Research in Motion's stock fell to an eight-year low after its chief executives announced that the company would not have new BlackBerry phones until late in 2012. Page B1
NEW SOURCES OF CAVIAR
In China, Finland, Spain and the United Arab Emirates, new caviar farms are filling the void left by the depleted stock of wild beluga and other species of sturgeon from the Caspian Sea. Page B3
EX-CHIEF CHARGED IN FRAUD
The Securities and Exchange Commission charged the former head of Fannie Mae with securities fraud for allegedly understating Fannie's exposure to subprime mortgages. Page B6
Sports
PENN STATE AIDE TESTIFIES
ABOUT SANDUSKY ASSAULT
A Penn State assistant football coach testified that in 2002 he saw Jerry Sandusky sexually assaulting a young boy, and that he reported the incident to Coach Joe Paterno and university officials. Page B9
Arts
NONPROFIT COMPANIES ENJOY
CASH FROM BROADWAY HITS
While money is tight these days for nonprofit theaters nationwide, New York's major nonprofits are financially stable by comparison, their leaders say. But they are becoming more aggressive about producing work that can sell tickets, as a hedge against the unpredictability of private donations and subscription renewals. Page C1
OP-ED
Charles M. Blow PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); PRISONS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); TAX LAW (75%); PAROLE (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); BURGLARY (73%); SENTENCING (73%); TERRORISM (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICS (71%); RELIGION (70%); LAWYERS (69%); IDENTITY THEFT (65%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (62%); BONDS (60%); MURDER (58%); LARCENY & THEFT (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%); RIM (TSX) (50%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



739 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Say Economic Recovery Might Suffer if Tax Break Is Allowed to Expire

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Economists are warning that the looming expiration of a temporary payroll tax cut -- and the possibility that Congress will not extend it -- would cause families to spend less and could sap strength from a fragile recovery.
On Friday night, the Senate reached a tentative agreement to extend the payroll tax cut for two months. However, House members have opposed a short-term deal, leaving it in limbo heading into the weekend. 
The tax cut, part of a late 2010 deal between the White House and Congress, will save the average American household $934 in 2011, according to the Tax Policy Center in Washington. Although the precise impact of the cut this year is impossible to know, analysts generally say it lifted spending and helped the economy cope with Europe's troubles as well as rising food and gasoline prices early this year.
If the cut expires early next year, forecasters predict that economic growth and hiring will slow, and some say the economy could even be pushed back into recession. The expiration would effectively amount to a 2 percent tax increase on all of America's 160 million wage earners.
''If the Europe mess weren't there, there would be a good case for letting taxes go back up,'' said Joel Prakken, the chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, a major forecasting firm. ''But a combination of a big tax increase plus the threat from Europe, when the economy is still in the doldrums -- why take that risk?''
Gregory Daco, an economist at IHS Global Insight, another widely followed research firm, said policy makers were mistaken to assume that the recent improvement in the economy would automatically continue. ''Policy makers are shortsighted,'' Mr. Daco added.
Goldman Sachs estimated that the expiration could knock two-thirds of a percentage point off growth in early 2012 if the tax cut was not extended for a full year. More pessimistic analysts at the French bank Societe Generale warned clients that failing to renew the tax cut and continue federal support for the long-term unemployed might erase growth entirely in the first half of next year.
The White House has started to seize on independent economists' views to make the case for extending the tax cut, which the administration pushed to include in the deal with Congress last December. Republicans have given mixed signals on an extension, with some opposing it as an expensive Band-Aid and others supporting it if it is part of a bill that also approves the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf Coast.
On Wednesday, a senior administration official cautioned that the economy ''cannot withstand'' the hit. If taxes go up, ''You have a material, significant blow to growth at a time when the economy is not growing fast enough,'' a second senior administration official said. ''And you have this other damage in confidence, and confidence can have bigger effects on how much people spend, or how much businesses hire, how much businesses invest.''
Economists have noted that dollar for dollar, the payroll tax cut does not jolt growth as well as other provisions, like providing additional weeks of unemployment insurance for workers out of a job for more than six months. In a November report, for instance, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found that a cut to payroll taxes paid by employers, rather than employees, might have a stronger impact on growth and jobs.
Some economists have even argued that most Americans save much of it one way or another.
''About half say they're going to pay off debt, about a third say they're going to save it, and the rest say they will spend it,'' said Joel Slemrod, an economist at the University of Michigan, who has surveyed households' awareness of and responses to the tax cut for a forthcoming paper. ''We have some evidence suggesting that these responses are correlated with what people actually do.''
Still, economists believe the tax cut helped buoy the economy during a difficult year characterized by slow growth and meager job gains. Moody's Analytics, for instance, estimated that the payroll tax cut, combined with an expansion of jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed and a few other measures, added a percentage point to growth in 2011.
Moreover, forecasters believe that next year's payroll tax cut might have a stronger impact than last year's. Mr. Prakken, of Macroeconomic Advisers, said that with the cost of gasoline potentially more stable, households might spend the cash on consumer goods and ignite a stronger recovery.
''Last year, everybody said the $120 billion payroll tax holiday would spur growth, but then growth did not pick up,'' he said. The tax cut ''had exactly the stimulative effect we thought it would. But that effect was almost exactly offset by an unexpected peaking of energy costs.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the concern of some economists that a failure to extend the payroll tax cut could undercut the country's fragile economic recovery described incorrectly the increase in taxes that would occur without such Congressional action. Taxes on the payroll income of America's 160 million wage earners would increase to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent; the change would not amount to a 2 percent tax increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (53%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%); GLE (PAR) (52%); GLE (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011



740 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Stay Even

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Consumer prices in the United States were unchanged in November, and the 12-month inflation rate fell for the second consecutive month, the Labor Department reported on Friday. 
Economists had expected an increase of 0.1 percent in the Consumer Price Index, after a drop of 0.1 percent in October.
In the 12 months through November, prices rose 3.4 percent, down from the three-year high of 3.9 percent clocked in September.
Friday's report backed the view that a spike in inflation is subsiding. Economists and investors see inflation cooling over the coming months, which could help convince the Federal Reserve to do more to bring down the country's 8.6 percent unemployment rate.
Earlier in the week, the Fed warned that turmoil in Europe presented a big risk to the American economy, and policy makers left the door open to further steps to bolster growth.
Fed officials are divided among those who think high unemployment and sluggish growth require more action and those who contend the central bank's already-aggressive efforts provide a dangerous invitation to inflation.
Most economists have said the Fed's next meeting on Jan. 24-25 would be the more likely occasion for any new moves to its already extraordinary push to bring down borrowing costs and help growth.
Of price categories in the November report, food rose 0.1 percent, while gasoline fell 2.4 percent. Outside food and energy, which are considered relatively volatile, prices climbed 0.2 percent.
In a sign that could give pause to policy makers still concerned about inflation, core prices rose 2.2 percent in the 12 months through November, up from 2.1 percent in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



741 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Brings Peaceful End To Yogurt War Between Cities

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
He persuaded a skeptical Legislature to legalize same-sex marriage. He rewrote the state's tax code in three days. And now, for the crowning achievement of his first year in office, he has brokered peace in the yogurt wars.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was watching TV this week when he spotted a story suggesting that an intercity dispute over a sewer line near a new Wal-Mart was threatening to sink the expansion of a Greek-style yogurt plant in eastern New York. 
He directed his assistant to put him on the phone with the mayors of the warring communities and with the head of the yogurt company. And, when he had difficulty reaching the mayors after business hours -- one mayor's cellphone had died -- he asked for the police to find them.
Within hours, the cowed mayors announced that they had agreed to settle the matter, allowing Fage USA to proceed with its plans to double the 85,000 tons of yogurt it produces annually in the Mohawk Valley.
''Cuomo Tells Mayors: Settle Yogurt Dispute,'' read the headline in The Times Union of Albany. And then, ''Cuomo Finishes Fage Battle'' said The Daily Gazette of Schenectady -- giving Mr. Cuomo one more newspaper clipping to add to his scrapbook.
Fage (pronounced Fa-yeh), founded in Greece in 1926, opened its first and only American plant in 2008 in Johnstown, about 40 miles northwest of Albany. Americans fancy Greek yogurt, it turns out, and so Fage now wants to spend $120 million to increase its production capacity.
No one seems to dispute the worthiness of that project, especially in economically distressed Fulton County, where the unemployment rate stood at 9 percent in October. But as part of the expansion, the company also sought to build a whey pretreatment facility on a parcel of land owned by Johnstown and a neighboring community, Gloversville, next to a wastewater treatment plant they share.
In return for its consent, Gloversville asked Johnstown to change the rules for their jointly run sewer system, so that future commercial development just outside their city, near where the Wal-Mart is being built, could tap into it.
Johnstown objected. The yogurt got caught in the middle. The governor was not pleased.
''The whole year, I've said we're trying to change the perception of the State of New York from an antibusiness state to a state that's open for business,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a telephone interview Friday. ''The last thing we should be doing is frustrating businesses.''
Mr. Cuomo reached the mayor of Gloversville, Dayton J. King, at about 5:15 on Tuesday night.
''He said, 'I want to talk about yogurt,' '' Mr. King recalled.
Sarah J. Slingerland, the mayor of Johnstown, was home when the local police department called and said the governor was looking for her.
''He said, 'It sounds like you're very close to an agreement,' and I said yes,'' Mayor Slingerland recalled, ''and he said, 'Well, I would really like this, because of the economic growth and jobs.' ''
Mr. Cuomo also called the head of the yogurt company. ''I told him that we would work it out, and pardon any inconvenience, but we would work it out one way or the other; we very much wanted him to stay here and to grow,'' the governor said.
Mr. Cuomo's intervention paid off; later Tuesday night, the mayors said they had agreed to settle their dispute. Gloversville would get its sewer hookups; Johnstown would get its yogurt.
''It all worked out, so everybody's happy,'' the governor said, adding that he had Fage yogurt in his refrigerator at home. ''My daughters,'' he said, ''are fans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fage USA's plans to double production in Fulton County can proceed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MILK (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); PLANT CAPACITY (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); FLUID MILK MFG (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); PEACE PROCESS (58%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



742 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Occupy Group Faults Church, A Onetime Ally

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
For months, they were the best of neighbors: the slapdash champions of economic equality, putting down stakes in an outdoor plaza, and the venerable Episcopal parish next door, whose munificence helped sustain the growing protest.
But in the weeks since Occupy Wall Street was evicted from Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, relations between the demonstrators and Trinity Wall Street, a church barely one block from the New York Stock Exchange, have reached a crossroads.
The displaced occupiers had asked the church, one of the city's largest landholders, to hand over a gravel lot, near Canal Street and Avenue of the Americas, for use as an alternate campsite and organizing hub. The church declined, calling the proposed encampment ''wrong, unsafe, unhealthy and potentially injurious.''
And now the Occupy movement, after weeks of targeting big banks and large corporations, has chosen Trinity, one of the nation's most prominent Episcopal parishes, as its latest antagonist. 
''We need more; you have more,'' one protester, Amin Husain, 36, told a Trinity official on Thursday, during an impromptu sidewalk exchange between clergy members and demonstrators. ''We are coming to you for sanctuary.''
Trinity's rector, the Rev. James H. Cooper, defended the church's record of support for the protesters, including not only expressions of sympathy, but also meeting spaces, resting areas, pastoral services, electricity, bathrooms, even blankets and hot chocolate. But he said the church's lot -- called Duarte Square -- was not an appropriate site for the protesters, noting that ''there are no basic elements to sustain an encampment.''
''Trinity has probably done as much or more for the protesters than any other institution in the area,'' Mr. Cooper wrote on his parish Web site. ''Calling this an issue of 'political sanctuary' is manipulative and blind to reality. Equating the desire to seize this property with uprisings against tyranny is misguided, at best. Hyperbolic distortion drives up petition signatures, but doesn't make it right.''
The criticism of Trinity was coming not only from protesters, but even from some Episcopal priests and other Protestant clergy members.
''Trinity Church had a fantastic opportunity to be a Christlike presence by openings its doors to the protesters,'' said the Rev. Milind Sojwal, the rector of All Angels Church, an Episcopal parish on the Upper West Side. ''And I believe Trinity blew it.''
On Thursday, some church leaders and protesters brought a Nativity scene to Trinity's main entrance on Broadway, with a sign attached. ''There was no room for them in the inn,'' it read in part. ''Trinity has plenty of room.''
Occupy Wall Street plans to hold a demonstration on Saturday at the lot. Some clergy members have said they planned to attend, and a handful said they may join protesters who have discussed taking down the fences around the lot, risking arrest.
''I'm willing to occupy space in an act of civil disobedience in order to shine a light on social and economic injustice,'' said the Rev. John Merz, of the Episcopal Church of the Ascension in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
Trinity is not the first Anglican church to grapple with how to respond to the Occupy movement. In London, protesters have camped outside St. Paul's Cathedral for weeks, and the city has sought to evict them.
So vexing is Trinity's dilemma that one of the world's most prominent Anglicans, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, has issued two statements on the matter: one posted on the Occupy Wall Street Web site, imploring Trinity to ''find a way to help'' the protesters, and a second, posted on the Trinity Web site, in which Archbishop Tutu said his comments were ''not to be used to justify breaking the law.''
Bishop Mark S. Sisk, the Episcopal bishop of New York, and Presiding Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori, the top official of the denomination nationally, issued statements on Friday supporting Trinity's position.
''It is regrettable that Occupy members feel it necessary to provoke potential legal and police action by attempting to trespass on other parish property,'' Presiding Bishop Jefferts Schori said. ''Seekers after justice have more often achieved success through nonviolent action, rather than acts of force or arms. I would urge all concerned to stand down and seek justice in ways that do not further alienate potential allies.''
Older than the country in which it stands, Trinity has a long and storied history. Alexander Hamilton was once a pew holder. The church shook, amid a storm of debris, as the towers of the World Trade Center fell.
Less known, though, is the church's status as a real estate titan. Since 1705, when Queen Anne of England bequeathed more than 200 acres of what was then farmland to the church, Trinity Real Estate has come to control six million square feet of property, much of it office space around Hudson Square, financing an operation most parishes could never fathom.
''No matter how supportive they may appear to Occupy, no matter how much hospitality they show to Occupy, Trinity Wall Street owns a lot of Lower Manhattan,'' said Jim Naughton, a longtime observer of Episcopal Church issues who works as a partner at Canticle Communications, a public relations firm. ''They're vulnerable in that regard.''
On Nov. 15, hours after they were driven from Zuccotti Park, many Occupy Wall Street protesters reconvened at Duarte Square, which some knew to be Trinity's property. Even before the eviction, protesters had asked that Trinity allow them to use the space, said Bill Dobbs, a spokesman for the group.
A portion of Duarte Square, a small sidewalk with leafless trees, is public. But Trinity owns a larger area that is filled with wooden benches and shrubbery. The private area is currently vacant, enclosed by a locked chain-link fence, but the church says it has licensed the property through April 2013 to a nonprofit arts organization, which holds occasional art exhibitions there.
Critics argued that Trinity's resources and influence carried with them an added responsibility. The Rev. Earl Kooperkamp, of St. Mary's Episcopal Church in West Harlem, noted that many churches hung signs from their chapels, welcoming passers-by.
And the Rev. Michael Ellick, of Judson Memorial Church, a Greenwich Village congregation affiliated with the American Baptist Churches and the United Church of Christ, said Trinity needed to do more.
''Charity is not enough,'' Mr. Ellick said. ''Charity keeps things the same.''
Some clergy, though, said Trinity had already exceeded its Christian obligations.
''Trinity has been more than accommodating to a marginal group of protesters,'' said the Rev. J. Douglas Ousley, of the Church of the Incarnation in Murray Hill, an Episcopal parish.
And Robert Bruce Mullin, a professor at the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church, said it was easy for other churches to criticize Trinity's use of its property.
''It's cheap grace,'' he said. ''It's great to defend the rights of protesters in someone else's backyard.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A lot owned by the Trinity Wall Street church, barely a block from the New York Stock Exchange, that protesters covet.
 Linda Hanick, left, and Matt Heyd of Trinity Wall Street, with Laura Gottesdiener, right, an Occupy Wall Street demonstrator. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); PETITIONS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



743 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Crippling the Right to Organize

BYLINE: By WILLIAM B. GOULD IV. 
William B. Gould IV, a law professor at Stanford, was chairman of the National Labor Relations Board from 1994 to 1998.

 BODY:
Stanford, Calif.
UNLESS something changes in Washington, American workers will, on New Year's Day, effectively lose their right to be represented by a union. Two of the five seats on the National Labor Relations Board, which protects collective bargaining, are vacant, and on Dec. 31, the term of Craig Becker, a labor lawyer whom President Obama named to the board last year through a recess appointment, will expire. Without a quorum, the Supreme Court ruled last year, the board cannot decide cases.
What would this mean? 
Workers illegally fired for union organizing won't be reinstated with back pay. Employers will be able to get away with interfering with union elections. Perhaps most important, employers won't have to recognize unions despite a majority vote by workers. Without the board to enforce labor law, most companies will not voluntarily deal with unions.
If this nightmare comes to pass, it will represent the culmination of three decades of Republican resistance to the board -- an unwillingness to recognize the fundamental right of workers to band together, if they wish, to seek better pay and working conditions. But Mr. Obama is also partly to blame; in trying to install partisan stalwarts on the board, as his predecessors did, he is all but guaranteeing that the impasse will continue. On Wednesday, he announced his intention to nominate two pro-union lawyers to the board, though there is no realistic chance that either can gain Senate confirmation anytime soon.
For decades after its creation in 1935, the board was a relatively fair arbiter between labor and capital. It has protected workers' right to organize by, among other things, overseeing elections that decide on union representation. Employers may not engage in unfair labor practices, like intimidating organizers and discriminating against union members. Unions are prohibited, too, from doing things like improperly pressuring workers to join.
The system began to run into trouble in the 1970s. Employers found loopholes that enabled them to delay the board's administrative proceedings, sometimes for years. Reforms intended to speed up the board's resolution of disputes have repeatedly foundered in Congress.
The precipitous decline of organized labor -- principally a result of economic forces, not legal ones -- cemented unions' dependence on the board, despite its imperfections. Meanwhile, business interests, represented by an increasingly conservative Republican Party, became more assertive in fighting unions.
The board became dysfunctional. Traditionally, members were career civil servants or distinguished lawyers and academics from across the country. But starting in the Reagan era, the board's composition began to tilt toward Washington insiders like former Congressional staff members and former lobbyists.
Starting with a compromise that allowed my confirmation in 1994, the board's members and general counsel have been nominated in groups. In contrast to the old system, the new ''batching'' meant that nominees were named as a package acceptable to both parties. As a result, the board came to be filled with rigid ideologues. Some didn't even have a background in labor law.
Under President George W. Bush, the board all but stopped using its discretion to obtain court orders against employers before the board's own, convoluted, administrative process was completed -- a power that, used fairly, is a crucial protection for workers. In 2007, in what has been called the September Massacre, the board issued rulings that made it easier for employers to block union organizing and harder for illegally fired employees to collect back pay. Democratic senators then blocked Mr. Bush from making recess appointments to the board, as President Bill Clinton had done. For 27 months, until March 2010, the board operated with only two members; in June 2010, the Supreme Court ruled that it needed at least three to issue decisions.
Under Mr. Obama, the board has begun to take enforcement more seriously, by pursuing the court orders that the board under Mr. Bush had abandoned. Sadly, though, the board has also been plagued by unnecessary controversy. In April, the acting general counsel issued a complaint over Boeing's decision to build airplanes at a nonunion plant in South Carolina, following a dispute with Boeing machinists in Washington State. Although the complaint was dropped last week after the machinists reached a new contract agreement with Boeing, the controversy reignited Republican threats to cut financing for the board.
In my view, the complaint against Boeing was legally flawed, but the threats to cut the board's budget represent unacceptable political interference. The shenanigans continue: last month, before the board tentatively approved new proposals that would expedite unionization elections, the sole Republican member threatened to resign, which would have again deprived the board of a quorum.
Mr. Obama needs to make this an election-year issue; if the board goes dark in January, he should draw attention to Congressional obstructionism during the campaign and defend the board's role in protecting employees and employers. A new vision for labor-management cooperation must include not only a more powerful board, but also a less partisan one, with members who are independent and neutral experts. Otherwise, the partisan morass will continue, and American workers will suffer.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CURTIS JINKINS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); LITIGATION (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); BACK PAY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); ELECTION MONITORING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



744 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Fannie and Freddie Chiefs Accused of Deception

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
9:30 p.m. Updated
Regulators have accused the former chief executives of the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of misleading investors about their firms' exposure to risky mortgages, one of the most significant federal actions taken against those at the center of the housing bust.
The lawsuits filed Friday against the two chief executives and four other top executives are an aggressive move by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and come after a three-year investigation.
The agency has come under fire for not pursuing top Wall Street and mortgage industry executives who contributed to the financial crisis. In cases contending the deceptive marketing of securities tied to mortgages, the S.E.C. has been criticized for citing only midlevel bankers while settling with the Wall Street firms themselves. Recently, the agency drew criticism from a federal judge after allowing Citigroup to settle a fraud case without conceding wrongdoing. 
On Friday, S.E.C. officials trumpeted their actions in the Fannie and Freddie case as part of a renewed effort to crack down on wrongdoing at the highest levels of Wall Street and corporate America.
''All individuals, regardless of their rank or position, will be held accountable for perpetuating half-truths or misrepresentations about matters materially important to the interest of our country's investors,'' said Robert S. Khuzami, the agency's enforcement chief. ''Investors were robbed of the opportunity to make informed investment decisions.''
He noted that the agency had now filed 38 separate actions stemming from the 2008 financial crisis.
The former Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives have vowed to challenge the government, saying that the companies repeatedly disclosed the breakdowns of their loan portfolios.
As companies that fed both the housing bubble and Wall Street's appetite for risk, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac came under investigation quickly by federal agencies amid the financial crisis in 2008. But Freddie Mac disclosed this summer that the Justice Department's inquiry into the company had ended without any charges. And the S.E.C stopped short of bringing actions against the two companies.
Instead, agreements with Fannie and Freddie will allow the now government-controlled companies to evade prosecution and fines so long as they cooperate with authorities. The deal does not require approval from a federal court, unlike the proposed settlement with Citigroup.
The case against the former executives, including Daniel H. Mudd, the former chief executive of Fannie Mae, and Richard F. Syron, the former chief of Freddie Mac, centers on a series of disclosures the firms made to investors at the height of the mortgage boom. The government contends that the firms played down the extent of their exposure to subprime mortgages, loans doled out to the riskiest of borrowers.
One S.E.C. complaint contends that Freddie Mac executives falsely proclaimed that the company had virtually no exposure to ultra-risky loans, despite internal warnings admonishing against such claims.
A separate complaint contends that Fannie Mae executives described subprime loans as those made to individuals ''with weaker credit histories'' while only reporting one-tenth of the loans that met that criteria in 2007. Both complaints were filed in the United States District Court in Manhattan.
Mr. Mudd, who was chief executive of Fannie Mae from 2005 until the government took control of the company in 2008, said that there had been no deception.
''The government reviewed and approved the company's disclosures during my tenure, and through the present,'' he said in a statement. ''Now it appears that the government has negotiated a deal to hold the government, and government-appointed executives who have signed the same disclosures since my departure, blameless - so that it can sue individuals it fired years ago.''
The S.E.C.'s commitment to the long-running investigation - more than 100 depositions were produced over its course - highlights the major roles that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac played in the financial crisis and subsequent government bailout. The Bush administration took over the teetering mortgage giants in September 2008, and taxpayers have since pumped more than $150 billion into the two companies. The Obama administration has vowed to wind them down, although the timeline remains unclear.
The case against the former mortgage executives resembles an earlier action against one of the nation's biggest lenders to risky, or subprime, borrowers. Angelo Mozilo, the former chief executive and founder of Countrywide Financial, agreed to pay $22.5 million to settle federal charges along the same lines. The settlement was the largest ever levied against a senior executive of a public company, though Mr. Mozilo, who also agreed to forfeit $45 million in gains, neither admitted to nor denied wrongdoing.
Success for the S.E.C. in the Fannie and Freddie case will largely hinge on the meaning of the word subprime, which the government itself has never fully defined. While the term often refers to borrowers with low credit scores, Fannie and Freddie decided to classify loans as prime or subprime based on the lender type, not the borrower's credit score. A Wall Street bank, for instance, was usually considered a prime lender, despite extending subprime loans.
But the government's complaint contends that this kind of disclosure masked risk. Loans not considered subprime often defaulted at higher rates than those classified as subprime.
The government contends that the executives were less than forthcoming about that extra layer of risk. Mr. Syron told an investor conference in May 2007 that the company had ''basically no subprime business.''
But a lower-level executive at the firm, who reviewed Mr. Syron's speech in advance, warned that such a statement could be misleading.
''We need to be careful how we word this. Certainly our portfolio includes loans that under some definitions would be considered subprime,'' the employee said, according to the complaint. ''We should reconsider making as sweeping a statement.''
Mr. Mudd, meanwhile, testifying before Congress in April 2007, broadly defined subprime as ''the description of a borrower who doesn't have perfect credit.'' But at the same hearing, he told lawmakers that ''less than 2.5 percent of our book of business can be defined as subprime,'' which the complaint says greatly understated the firm's exposure based on his definition that day. Mr. Mudd's estimate omitted some $50 billion in subprimelike loans, according to the complaint.
Lawyers for the executives, however, plan to argue that the firms did in fact disclose minute details of their loan portfolios, suggesting a potential weakness in the case. During the period under scrutiny, the companies produced ''monster charts'' breaking down their loan portfolios by borrowers' credit scores and how much equity they had in their homes, among other information.
Lawyers for Mr. Syron called the S.E.C.'s case ''fatally flawed'' and ''without merit.''
''Simply stated, there was no shortage of meaningful disclosures, all of which permitted the reader to assess the degree of risk in Freddie Mac's guaranteed portfolio,'' Thomas C. Green and Mark D. Hopson, partners at Sidley Austin, said in the statement.
The lawyers note that even the federal government never settled on a definitive meaning for subprime. Indeed, in a 2007 document, multiple federal agencies declined to define it.
Lawyers for two of the other executives named in the suit have also promised to fight the allegations.
The complaints also name Fannie's former risk officer, Enrico Dallavecchia; an executive vice president for Fannie, Thomas A. Lund; Patricia L. Cook, Freddie's former chief business officer; and its executive vice president, Donald J. Bisenius.
Still, Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron are the two most prominent subjects of the complaint.
Since August 2009, Mr. Mudd has been chief executive of the Fortress Investment Group, the large publicly traded private equity and hedge fund company.
Mr. Syron is a former president of the American Stock Exchange and currently an adjunct professor and trustee at Boston College.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Syron, left, and Daniel Mudd before a House panel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
Robert Khuzami of the S.E.C. announced the lawsuits on Friday
far left, Thomas Lund of Fannie Mae
and left, Donald Bisenius of Freddie Mac. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES
LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS
 ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); JUDGES (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); CITIGROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (78%); DANIEL H MUDD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



745 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Amazon Says Long Term And Means It

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
In 1997, the year Amazon.com went public, its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, issued a manifesto: ''It's all about the long term,'' he said. He warned shareholders ''we may make decisions and weigh tradeoffs differently than some companies'' and urged them to make sure that a long-term approach ''is consistent with your investment policy.'' Amazon's management and employees ''are working to build something important, something that matters to our customers, something that we can tell our grandchildren about,'' he added.
But shareholders seem never to have gotten the message. In October, when Amazon reported strong third-quarter revenue growth and earnings that were pretty much what the company had predicted, but indicated it would be spending more to support continued growth, investors hammered its stock. Amazon shares dropped nearly $30, or 13 percent, to $198 a share in just one day, Oct. 25. This week they were trading even lower, at $181.
Over the years, Amazon shares have been periodically buffeted by short-term results that seem to have disappointed investors. ''The stock has been bumpy,'' a Morgan Stanley analyst, Scott Devitt, told me this week. ''Investor trust seems to go in cycles.'' 
The notion that public companies should maximize shareholder value by managing for the long term is pretty much gospel among good-governance proponents and management experts. Jack Welch advanced the concept in a seminal 1981 speech at the Pierre Hotel in New York and elaborated on it in subsequent books and articles while running General Electric, when G.E. was widely lauded as the best-managed company in the country. It has been especially championed in Silicon Valley, where technology companies like Google have openly scorned Wall Street analysts and their obsession with quarterly estimates and results by refusing to issue earnings guidance.
Amazon, in particular, has been true to its word to manage for the long term. It remains one of the world's leading growth companies and its stock has soared 12,200 percent since its public offering. In late October it reported quarterly revenue growth of 44 percent to almost $11 billion, which came on the heels of 80 percent growth a year ago. ''We're seeing the best growth which we've seen since 2000, meaning in 2010 and so far over the past 12 months ending September,'' the chief financial officer, Thomas Szkutak, told investors in October. But operating earnings fell sharply to $79 million. While that was in line with most estimates, Amazon offered a forecast for the fourth quarter in which it said it might lose as much as $200 million or earn as much as $250 million, and even the high end would represent a 47 percent drop.
The reason Amazon is earning so little while selling so much is that it is spending so much on long-term growth. It's opening 17 new fulfillment centers -- airport hangar-size storage and shipping facilities -- this year and aggressively cutting prices. Its profit margin for the quarter was just 2.4 percent, and it said it might be zero for the fourth quarter. (By comparison, Wal-Mart's margins are 6 percent on revenue of $440 billion. )
Amazon seems to be taking customer focus to new levels, willing to run its ever-bigger global business while earning little or nothing in return. To the dismay of some, Mr. Bezos even takes a long-term view of price cuts. ''With rare exceptions, the volume increase in the short term is never enough to pay for the price decrease,'' he told shareholders in 2005. But that kind of thinking, he added, is ''short term. We can estimate what a price reduction will do this week and this quarter. But we cannot numerically estimate the effect that consistently lowering prices will have on our business over five years or 10 years or more.'' Selling at low prices may undercut profits, but they create ''a virtuous cycle that leads over the long term to a much larger dollar amount of free cash flow, and thereby to a much more valuable Amazon.com,'' Mr. Bezos said.
Amazon has done little to dampen speculation that it is selling its revamped Kindle e-reader devices and its recently introduced Fire tablet at a loss. Amazon simply doesn't think like most other companies. When ''we think about the economics of the Kindle business, we think about the totality,'' Mr. Szkutak said. ''We think of the lifetime value of those devices. So we're not just thinking about the economics of the device and the accessories. We're thinking about the content.'' In other words, profits will come down the road when Kindle users buy content through Amazon.
''If everything you do needs to work on a three-year time horizon, then you're competing against a lot of people,'' Mr. Bezos told reporter Steve Levy last month in an interview in Wired. ''But if you're willing to invest on a seven-year time horizon, you're now competing against a fraction of those people, because very few companies are willing to do that. Just by lengthening the time horizon, you can engage in endeavors that you could never otherwise pursue. At Amazon we like things to work in five to seven years. We're willing to plant seeds, let them grow--and we're very stubborn.''
Whatever they might say about long-term shareholder value, this is simply too much for many of today's investors, many of whom are hedge funds, pension funds and institutions who measure their results -- and earn their pay -- based on quarterly benchmarks. ''If you look at the average length of ownership of a stock, the period is declining,'' Mr. Devitt said. ''Amazon is marching to a different drumbeat, which is long term. Are they doing the right thing? Absolutely. Amazon is growing at twice the rate of e-commerce as a whole, which is growing five times faster than retail over all. Amazon is bypassing margins and profits for growth.''
For Amazon, long-term growth confers two major benefits: the kind of economies of scale enjoyed by Wal-Mart and eliminating or weakening competitors. The book retailer Borders has been forced out of business and a rival, Barnes & Noble, is struggling. Best Buy, the electronics retailer, reported this week that earnings plunged 29 percent, despite higher revenue and a surge of Black Friday sales, because the chain had to cut prices and offer free shipping to compete with Amazon. Amazon inflamed many competitors this holiday season by offering extra discounts to shoppers who took mobile devices into stores and then used them to compare prices and order from Amazon.
The revamped Kindle line and especially the new Fire tablet illustrate Amazon's long-term strategy. ''Amazon has much greater ambitions than near-term profits or margins,'' Ken Sena, an Evercore analyst, said.
''Some people are griping that the Fire is sub-par,'' Mr. Sena continued. ''It's not an iPad. And some investors are confused. Why would they give it away, even lose money on it? But getting it into as many hands as possible is important to them. They'll use it to drive higher physical and digital good sales on their site. And these devices also bring Amazon deeper into the local retail opportunity, not to mention the app marketplace potential that exists. Media sales on the device are just the beginning. I think Amazon understands all these components.''
The Fire ''isn't meant to be another iPad,'' Mr. Devitt noted. ''It's a device to sell Amazon content. All indications are it's a success. It's the most gifted item on Amazon. It's too soon to tell, but it seems more promising than it's getting credit for.'' This week Amazon said it had sold more than a million Kindles a week for the last three weeks.
Nearly 15 years after Amazon's public offering, it's safe to say that Mr. Bezos and his colleagues have realized their goal of creating a company to tell their grandchildren about. But one of these days Amazon has to deliver on its promise of higher margins and profits, however long term that may turn out to be. ''To many investors, long term is a year,'' Mr. Devitt said. ''For Bezos, he's looking at a 10- to 20-year time line. When he says long term, he means 2020 or 2030.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new distribution center in Swansea, Wales. The company is sinking millions into such capital expenditures to fuel its growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT CARDY/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (55%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (73%); JACK WELCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) WALES (74%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



746 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Stanford Ends Effort to Build New York Arm

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA; David W. Chen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stanford University abruptly dropped out of the intense international competition to build an innovative science graduate school in New York City, releasing its decision on Friday afternoon. A short time later, its main rival in the contest, Cornell, announced a $350 million gift -- the largest in its history -- to underwrite its bid.
The twin announcements threw a sharp curve into the contest, leaving Cornell's $2 billion proposal for Roosevelt Island as the clear front-runner for what is seen as a prime opportunity to help reinvent higher education. The city is expected to select among the four remaining applicants in January, and bestow up to $400 million in land and infrastructure improvements. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed the competition last year to replicate the experience of Stanford or M.I.T. -- a top-notch engineering and computer science school whose graduates could seed the region with new high-tech businesses -- and with M.I.T. opting not to participate, Stanford was at first seen as the one to beat.
But being a continent away in Palo Alto, Calif., took its toll on Stanford, according to people briefed on the process, who insisted on anonymity to discuss matters they were not authorized to make public. The university, with no experience building in New York, recoiled at meeting terms laid down by the city after its proposal was submitted, while Cornell, with extensive experience in the city -- its medical school is in Manhattan -- expected such negotiations.
And even before the $350 million gift, Cornell, with far more alumni rooted in New York, was more aggressive about generating enthusiasm and financial pledges. (Mayoral aides told reporters that Mr. Bloomberg was not the donor.)
In fact, all sides said that Cornell, which bluntly called the project crucial to the Ithaca-based university's future, simply behaved as if it needed and wanted the prize more. Cornell was more willing to accommodate the city's demands and got an earlier start raising money, and while John L. Hennessy, Stanford's president, was personally engaged, city officials said they never had the sense that he had behind him the kind of united front presented by Dr. David J. Skorton, Cornell's president, and its trustees, deans, faculty members and alumni.
''Stanford could not or would not keep up,'' said a city official who was involved.
Stanford's decision to bow out, made Friday morning by Mr. Hennessy and his board of trustees, surprised city officials and those at competing colleges. A university spokeswoman, Lisa Lapin, said Stanford's negotiating team was still in talks with the city on Thursday, and was still in New York on Friday, when Mr. Hennessy called Mr. Bloomberg and his deputy for economic development, Robert K. Steel, to call it quits.
''We were looking forward to an innovative partnership with the city of New York, and we are sorry that together we could not find a way to realize our mutual goals,'' Mr. Hennessy said in a statement sent to reporters and Stanford alumni about 2 p.m. Friday.
Seven institutions applied by the October deadline, and the city said no thanks to two. Besides Cornell, the three remaining contenders are Columbia University, which has declined the city's offer of free land and instead wants to devote part of its West Harlem expansion to an applied sciences school; Carnegie Mellon University, whose proposal is for a parcel the city offered in the Brooklyn Navy Yard; and a consortium led by New York University and focused on real estate the city had not offered, a building in Downtown Brooklyn. Mr. Bloomberg has said he could choose two schools rather than one.
But the city has made clear that it favors more prestigious schools and more ambitious proposals. Officials would not release the actual proposals, but Cornell, which would run its school in partnership with Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, has plans for about two million square feet, roughly double the size of Columbia's, which is in turn much larger than the others'. Julie Wood, deputy press secretary for the mayor, said in an e-mail that each remaining contender ''has a game-changing project queued up.''
Reacting to the news, Councilwoman Jessica Lappin and Assemblyman Micah Kellner, who represent Roosevelt Island, called on the city to choose Cornell.
Cornell officials declined to respond directly to Stanford's withdrawal. Instead, it dropped its own bombshell with the record gift, with Dr. Skorton saying in a statement that ''our entire community has come together, in a way that happens only so often in an institution's history, with winning ideas, energy and the creativity that the mayor's challenge deserves.''
Several people involved in the process said Stanford had been surprised by the way the city handled it.
It is standard practice in New York that once proposals are submitted for a building project, officials negotiate with the bidders in hopes of sweetening their offers before selecting one. So, for example, the city asked the schools to commit to a set of construction milestones, with financial penalties for failure to meet the deadlines. Stanford, unfamiliar with the approval and construction process in New York, objected to what it called a potentially expensive loss of flexibility. Cornell was less daunted by the prospect -- and more eager to please the city.
City officials said that the first phase of Cornell's project would accommodate more students than Stanford's, yet seemed more feasible, and that Stanford balked at matching some of what Cornell had proposed.
In its request for proposals, the city said it would judge universities' plans based in part on their expertise and realism in taking on a huge urban project, a factor that all along looked like a potential weakness for Stanford. ''We listed that as a criterion and we meant it,'' a city official said Friday.
And while Stanford's ability to bankroll the project was not seriously in question -- the university routinely leads the nation in fund-raising -- Cornell's early start in gathering alumni pledges made an impression, as did the partnership with Technion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stanford's design proposal for a campus on Roosevelt Island. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STANFORD UNIVERSITY/ENNEAD ARCHITECTS -- IMAGE BY REDSQUARE) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAJOR GIFTS (89%); CITIES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



747 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Senate in Deal To Extend Cuts In Payroll Tax

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and ROBERT PEAR; Helene Cooper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate leaders said on Friday night that they had reached a deal that would extend a payroll tax cut for two months -- falling far short of the yearlong extension they had been seeking. The agreement would also speed the decision process for the construction of an oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf Coast, a provision necessary to win over Republicans who opposed the tax break.
A senior administration officials said the deal announced Friday night met the test that President Obama had set out: that Congress would not go home without preventing a tax increase on 160 million Americans. 
However, rank-and-file members of the House said on Friday that they were opposed to a short-term extension. Approval in that chamber, even with the provision on the Keystone XL pipeline, is no sure thing.
The agreement, on which a Senate vote is expected Saturday, would also allow jobless workers to continue receiving unemployment insurance benefits as permitted by current law for two months. For the same period, there would be no cut or increase in fees paid to doctors for treating Medicare patients. The cost of these items will be fully paid for, Congressional aides said.
Administration officials indicated that Mr. Obama would not veto the legislation even though the Keystone XL pipeline provision remained in the bill. They said they believed that the president could still delay the pipeline until environmental stipulations were met. ''This provision does not mandate it,'' the administration official said, ''it simply speeds up the review process for a decision.''
Nonetheless, environmental advocates were unhappy. ''We're stunned that the president would say one week that he's going to veto any provision that includes Keystone, and then cave the next week,'' said Bill McKibben, founder of 350.org, an environmental group opposed to the pipeline. ''Where I come from, people don't do that, but I guess this is Washington.''
News of the deal came as the 112th Congress lurched toward the end of its tumultuous first session. Earlier on Friday, the House finished off one of its last major pieces of business for the year, voting 296 to 121 to approve a sweeping $1 trillion spending bill that would keep the government funded through Sept. 30. The Senate is set to approve it Saturday.
But even as House members raced for the airports, they knew that they might have to return next week to deal with extending the 2 percentage-point cut in the Social Security payroll tax. If Congress does nothing, the rate will revert to 6.2 percent in January.
As wrangling over the tax has continued, Republican leaders have sought to build support for the measure by adding conservative policy provisions, which have replaced earmarks as the legislative sweetener for Republican lawmakers in a Congress where fundamental differences about the role of government in American life deeply divide the parties.
That conflict, which mirrors the broader political dynamic across the country, is unlikely to ebb in the second session, as Republicans labor to make life more difficult for President Obama and Democrats struggle to hold the White House and the Senate.
''It's a presidential year and it may even get worse,'' said Representative Jeff Fortenberry of Nebraska, a Republican who has served since 2005. ''My hope is that the institution can regain some stature in the eyes of the people,'' he said. ''Sadly next year, because of the dynamics of politics, because of the dynamic of the media because of the dynamics of money, it's likely to be more difficult.''
Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader, pledged Friday night to continue to push for a full-year extension of the payroll tax cut and to paint Republicans as favoring a tax increase for the middle class.
The omnibus spending bill approved by the House on Friday provides more than $900 billion for the Defense Department, Homeland Security, public works, foreign aid, veterans benefits and a wide range of health, education and labor programs in the 2012 fiscal year.
House and Senate negotiators resolved their last dispute by eliminating proposals restricting Cuban-Americans' travel to their homeland. The White House took a firm stand against the restrictions, saying Congress should not legislate foreign policy in a spending bill.
For the regular operations of the Defense Department, Congress provided $518 billion, an increase of $5 billion over last year's level. For the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, it provided $115 billion, down from $158 billion last year. Military personnel would receive a 1.6 percent pay raise.
The bill would provide $1.8 billion, the same as last year, for renewable energy technology. But it would end the program that guaranteed a loan for Solyndra, the failed solar equipment company.
The bill would require federal agencies to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of proposed federal guidelines for the marketing of food to children.
Margo G. Wootan, director of nutrition policy at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a research and advocacy group, said, ''This will not kill, but will delay, the guidelines, which are awaiting final approval at the White House.''
The bill stipulates that no federal money can be used to ''implement or enforce'' new energy efficiency standards for light bulbs. Republicans said the government had no business telling people what sort of light bulbs they could use.
The bill would prohibit the District of Columbia from using federal or local tax money to pay for abortions for low-income women under Medicaid.
Under the bill, the National Institutes of Health would get $30.7 billion, which is $299 million above last year's level and $758 million below the president's request.
The bill provides $3.5 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program -- $1.2 billion less than last year but $909 million more than the president requested.
The measure also cuts President Obama's Race to the Top education initiative by more than 20 percent, to $550 million, from $698 million. The bill says health officials cannot use federal money to advocate gun control or to carry out needle exchange programs, intended to curb the spread of AIDS.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the House leaving the Capitol on Friday after passing a year-end $1 trillion spending bill that finances the government through Sept. 30. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (72%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); MEDICARE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



748 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Fraud Case Casts Cloud Over Fortress Group

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
9:02 p.m. Updated
When Daniel Mudd, the former head of Fannie Mae, joined Fortress Investment Group as chief executive in 2009, he was clouded by the government investigations into his previous employer.
On Friday, those clouds darkened after the Securities and Exchange Commission charged Mr. Mudd with securities fraud for allegedly understating Fannie's exposure to subprime mortgages. The commission also sued two other Fannie executives and three former officials at Freddie Mac.
''This morning, the S.E.C. filed a civil complaint against Dan Mudd, related to matters associated with his previous employment at Fannie Mae,'' said Gordon Runte, a Fortress spokesman. ''The complaint does not relate to Fortress, and this matter has not impacted our company or our business operations. We are undertaking a thorough review of the matters addressed in the complaint.'' 
Mr. Mudd denied the charge in a statement issued through his lawyer, Jamie Wareham.
''Every piece of material data about loans held by Fannie Mae was known to the United States government and to the investing public,'' said Mr. Mudd. ''The S.E.C. is wrong, and I look forward to a court where fairness and reason - not politics - is the standard for justice.''
While the civil charges have nothing to do with Mr. Mudd's conduct at Fortress, corporate governance experts say that the asset manager's directors have a difficult decision about whether to keep him at the helm. When the S.E.C. warned him earlier this year that it could file charges, Fortress's board stood behind him.
''There is no rule requiring him to step down, but it's a complicated situation,'' said Jill E. Fisch, a professor of corporate law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
''The board has to ask themselves whether this is a problem in terms of his integrity,'' she said. ''Plus, there's the negative public relations associated with the case and the distraction of having to deal with the charges.''
Fortress hired Mr. Mudd in July 2009, nearly a year after the government forced him out as Fannie's C.E.O. He succeeded Wesley Edens, the co-founder of Fortress and its largest shareholder. Bringing on Mr. Mudd freed up Mr. Edens and his top executives to focus on their private equity portfolios and hedge funds, which had been buffeted by the global financial crisis.
Fortress, which is based in New York, was started in 1998 by five former executives of Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs. It benefited from the industry's extraordinary growth over the last decade, and was the first large so-called alternative asset manager to sell its shares to the public. Its early 2007 I.P.O., and the sale of a minority stake to Nomura Holdings just before its offering, made Fortress's founders hundreds of millions of dollars.
Today, Fortress manages about $44 billion in assets. While the firm has recovered from the sharp downturn, several of its businesses have continued to struggle, including a ''global macro'' hedge fund that places bets on a range of investments around the globe, including United States stocks and Asian currencies.
The company's stock performance also continues to sag. On Friday afternoon, shares stood at $3.40, nearly the exact price that it traded at on the day the company announced Mr. Mudd's appointment.
Mr. Mudd, 52, is the son of Roger Mudd, the former television journalist. Earlier this month, at a Goldman Sachs investment conference, the Fortress chief spoke about the challenges facing Europe's economies and, more broadly, the political and regulatory uncertainty around the world.
''This is no joyful state of affairs for us as human beings, but it is actually a very good investment environment,'' he said. ''Maybe the best we've seen in our lifetime.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Mudd is now the head of Fortress Investment Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); LAWYERS (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); FIG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



749 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Deal

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a summary of the president's weekly address and happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
Senate leaders have reached a deal that would extend a payroll tax cut for two months, Jennifer Steinhauer and Robert Pear reports. The agreement would also speed the decision process for the construction of an oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf Coast. Approval in the House, however, is no sure thing. News of the deal came as the 112th Congress lurched toward the end of its tumultuous first session. Earlier on Friday, the House finished off one of its last major pieces of business for the year, voting 296 to 121 to ap\x81\xB8 prove a sweeping $1 trillion spending bill that would keep the government funded through Sept. 30. The Senate is set to approve it Saturday, as well as to vote on the payroll tax measure. 

        
If the payroll tax cut were to expire, forecasters warn that economic growth and hiring will slow, sapping strength from an already fragile recovery, Annie Lowrey reports.

        
The Obama administration said Friday that it would allow each state to specify its own "essential health benefits" when it comes to implementing the new health care law, Robert Pear reports. By giving states the discretion to specify essential benefits, the Obama administration sought to defuse one of the most powerful arguments made by Republican critics of the president's health care overhaul - that it was imposing a rigid, bureaucrat-controlled health system and threatening the nation's quality of care.

        
Alone among the Republican field, Ron Paul has a built-in network from his 2008 presidential run that gives him a decisive organizational edge this election season, Richard A. Oppel Jr. reports. Iowa Republicans say that advantage is an important reason some polls show him within reach of a surprise victory in the Jan. 3 caucuses.

        
While Mitt Romney was headed to South Carolina to collect the endorsement of Gov. Nikki Haley on Friday, Newt Gingrich was in Virginia to watch his wife perform in a Christmas concert, Ashley Parker and Trip Gabriel report. The contrast between the two candidates is stark - Mr. Romney is running a largely traditional campaign, using endorsements and his well-financed operation to try to carve out a path to the nomination, while Mr. Gingrich is continuing to do things much on his own terms.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama used his weekly address to mark the end of the nine year war in Iraq. He praised the troops' efforts, the military families for their sacrifices and the nation for showing support and gratitude to members of the Armed Forces. "Our troops are now preparing to make their final march across the border and out of the country. Iraq's future will be in the hands of its own people," he said. "And this holiday season, all of us can finally say: welcome home." 
Around the Web

        
First Lady Michelle Obama has accepted a date to accompany Lance Cpl. Aaron Leeks to the Marine Corps Ball next November, CNN.com reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
Occupy D.C. protesters will meet at Fort Meade, Md., to rally in support of Pfc. Bradley Manning, the Army Intelligence analyst accused of leaking military documents. Daniel Ellsberg, who leaked the Pentagon Papers, is expected to speak.

        
The Early Word: Battlefronts
        
The Early Word: Voters
        
The Early Word: The Deciders
        
The Weekend Word: (Not) According to Plan
        
The Early Word: Going Head to Head

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (84%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); APPROVALS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FAMILY (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (66%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); CHRISTMAS (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MICHELLE OBAMA (75%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RON PAUL (56%); NIKKI HALEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



750 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Press 1, for Some Straight Talk From Mr. Gingrich

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich made an infomercial-like pitch to listeners, asking them repeatedly to press one if they wanted to speak at the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses on his behalf and to press two if they wanted to be a precinct captain. 

 BODY:
Newt Gingrich, operating on a shoe-string budget, campaigned by conference call on Saturday with Iowa voters.
In a first-of-its-kind move for the skeletal Gingrich operation, the candidate himself made an infomercial-like pitch to listeners, asking them repeatedly to press 1 if they wanted to speak at the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses on his behalf and to press 2 if they wanted to be a precinct captain.
The call, which lasted 45 minutes, served several purposes, including the fact that it was an inexpensive way to try and organize voters for the caucuses. Mr. Gingrich's campaign, which nearly went dark over the summer, has only recently surged in the polls and has had to scramble to build an organization, which is essential to compete in Iowa.
It also allowed Mr. Gingrich to respond to attacks against him. He has promised to stay positive, although he has reserved the right to respond to negative attacks. The conference call was a way to answer critics without spending money on television ads and without appearing negative himself.
A campaign spokesman said that 14,000 people listened in on the call, which Mr. Gingrich's Iowa field organization set up earlier in the week when the attacks against him started to build.
Mr. Gingrich said he was holding the call because critics -- whom he did not identify -- said he was not a true conservative. He went through a litany of positions that he said demonstrated his conservative credentials, from his work on a balanced budget to his support for a strong energy policy which, by the way, includes his longtime support for ethanol, an important element to the Iowa economy.
 He said he opposed partial-birth abortion and yet again denied that he had lobbied for Freddie Mac, the mortgage giant.
"People have said things that are wildly inaccurate," he said.
He answered seven questions from friendly voters and a final, apparently unexpected one, which turned out to be from a doctor who said he was pleased that Mr. Gingrich had supported the individual mandate in President Obama's health care law. Mr. Gingrich said he did not support the mandate but did not argue with the caller.
 "I feel badly about having to have this kind of phone call just to dispel negative kind of things," Mr. Gingrich said, adding that the focus should be on President Obama.
 He concluded by saying that "because of the extraordinary negativity of the campaign," he was inclined to hold such conference calls every couple of days and he encouraged listeners to raise questions about anything, including the junk mail they get and any other "dishonest" attacks against him.
 And, he told listeners, "If you decide I'm the person you'd like to have as president, press 1 "

        
Bachmann Hits the Road in Iowa
        
Gingrich Accepts Invite to Debate Moderated by Trump
        
A Little Soul-Searching in Iowa
        
Gingrich Looks to Make 'Activist' Judges an Issue
        
Romney Holds Fire Against Gingrich in Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); INFOMERCIALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); LOBBYING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (62%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%); ABORTION (50%) Iowa Caucus; newt gingrich; Presidential Election of 2012; Republicans; Gingrich, Newt; Iowa; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (65%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (65%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (65%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



751 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, December 18

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney makes his first Sunday show appearance of the campaign this week. 

 BODY:
 Mitt Romney makes his first Sunday show appearance this week, capping off a week in which he has conducted nearly as many interviews as he had since declaring his candidacy. He will stop by "Fox News Sunday" to talk about President Obama, the economy and the battle for the Republican presidential nomination.
Meanwhile, his rival for front-runner status, Newt Gingrich, appears on CBS's "Face the Nation," discussing whether he can weather the recent barrage of criticism and snag the nomination.
In the wake of Congress averting a government shutdown, NBC's "Meet the Press" features House Speaker John A. Boehner, who will discuss recent events on Capitol Hill. Also, Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina will talk about her endorsement of Mr. Romney, and Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota discusses whether she can overtake her rivals in the Iowa caucuses.
Senators Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, and Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, join CNN's "State of the Union" to talk about the Senate's vote on Saturday to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits for two months. Then another Republican candidate, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., shares his thoughts on the slight bump he has seen in New Hampshire.
The United States marked the end of the war in Iraq this week, with Mr. Obama praising troops in a speech at Fort Bragg, N.C. L. Paul Bremer III, former presidential envoy to Iraq; Gen. James E. Cartwright, former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and Robin Wright, joint fellow at the United States Institute of Peace and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, will be on CNN to talk about the end of the nine-year war.
Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, incoming chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee, will be on C-Span's "Newsmakers," talking about his new position and the 2012 election.
ABC's "This Week" opens its "Great American Debate" series with Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee, and George Will, conservative columnist, debating Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, and Robert B. Reich, the former labor secretary. The topic this week is the proper role of government in entitlements, taxes and regulations.
Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, joins Bloomberg's "Political Capital."
On TV One's "Washington Watch," Benjamin Jealous, president of the N.A.A.C.P., will talk about efforts by the civil rights group and the Justice Department to counter attempts at voter suppression. Then, Melody Barnes, director of the Domestic Policy Council, and Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, discuss the White House's unfinished business on the domestic policy front.
Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California and chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, joins Representative Raul Labrador, Republican of Idaho, on Univision's "Al Punto." Both congressmen will talk about Operation Fast and Furious, with Mr. Issa sharing his reactions to a recent article in The New York Times about undercover American narcotics agents laundering drug money in Mexico.
Mr. Labrador will also appear on Telemundo's Spanish-language public affairs show, "Enfoque," discussing unemployment and the economy. Representative Joe Baca, Democrat of California, will be on the show, talking about his proposal for immigration reform.
Hungry for more? Wondering what Mr. Gingrich's chances of winning the Iowa caucuses are? How about Mr. Romney's chances in New Hampshire? Check out our interactive graphic featuring Nate Silver's primary predictions.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, December 11
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, December 4
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, November 20
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, November 13
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, November 6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (52%) sunday shows; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); BARNEY FRANK (57%); DARRELL E ISSA (56%); BOB MENENDEZ (56%); JON HUNTSMAN (56%); MICHELE BACHMANN (56%); ROY BLUNT (56%); PETE SESSIONS (56%); NIKKI HALEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011



752 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: What Iraqis Think of the American Withdrawal: Kurdish Region

BYLINE: STEPHEN FARRELL and BAGHDAD BUREAU


HIGHLIGHT: Three Iraqi provinces form the semiautonomous Kurdish region - Sulaimaniya, Erbil and Dohuk - that now has a de facto border with the rest of Iraq, complete with checkpoints and car searches. 

 BODY:
SULAIMANIYA, Kurdish Region
Three Iraqi provinces form the semiautonomous Kurdish region - Sulaimaniya, Erbil and Dohuk - that now has a de facto border with the rest of Iraq, complete with checkpoints and car searches. The region is more stable than the rest of Iraq because it was under American protection for the last decade of Saddam Hussein's rule following the 1991 Kurdish uprising, and largely escaped the post-2003 violence. It has oil, and ambitions in Kirkuk, both of which have caused political tensions with Baghdad.
Mula Qadr Ali, 57, Office worker
1. America's withdrawal means chaos in Iraq between the Sunnis and Shiites and Arabs and Kurds, also among the minorities. It will be the worst period of Iraq's history.
2. The best things that America achieved in Iraq were toppling the dictator Saddam Hussein, from whom Iraq had suffering for many decades, improving the living conditions for people and bringing democracy to Iraq. I think America will leave some of its forces in Iraq in order to maintain America's interests in the area.
3. Personally, my economic situation got better.
Ghaeb Baibani, 30, Laborer
1. Iraq will be a country in crisis after the withdrawal because the government is unable to control security and stability for the people. Conflicts are ongoing, so if the United States leaves it will not be in Iraq's interests.
2. We benefited by gaining freedom from the military operation that freed Iraq from the traitor Saddam, as well as other good things. But America will not leave Iraq completely until it gets what it wants.
3. The economic situation is much better in Kurdistan since 2003, as well as security.
Kasha Umeed, 36, Teacher
1. Iraq face harder times in all areas, security and the economy, after the United States withdrawal and the situation will be worse for a reason that is very clear - Iraq in general has no government.
2. America did not achieve anything for Iraqis, only for itself. America looks after its interests. America will not leave Iraq, it needs a permanent base like the one in Turkey, but the number of troops will be changed.
3. I did not lose anything or gain anything after 2003. Things are still the same for me, with the exception of the improvement in the economy in the region in general.

        
'Shoedenfreude' and Shame: Reaction From Around Iraq
        
Analysis from the Street: Black and Blue State
        
One Man in Kirkuk: Kirkuk in One Man
        
Last Convoy of American Troops Leaves Iraq, Marking an End to the War
        
What Iraqis Think of the American Withdrawal: Kirkuk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); ARMED FORCES (69%) Iraq Withdrawal; Kurds; Sulaimaniya; Iraq War (2003-11); Iraq; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); TURKEY (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



753 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 7482 words

HEADLINE: When All Else Fails . . . Fore!

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER

 BODY:
On the northern edge of Benton Harbor, just beyond the grim grid of housing projects, shuttered storefronts, boarded-up homes and junk-laden yards that dominate much of the town, sits an emerald oasis known as Harbor Shores. As the name suggests, Harbor Shores is a resort development. At its heart is a pristine Jack Nicklaus-designed golf course that meanders along a river and creek; through woods and wetlands; and, most striking, across tall, white sand dunes overlooking Lake Michigan.
The golf course was built largely on fallow, polluted land that was once crowded with factories: holes No. 4 and No. 5 were the slag pit for a company that made automobile brakes. Holes No. 14 and 15 were a former Superfund site once occupied by a company that used radium and mercury to manufacture components for fighter planes.
Metaphorically speaking, Harbor Shores is supposed to have a similarly salutary effect on the poor, overwhelmingly black town that surrounds it. No mere resort, it was envisioned by its developers as a ''single, signature project to drive economic development and bring social change to Benton Harbor,'' in the words of one promotional video. 
In late August, I played the course with a foursome of hackers that included Marcus Robinson, who helped lead the effort to build the resort. A heavy African-American man, Robinson wore khaki shorts, an orange Harbor Shores golf shirt and matching Harbor Shores straw hat. It was a sticky day, and he guzzled Gatorade as he liberated large chunks of turf that on more than one occasion outflew his ball. ''It's such a beautiful property,'' he said as he bent over to fill a large divot with grass seed. ''It's a shame to duff it up.''
Robinson is president of the Consortium for Community Development. The consortium is one of several local nonprofits partly financed by the Whirlpool Corporation, which is based in Benton Harbor, to help encourage the redevelopment of the town. He took up golf at the urging of his girlfriend two years ago, just after construction began on Harbor Shores. ''She was like, 'You don't want to be out here on opening day and have the ball go two inches in front of you at the first tee,' '' he told me. ''Of course, that's exactly what happened. On my first drive, the ball didn't even go out of the tee box.''
Robinson, who is 53, went to graduate school for hypnotherapy, the art of inducing trances to change behavioral patterns, before becoming a corporate consultant in Rochester, N.Y. He was brought to Benton Harbor by Whirlpool as a ''diversity consultant'' in early 2001. His assignment was to work with community leaders, businesspeople and other local residents to come up with ways to address some of the ever-worsening problems -- poverty, violence, white flight, racial strife -- that had been plaguing the city for years and were making it increasingly difficult for Whirlpool to attract executive talent to the area. The discussions helped birth Harbor Shores, a notion that had been kicking around a long while.
Given Benton Harbor's unfavorable history and demographics, no private developer would likely be willing to take on such an ambitious project there. But there was another way: Robinson's group, along with other nonprofits supported by Whirlpool, could secure enough federal and state grant money to help remediate the land, build the golf course and at least get Harbor Shores off the ground. The project's complicated financing deal closed in May 2008, right around the time that the national real-estate market crashed.
On the Thursday morning that we played Harbor Shores, the course looked virtually empty. The blueprints call for the 530-acre resort to include high-end hotels and shops and quaint marinas, but as of now it's basically just a golf course. The first of hundreds of planned houses are going up on cul de sacs with names like Golden Bear Court.
Robinson stopped our cart in front of one half-finished development called the Hideaways. Like all of the homes in Harbor Shores, the houses under construction here are being built in an architectural style known as Coastal Shingle. The development will have its own swimming pool, fire pit and clubhouse. A sign advertised lots priced from the $300,000s to the $600,000s. Robinson told me that 27 of the Hideaways' 58 sites have already been purchased, with the completed homes selling for as much as half a million dollars.
Watching carpenters hammer preweathered wood shingles onto homes that wouldn't look out of place in East Hampton, Long Island, I felt almost as if I were at a resort in a third-world Caribbean country: beyond the boundaries of Harbor Shores is the poorest city in all of Michigan.
The contrast is deliberate, part of a strategy of social engineering that's central to the plan to save Benton Harbor. ''The intermingling that shifts a culture, makes it more upwardly mobile and creates more striving-type sensibilities naturally occurs when you bring people of different races and classes together,'' Robinson said as we rode off toward the next tee. ''It creates a mentality of inclusion.''
A few holes later, as Robinson vainly poked a 6-iron around in some tall grass beside the fairway looking for one of his balls, he conjured a vision of Benton Harbor's future. ''This could be a model for African-American towns,'' he told me. ''I want to see this turned into a great place to live, work and play and have it be predominantly black. A great place to play golf, go to the beach, with great schools, a place that turns out scholars, athletes and artists. A place that's banging, as they say.''
During its heyday as a racially mixed, economically vibrant manufacturing center through the 1960s, Benton Harbor grew into a home to more than 20,000 people. Today its population is closer to 10,000, about 90 percent of whom are black. The per capita income of its residents is roughly $10,000; about 60 percent of its population is on some form of public assistance.
The scale of poverty in Benton Harbor is extreme, but in a general sense, the town's woes are hardly unique for Michigan, which has been especially hard hit by the disappearance of manufacturing jobs in America. The state's decline has been slow and steady. In the 1950s, its per capita income was 13 percent above the national average; today, it's 7 percent below it. Michigan is the only state whose population has decreased since 2000. With the nation in the midst of a historic joblessness crisis that has left a record number of Americans living below the poverty line, only Nevada and California have higher rates of unemployment.
All over Michigan, counties are scrambling to find ways to reinvent their outdated economies. Two recurring themes in this effort have been attracting tourism and retaining corporations. Michigan's Republican governor, Rick Snyder, a former venture capitalist, recently signed an overhaul of the state tax code that cuts business taxes by $1.7 billion, while committing $25 million to the ''Pure Michigan'' advertising campaign, which features local celebrities like Tim Allen urging people to visit the state.
In this context, the goings-on in Benton Harbor make a certain kind of sense -- not just Harbor Shores, which was intended to lure weekenders from Chicago, roughly two hours away by car, but the other major construction project under way in town: a new, heavily tax-incentivized, $68 million, 270,000-square-foot corporate campus for Whirlpool.
The juxtaposition of Benton Harbor's impoverished population and its two rising monuments to wealth -- all wedged into a little more than four square miles -- make it almost a caricature of economic disparity in America. But at the same time, it offers a window into one possible future for towns across the country, places that can no longer support their own economies or take care of their citizens and may ultimately have no choice but to turn their fate over to private industry and nonprofits. The way things are going, more and more states may start to look like Michigan, and more and more towns may start to look like Benton Harbor.
Benton Harbor's City Hall, a sturdy-looking, red-brick structure on the fringe of its small downtown, was built by the federal government as part of a wave of public-works projects underwritten by the New Deal to help lift the country out of the Depression. A dedication plaque dated 1937 still hangs in the building's small, sour-smelling lobby, surrounded by mundane symbols of the city's decline: an ''Out of Order'' sign taped to a water fountain, an empty job-postings board, a case containing municipal-sports-league trophies, several of whose figurines are missing limbs.
I was greeted there one morning by the man who now runs Benton Harbor, a 67-year-old African-American man with a salt-and-pepper mustache named Joseph Harris. ''Life is beautiful, isn't it?'' Harris said, smiling widely as he led me up the stairs to an empty office that he had just repossessed from the mayor.
Harris is Benton Harbor's ''emergency manager.'' He was first sent to the town in April 2010 under a law that provided the state with limited authority to intervene in the financial affairs of failing cities. His power grew exponentially last spring when Governor Snyder and the state's Republican Legislature passed Public Act 4, which allows emergency managers to renegotiate or terminate contracts, change collective-bargaining agreements, even dissolve local governments (subject to the governor's approval). They have almost unfettered control over their respective cities. This approach to governing is still in its infancy, but if it proves successful in Benton Harbor and elsewhere, emergency managers could be dispatched to troubled municipalities across the state. Snyder has even made it clear that Detroit is a strong candidate for takeover.
There are emergency managers now ensconced in four cities and one school district in Michigan. All have taken some aggressive measures, but none have made as public an impact as Harris. He has fired numerous city administrators and employees and merged Benton Harbor's police and fire departments. He didn't just kick the mayor and city commissioners out of their offices; he also issued a directive prohibiting them from doing anything other than call meetings to order, record their minutes and adjourn them.
Benton Harbor has since become an unlikely cause for Rachel Maddow, who has railed repeatedly against the state's seizure of the town -- ''Ground Zero for American politics,'' as she calls it. The Rev. Jesse Jackson has taken up the cause, too, comparing Benton Harbor to Selma, circa 1965, because of the disenfranchisement of its largely black electorate. Stephen Colbert, for his part, offered a mock tribute to Harris: ''I say good for him, because the people of Benton Harbor brought this on themselves. . . . Benton Harbor's elected officials are incompetent, therefore, by electing them, the voters are incompetent. So they should lose their democracy.''
If all of this sounds like yet more negative attention for Benton Harbor, Harris, the former chief financial officer for the city of Detroit, doesn't seem the least bit bothered by it. Blissfully free of the checks and balances of democratic governments, he is living the dream of every frustrated city administrator. ''I believed I could fix Detroit,'' Harris told me. ''But almost every time I made a recommendation to the mayor, politics got in the way. Here, I don't have to worry about whether the politicians or union leaders like what I'm doing. I have to worry about whether it's the right thing to do. That's the only thing that should matter. I love this job.''
Having neutered the city's elected officials (''I am the mayor and the commission, and I don't need them''), fired the city's finance director (''I'd been told she was incompetent, but she really didn't have a clue'') and city manager (''He was smart and articulate, but he just wasn't doing anything that I couldn't do''), Harris, a former accounting professor, is pretty much single-handedly running Benton Harbor. Small, balding and relentlessly upbeat, he balances the books, negotiates the contracts and cheerfully presides over sparsely attended Town Hall meetings, rolling out his latest cost-saving measures, his reading glasses invariably dangling around his neck. Over the summer, I saw him introduce Benton Harbor's new ''quick response vehicles'' -- essentially pickup trucks outfitted with fire-retardant-foam-releasing contraptions that require a lot less money and manpower to operate than traditional fire trucks.
After we talked for a while, Harris and I walked out for lunch. He was eager to show me around the Arts District, a quaint, upscale enclave several blocks from City Hall where he is renting a loft apartment in a converted warehouse. ''You can't fully appreciate what's going on here until you look around,'' he said as we crossed over into the neighborhood from Benton Harbor's bleak downtown.
The contrast was stark. The streets and sidewalks were freshly paved and lined with trees, planters and retro lampposts, courtesy of $2.3 million in grant money and donations. The Arts District, which encompasses just a few blocks, abuts Harbor Shores; the city's master plan, partly underwritten by Whirlpool a couple of years ago, calls for the two to eventually be connected via a series of footpaths.
After lunch in a crowded cafe, Harris bought a cup of vanilla-bean gelato to eat as he led me through some artists' studios, prodding a jewelry maker to tell me about the revival of the neighborhood.
We left the Arts District, and City Hall came back into view, a state-subsidized high-rise -- Harbor Towers -- looming behind it. Poking his finger into a new planter to make sure it had been watered, Harris told me excitedly about his latest brainstorm: ''I Benton Harbor'' souvenirs, including T-shirts, bumper stickers and shot glasses. The idea, he explained, is to take advantage of Benton Harbor's unflattering appearances on Rachel Maddow's show and ''The Colbert Report'' -- ''to make lemonade out of lemons,'' as he put it. ''We have, as you know, some national notoriety now,'' Harris said. ''I want to take that notoriety and build on it. I want people to walk away from Benton Harbor saying, 'I've been to Benton Harbor.' ''
The merger of Benton Harbor's police, building inspection and fire departments resulted in the creation of a single Department of Public Safety run by the city's chief of police, Roger Lange. When I first met Lange, a big, barrel-chested man, he was speaking at one of Harris's Town Hall meetings, assuring residents that their safety would not be compromised by the cost-saving measures being undertaken. ''Benton Harbor is going to come back,'' he told the small crowd. ''We are coming back. Failure is not an option.''
Later that night, I rode around with Lange as he patrolled the city in a black Dodge Durango. He picked me up just after dark in front of City Hall, and we headed straight into Benton Harbor's decaying residential neighborhoods. ''I normally like to start by visiting one of our more problematic areas,'' Lange said, pulling up in front of an abandoned wood-frame house at the intersection of a liquor-store parking lot and a narrow residential street. Before he had even slowed to a stop, the group of young men who were hanging out on the stoop spotted him and were scattering.
In many ways, Benton Harbor is a miniature version of Detroit, albeit one improbably located along a corridor of bucolic and generally much more affluent lakefront towns. It boomed during World War II, when local plants were transformed into F.D.R.'s so-called arsenal of democracy. (Whirlpool's factories manufactured components for fighter planes.)
As was the case with Detroit, the job opportunities made Benton Harbor a popular destination for blacks coming north as part of what would become known as the Great Migration. For many years, the town was informally segregated, with most blacks crowding into an area of ramshackle homes known as the Flats. In the 1960s and '70s, the jobs started disappearing, and the white flight to neighboring towns began, accelerated by the razing of the Flats, which drove many black residents into formerly white neighborhoods. By 1980, Benton Harbor was overwhelmingly black and poor, with a steadily rising crime rate. And that was before crack. Situated between Chicago and Detroit, Benton Harbor became a hub for the Midwest crack trade beginning in the mid-1980s.
During the 1990s, Benton Harbor was one of the most violent places in the state. Crime rates have ebbed and flowed since then. At least in terms of murders and assaults, the past year and a half has been relatively quiet, though break-ins have been on the rise lately. Harris's budget cuts have cost Lange about a third of his full-time officers, reducing the total number to fewer than 20, though he has been able to replace them with nearly a dozen part-timers. (All of the city's remaining full-time police officers are being cross-trained as firefighters.) The fire chief of the neighboring town of St. Joseph, whose population is a little bit smaller than Benton Harbor's, recently expressed concern about the rising number of calls his men have had to make to the town to assist its firefighters.
Lange grew up in Benton Harbor. He worked a variety of jobs before deciding to become a police officer in his early 30s, when, he says, his ex-wife disappeared with their son and he spent eight months tracking them down in California. ''After that investigation, I thought, You know, I think I can do this,'' he told me.
After starting as a patrolman in Benton Harbor, Lange spent most of his career in the county sheriff's office. He returned to Benton Harbor's police force a couple of years ago after a corruption scandal further damaged the already fragile relationship between the town's largely black population and its largely white police department. Two local police officers were ultimately sent to jail, including the head of the narcotics unit, for violating the civil rights of the town's inhabitants by falsifying search warrants, stealing money and property from residents and embezzling from the department.
Benton Harbor's recent success at curtailing violent crime is partly a tribute to Lange, who leaves the station at 8 o'clock every night after a full day of administrative work to patrol the streets until 2 or 3 in the morning with his deputy director, Robert O'Brien. He is basically carrying out his own version of the ''broken windows'' approach to policing, enforcing previously overlooked laws against quality-of-life crimes like loitering, gambling and public urination.
Over the course of the night, Lange circled the various hotspots -- parks, parking lots, stoops -- where people tend to collect to play dice or buy and sell drugs (generally crack, heroin or cocaine) and dispersed the gathering crowds. ''I've found that this has cut down on a lot of the violent crime,'' he told me. ''When people gamble, they're going to get mad.'' He stopped frequently to move small children out of the streets and back into their homes: ''How you doin'? Where's your parents?''
It was a hot night, and scores of teenage boys -- because of Benton Harbor's high teenage-pregnancy rate, more than 35 percent of its population is under 18 -- were riding around shirtless on bikes. (Nonprofits donate secondhand bikes to the city by the dozens.) ''This house right here has caught fire twice now and was just condemned,'' Lange said, pointing at the burned-out shell of a home, one of more than 100 houses and possibly an old hospital slated to be demolished with grant money from HUD.
Benton Harbor's cityscape shifts from detached homes in serious disrepair -- in some cases, all of the siding has been ripped off; in others, there are no windows, just bedsheets covering empty holes -- to every sort of federally financed housing project imaginable, from high-rise towers to scatter-site homes to barracks-style apartment complexes. Failed attempts at urban renewal are everywhere, often to darkly comic effect. A sign in an empty, overgrown lot reads: ''Project Funded by American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.'' A new, HUD-subsidized housing development called Harbor Town -- ''The Future of Benton Harbor,'' says a sign advertising property-tax-free lots for $7,500 -- is a vast, empty site save for three side-by-side homes. There has been a strong push to encourage homeownership in Benton Harbor, an effort that has included generous grants from both the Michigan State Housing Development Authority and HUD, and a Habitat for Humanity building blitz supported by Jimmy Carter. Nevertheless, nearly 70 percent of its population are renters.
For the first couple of hours of Lange's patrol, the grimness of the surroundings seemed endless. But as the night wore on, the streets started to become familiar. Unlike many areas of Detroit, where the decay spreads out for mile after mile across a sprawling metropolis, in Benton Harbor it's relatively small and self-contained. A lot of grant money has always poured into Benton Harbor, and this is no doubt one of the reasons. Its small size makes its big-city problems seem somehow solvable. ''Everybody thinks they know what to do with Benton Harbor, but not even anyone here knows what to do with Benton Harbor,'' a veteran teacher at Benton Harbor High School told me.
Lange seemed at times like a small-town cop, an African-American Andy Griffith in a Mayberry turned upside-down. At one point, he bantered in a liquor-store parking lot with a local man he called Bulldog.
''Man, give me $2 for a drink,'' Bulldog said.
''Bulldog,'' Lange replied, ''why would I support what I'm trying to get you out of?''
''I'm trying to keep your paperwork down, because if I don't get that $2 I'm gonna go back to breaking into houses,'' Bulldog said.
''You know what, Bulldog? If you break into houses, I'm gonna arrest you.''
''You're not going to catch me. I'm a professional. I can get in there with a credit card -- my food stamp card, as a matter of fact,'' Bulldog said.
''Then I'll make sure you lose your food stamps and lose your freedom,'' Lange said.
Benton Harbor's problems begin and end with the city's chronic joblessness, which has not only crushed the spirit of generations of residents but also destroyed the town's tax base. Delinquency is also a major issue in Benton Harbor: at least 20 percent of its residents can't, or don't, pay their city bills. Harris recently combined the town's trash and water bills in the hope that residents will pay their garbage bills to avoid having their water shut off.
Making matters worse, two of the town's key income sources are drying up. A state revenue-sharing program dating back to the 1930s is being decimated by ongoing state budget cuts, while a neighboring town that has long purchased its water from Benton Harbor -- accounting for half of its water revenues -- just finished building its own water-treatment facility. To offset the loss of at least some of these revenues, Harris is planning to raise water rates as much as 40 percent for Benton Harbor residents.
But the erosion of Benton Harbor's underlying finances has been accompanied by a history of almost farcical mismanagement. Between 2000 and 2010, no fewer than five city administrators filed whistleblower lawsuits against the city, claiming that they had lost their jobs after raising questions about how the elected officials were running the government. Most were settled out of court, costing the city -- or its insurers, anyway -- a total of more than $2 million.
The latest plaintiff was Richard Marsh, Benton Harbor's city manager from March 2008 to September 2009, who claimed that the city commission had declined to renew his contract after he went public with the findings of an independent internal audit and requested an F.B.I. investigation of the government's management of the city. Marsh settled with Benton Harbor for $192,000, but the state subsequently sent its own financial review team to the town, which in turn led to Harris's appointment in April 2010.
That the town's finances were a mess when he arrived is beyond dispute. Benton Harbor was incurring overdraft fees of as much as $100,000 a year. It owed the Internal Revenue Service $678,000 in back taxes and HUD more than $1 million for a loan that had been distributed to three local businesses, all of which had gone bankrupt, leaving the city on the hook for the money.
Harris has paid off the I.R.S. and set up a payment plan with HUD, while cutting Benton Harbor's annual expenses from $8 million to $6 million through a combination of layoffs, new contracts with the police and fire unions and the outsourcing of city services. Broadly speaking, his approach was ripped right from the pages of the conservative playbook: shrink the government and clear the path for private development. One of the first moves Harris made when the state enhanced his powers last spring was to reconfigure the city's planning commission and the Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, which oversee the development of the town. ''The city government has got to provide essential services -- clean the streets, keep the public safe,'' he says. ''But if we provide the essential services, and maybe fix up the streets, guess what, more revenue will come in because of the golf course and Whirlpool's headquarters. Developers are going to come.''
One hundred years ago, an insurance salesman named Lou Upton took the blueprints for a manually operated washing machine to an uncle in Benton Harbor, who quickly figured out how to electrify it. The Upton Machine Company was soon supplying the first washing machines with ''motorized agitation'' to Sears, Roebuck & Company. Before long, this small family business would become the Whirlpool Corporation, the world's largest producer of major home appliances.
For decades, Whirlpool did much of its manufacturing in Benton Harbor, but in the 1980s, it started closing its factories in the city to cut labor costs. The company shut down its last assembly plant in Benton Harbor in 1987. It still has some 4,000 employees in the area, but they are predominantly ''knowledge workers'' -- executives, engineers, analysts.
In a sense, it's surprising that Whirlpool hasn't relocated these employees too. The closest international airports are in Grand Rapids and Chicago, both more than 80 miles away. (There is an old commuter airport in Benton Harbor, closed to commercial traffic for years, that can accommodate Whirlpool's corporate jets.) Then there's the problem of Benton Harbor itself. There can't be too many major international corporations building $68 million campuses across the street from the site of a recently condemned and demolished low-rent motel.
Whirlpool says it is deeply committed to Benton Harbor. ''We're part of the community,'' Jeffrey Noel, Whirlpool's vice president for corporate communications, told me. ''You can't go to a school-board meeting, or a not-for-profit meeting, or a local Little League game where you don't see Whirlpool employees volunteering.''
Whirlpool's logo is affixed to signs all over Benton Harbor, from the Habitat for Humanity homes that its employees helped build to the construction site for a new Benton Harbor Boys and Girls Club that has received several hundred thousand dollars from the Whirlpool Foundation. Benton Harbor's public school system has also been the beneficiary of Whirlpool largess. The Whirlpool Foundation and the foundations of two of the company's former chief executives, including the Upton Foundation, have donated more than $1.5 million this year toward reforming the city's schools, which are among the lowest-achieving in the state. ''The goal is over 10 years to make this one of the premier school districts in the region,'' Marcus Robinson of the Consortium for Community Development told me.
According to Noel, who also serves as the president of Harbor Shores Community Redevelopment, this is all part of a unified strategy to increase Benton Harbor's ability to attract employers, tourists and new homeowners. Shortly before starting construction on the golf course, Harbor Shores issued a report detailing some of its proposals for bringing change to Benton Harbor. They included a free 10-week course, ''Bridges Out of Poverty,'' designed to prepare residents culturally to join the middle class. ''Moving out of the culture of poverty requires more than an increase in financial means . . . and accepting achievement as the driving force in one's life,'' the course description read. ''It will require one to learn and use middle-class language and behaviors.''
Of course, golf is integral to the plan. A national golf program for underprivileged youth will have a state-of-the-art training facility at Harbor Shores, and the high-school golf team is using Harbor Shores as its home course. (A member of the girls' team hit one of the first holes-in-one there.) Harbor Shores will also host the 2012 and 2014 Senior P.G.A. Tour Championships, which are expected to bring 10,000 to 15,000 visitors a day to Benton Harbor. ''Hopefully, when they get off the course, they'll come over here and party with us,'' a real-estate agent who sells Harbor Shores homes told me one afternoon in the Arts District.
The narrative of the redevelopment of Benton Harbor has been distilled into a multimedia exhibit in a sleek, modern-looking office on Main Street called the Transformation Center. There's a scale model of Harbor Shores and photographs of a happy, diverse community in full bloom. A promotional video tells the story of Benton Harbor's rebirth. ''Leaving poverty behind, that's what we're going to do,'' the narration concludes.
There's no question that a transformation is under way in Benton Harbor. The city's downtown may still be deserted, but the Arts District isn't. At night, you can invariably find a large crowd gathered at the Livery, a microbrewery in a former stable.
''When we moved here, this area was a dump,'' one of the Livery's owners, Leslie Pickell, told me one evening at the bar. Along with two other friends, Pickell, who is 50, and her significant other, Michael Gardner -- the two met at a Grateful Dead concert in California in the early 1990s -- bought the vacant building for $25,000 in 2003. They closed on the property two weeks before Benton Harbor broke out into race riots (locals prefer the term ''civil disturbance''). The microbrewery opened in August 2005, and business has grown steadily ever since.
It's hard not to admire Pickell's pioneering spirit. But it's also hard not to wonder what the transformation of Benton Harbor will mean for the vast majority of the town's population. You don't see many black faces in the Arts District, and apart from high-school golfers, how many locals are going to be turning up at Harbor Shores -- even with the discounted greens fees of $40 available to town residents who are up to date on their city bills?
Marcus Muhammad is a basketball legend in Benton Harbor. As a student at the high school in the early 1990s, he led his team to two straight appearances in the Michigan state finals. Photographs of him still line the wall outside the school gym, along with those of other local basketball greats, including Wilson Chandler, who played last year in the N.B.A.
Then known as Marcus Singer, Muhammad set the career 3-point scoring record at DePaul University and might have played professionally had his interest in basketball not been overtaken by his growing involvement with the Nation of Islam. After graduating from DePaul, he changed his last name and took a job teaching at the Nation of Islam's school in Chicago.
Muhammad was drawn back to Benton Harbor in 2003, in the wake of the crack epidemic. ''It was like a hurricane had blown through here,'' he told me. ''I could see the carnage, economically, politically, socially.''
Muhammad works as a counselor at the high school and coaches the varsity basketball team, which gives him the local stature of a high-school football coach in Texas. He is also one of the town's nine city commissioners. At 6-foot-6, with the muscular build of an elite athlete, he cuts an unmistakable figure in Benton Harbor. He is always carrying a book -- I saw him with a Bobby Fischer biography on one occasion and Robert A. Caro's ''Power Broker'' on another -- and dresses in French-cuffed shirts, three-piece suits and ties.
Inside his office at the high school, where a GQ magazine cover of President Obama is prominently displayed, I asked Muhammad what he thought about Harbor Shores. ''You're rebuilding and redeveloping Benton Harbor, but toward what end, what's the aim?'' he replied. ''They're going to have to show us that their ultimate goal isn't gentrification.''
This is the competing narrative of what's going on in Benton Harbor: It's being converted into a resort town for wealthy weekenders and Whirlpool employees -- that, when all is said and done, its struggling black population will either be driven out by the development or reduced to low-wage jobs cleaning hotel rooms, carrying golf bags or cutting grass.
According to this counternarrative, Whirlpool decided years ago to re-engineer the town for its own purposes and has since used a variety of local nonprofits to purchase land from the cash-starved city and to tap into the stream of federal and state grant money that flows into Benton Harbor. By this telling, the state was complicit in the plot, taking over Benton Harbor in what Muhammad calls ''a coup d'etat'' not because of its financial condition -- there are plenty of nearly broke towns in Michigan -- but to ensure that Harbor Shores would proceed without any interference from the local government. ''This was not a one-night stand,'' Muhammad told me, referring to the takeover and redevelopment of Benton Harbor. ''It was orchestrated, methodical.''
Hearing Muhammad and others in Benton Harbor who share his point of view, it's easy to feel as if you're in the presence of conspiracy theorists. Still, there's no doubt that the state, which put millions into Harbor Shores and is providing Whirlpool with as much as $19 million in tax credits to build its new campus on a brownfield site, has a lot invested in the redevelopment of Benton Harbor. In this sense at least, Benton Harbor is by no means just another struggling Michigan town.
To skeptics of the redevelopment of Benton Harbor, Whirlpool looks less like a good corporate citizen than another company manipulating the system, leveraging its power to maximize its tax breaks and taking advantage of the town's access to federal and state grant money. (It's worth noting that Whirlpool hasn't paid any federal corporate income taxes in the United States for the last three years, partly, the company says, because of losses due to the recession.)
More to the point, imagine that you live in a city where generations of residents have struggled to find work, a city that has stubbornly resisted decades worth of attempts to reverse its fortunes. Then imagine being told, without a hint of irony, that the answer to your problems is a $500 million, high-end golf resort. Oh, and also, an unelected state appointee will be running your city until further notice.
Between the almost-delusional optimism of those who support the redevelopment of Benton Harbor and the almost-paranoid mistrust of those who don't, spending time in the town can be a profoundly disorienting experience. If there is a single symbol of these colliding perspectives, a Benton Harbor Rorschach test, it's holes 7 though 9 of Harbor Shores, which stretch out across the dunes overlooking Lake Michigan. They were built on the edge of 22 acres of a public beachfront park that Benton Harbor's cash-strapped government agreed to lease to Harbor Shores for 105 years starting at $35,000 a year. Depending on your point of view, they represent either the constructive repurposing of a poorly maintained, underutilized stretch of lakefront property, or an unconscionable violation of the public trust.
One of the biggest challenges facing Benton Harbor is the city's staggering level of political disengagement, which has made it almost impossible to know what residents want from their representatives. In last month's citywide election, only about 1,400 of Benton Harbor's citizens voted; in 2009, the turnout was less than half that. Democracy has now officially been suspended in Benton Harbor; unofficially, it was suspended years ago.
Benton Harbor's elected city commissioners are unpaid. (The state's emergency-manager act eliminated what had been a largely symbolic salary.) Most of them have full-time jobs and don't spend much time in City Hall. The exception is Commissioner Dennis Knowles. Gaunt, manic and missing several teeth, Knowles, who is unemployed, can invariably be found behind an old desktop computer in a narrow, musty office in City Hall scrutinizing Harris's actions.
Knowles is commissioner of Benton Harbor's Fourth Ward, which, in addition to Harbor Shores, encompasses some of the town's poorest streets. He was elected in 2009 with 84 votes. ''This is a side note, but he sleeps in the building,'' Harris told me one morning last summer at City Hall. ''We have cameras so we can tell the times of day when he goes out to use the restroom.''
Harris now says Knowles no longer sleeps at City Hall. Knowles insists he never did: ''What Joe Harris saw was a very dedicated commissioner who works very late hours in the building and still does.''
To defenders of Michigan's takeover of Benton Harbor, like the Republican state representative Al Pscholka, Knowles is Exhibit A for the case for intervention. ''He got his friends down at the soup kitchen, took them to the polls and told them to vote,'' Pscholka, a sponsor of the state's emergency-manager legislation, told me one morning in Benton Harbor. ''It was like play government over there,'' he said, referring to the town's City Hall.
Knowles, who participated in an unsuccessful campaign to recall Pscholka, vehemently disputes this characterization and points out that the soup kitchen he sometimes eats in isn't even in his ward.
Though he has been stripped of official authority, Knowles still hosts a weekly radio broadcast from a studio in the basement of City Hall on which he addresses issues of concern to local residents, like how to deal with a new state law that limits lifetime welfare benefits to four years: ''You may also want to get into growing your own food, because it's going to get to that point. . . . What you thought might have been forever is now gone, kaput, finished.''
Knowles also uses the show to criticize the redevelopment of Benton Harbor. ''You see development going on all around you, with no opportunities. You see what's going on with the Harbor Shores program or project. . . . You see development of housing. You see all of these constructs, the Whirlpool campus,'' he said on a recent broadcast. ''I've heard some of you say, 'We're gonna leave Benton Harbor.' But where do you go, anywhere in America, where you won't run into the same problem, when you're poor anywhere you go?''
When I met Knowles inside City Hall over the summer, he was wearing an old T-shirt and a pair of soiled, torn jeans. He turned on his own recorder to tape our conversation and then proceeded to lay out some of his problems with how Harris was spending the city's money. He expressed concern that Harris is prioritizing demolition and new construction, which he said will leave a lot of residents with no place to live.
As we spoke, Knowles printed out a stack of documents to show me. One was a new form that aspiring businesses need to fill out to get a license to operate in Benton Harbor. Knowles underlined a sentence stating that no one who has been convicted of a felony will be granted a license, which he said would disqualify a lot of the town's residents.
After we'd talked for a while, we got in my rental car and went for a drive around his ward. ''It's beautiful, but it's not for us,'' Knowles said, as we rode through Harbor Shores. ''It's not for poor people.'' I had asked Knowles if he slept at City Hall, and he took me by his house, which he said he rents for about $250 a month. ''I don't sell dope,'' he volunteered, explaining how he pays his rent. ''I come out and hustle -- electrical jobs, cutting grass, whatever.'' On our way back to City Hall, we passed the Transformation Center -- ''a con job,'' Knowles called it.
When I dropped him back at City Hall, Knowles got out of the car and said goodbye, then poked his head back in the passenger window. ''Hey,'' he said, ''can you spare a couple of bucks so I can get myself a bag of chips and a pop?''
Harris doesn't know how much longer he's going to be in Benton Harbor. The state can't be eager for him to leave and restore the city's democratically elected government to power, particularly with professional golf coming to Harbor Shores this spring. ''It's a risk for the P.G.A. to put the tournament here,'' Harris told me. ''The commission could very easily sabotage things and with no regrets.''
But Harris says he has already accomplished much of what he was charged with doing in Benton Harbor. And there's no guarantee that the emergency-manager legislation will survive much longer: there's a signature-collection effort to force its repeal as well as a lawsuit before the state Supreme Court arguing that it's unconstitutional.
In the short term, Harbor Shores could be a tough sell to developers. Plans for a water park have already been jettisoned, and no hoteliers have expressed sufficient interest to build there yet.
Long-term, though, Benton Harbor's future as a tourist town seems foreordained. Harbor Shores is well under way, and in any case, what are the city's other options?
In between Harbor Shores' champions and detractors are a lot of people who question the wisdom of pinning the town's hopes on a golf course but who acknowledge that something is better than nothing.
Harbor Shores is not without precedent. Recently, a golf course helped revive a troubled neighborhood in Atlanta known as East Lake. But at this point, it seems more likely that Harbor Shores will simply bring a new population to Benton Harbor and hasten the town's fracturing into two distinct communities: the second-home owners and Whirlpool executives who live inside Harbor Shores and frequent the Arts District -- and everyone else.
The question is, can ''everyone else'' include a stable, working-class population, or is Benton Harbor beyond repair?
On my last night in town, Lange invited me to ride along with him again. The county sheriff's office was going to be executing a federal search warrant inside Benton Harbor's city limits, and Lange and one of the town's on-duty officers would be on hand for it.
At around 11 o'clock, we went to the county sheriff's office for a briefing. Photographs of the subject, a suspected crack dealer, and his house were passed among the 10 officers who would be carrying out the search. The lieutenant gave everyone instructions and the convoy of vehicles set off. As we rounded the corner onto the subject's quiet, residential street, all of the cars shut off their lights so as not to attract attention.
The subject was sitting on his stoop. He turned and ran into his house when he saw the cars approaching. A few officers were right behind him. They knocked down the front door with a battering ram, secured the house and began to search its rooms.
The various vehicles sat idling out front, their headlights illuminating the area. Lange and a few of the other officers stood talking, straining to hear one another over the high-pitched whine coming from under the hood of the Benton Harbor squad car.
''That's not good,'' Lange said.
''It's been like that for a month,'' the Benton Harbor officer replied. ''I think it's the alternator.''
A few minutes later, the engine's squeals still echoing through the otherwise quiet street, Lange turned back to the officer. ''You'd better shut that thing off,'' he said.
''I would,'' the officer replied, ''but I'm afraid I won't be able to start it up again.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 36 this weekend about Benton Harbor, Mich., misstates the title of an official in a neighboring city and refers imprecisely to the concern he expressed about the rising number of Benton Harbor's requests for help from his department. The official, who was not quoted by name, is the fire chief of St. Joseph, not the police chief, and Benton Harbor has been requesting help for its firefighters, not for its police force.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Benton Harbor of the present. (MM36)
Harbor Shores -- one vision of Benton Harbor's future (MM37)
The Consultant: Marcus Robinson, president of the Consortium for Community Development. (MM39)
The Law: Roger Lange, chief of the combined fire and police departments.
The Street: A view from an abandoned property in Benton Harbor. (MM41)
The Overseer: Joseph Harris, appointed as ''emergency manager'' by the governor. (MM42)
 The Skeptic: Marcus Muhammad, a community leader, at a town-hall meeting. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK PETERSON/REDUX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); LAKES (72%); SUPERFUND (70%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); WETLANDS (56%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (81%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



754 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Invasion Of the Head Snatchers

BYLINE: By AUSTIN CONSIDINE

 BODY:
IT wasn't the first time the fashion industry was slammed for extreme Photoshopping. But an entirely fake body?
That was the collective clucking earlier this month when it was exposed by Aftonbladet, the Swedish newspaper, that H&M had superimposed the heads of real models onto computer-generated mannequins for an online swimwear campaign. 
''In the future, even models' faces won't be considered perfect enough for online fast fashion, and we'll buy all of our clothing from cyborgs,'' said a writer for the style blog Jezebel. The Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation blasted the retailer for ''creating unrealistic physical ideals.''
But the practice is unlikely to end. Putting aside the technological advances that make digitally altered photographs harder to detect, the boom in fashion e-commerce means that radical retouching is here to stay and will probably go further.
It can be cheaper to superimpose a model's face on a virtual body than it is to photograph a model in multiple outfits, said Ashley Mears, an assistant sociology professor at Boston University and former model, whose book, ''Pricing Beauty,'' explores the harsh economic realities of modeling.
For working models, it represents an existential threat. Models are generally paid whenever their faces are used. But they're also paid for their time, and using a virtual mannequin means money taken out of their already-skinny pockets. (The Bureau of Labor Statistics says the median wage for models in the United States was $13.18 an hour in 2008.)
''If H&M just shot her head smiling at different angles, they'd have to pay for hair and makeup, plus the time to prepare her, but would not have to pay for the time it would take her to change in and out of multiple outfits,'' Dr. Mears said. ''That can be costly indeed.''
In a way, the H&M models should be glad they were included at all. To keep costs low, many online retailers crop out models' heads entirely to avoid multiple-use fees. That is why so many sites, including low-end Wal-Mart and high-end Net-a-Porter, display page after page of headless dresses and sweaters.
(In one creative work-around, Alexander Wang, for his new e-commerce site last spring, partnered with the artist Terence Koh to obscure models' faces with halo-shaped fluorescent bulbs: visually striking, but still a bag over the models' heads.)
If there is any good modeling news in the H&M situation, it's that a pretty face remains a bankable asset. H&M might have gotten away with a virtual body, but it did not dare create a virtual face. Consumers would have been turned off.
Scientists call it the ''uncanny valley'' theory, which holds that people will tolerate only so much artificial human likeness before attraction turns into revulsion. Think lifelike sex dolls or Michael Jackson's nose.
''There is a very striking uncanny effect for faces'' but less for nonmoving bodies, said Nancy Etcoff, an assistant clinical professor at Harvard Medical School. ''If they added a super-realistic but not-real face, they'd become uncanny, and therefore frightening, eerie and creepy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HEADS, THEY LOSE: At the H&M Web site, the faces are real
 the bodies aren't. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); RETAILERS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); WRITERS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

COMPANY: H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (85%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

TICKER: HM.B (STO) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) SWEDEN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



755 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Arrests as Occupy Protest Turns to Church

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
From his spot at the center of Duarte Square in Lower Manhattan, Matt Sky watched on Saturday as hundreds of protesters streamed into the public areas of the triangle-shaped space at the center of an ideological tug of war between onetime allies turned adversaries: Occupy Wall Street and Trinity Church.
That began a long day of demonstrations and marches that extended as far as Times Square and resulted in at least 50 arrests. 
By noon, protesters had streamed into the square from all directions under cold, cloudy skies to reinforce the vibrancy of a movement swept last month from another space, Zuccotti Park, and signal a resolve against ecclesiastical leaders resisting their wish to set up an encampment on property owned by the venerable Episcopal church.
''Everything about this movement is momentum,'' said Mr. Sky, 27, an Internet consultant from the East Village. ''We need to show people that we are still relevant.''
Even before the protesters were displaced on Nov. 15, Trinity gave many of them hot chocolate, blankets and a place to rest at a space owned by the church. But when the Occupy movement expressed an interest in setting up an organizing camp on vacant Trinity property at Canal Street and Avenue of the Americas, the church said no.
The Occupy Wall Street forces then directed their skills at the church: They took their arguments to the streets. In familiar fashion, police officers converged on the area, standing around the perimeter.
A flier distributed by protesters summed up their mood: ''While the event may include a reoccupation, the event itself is a broader celebration and expansion of Occupy Wall Street,'' it said. It also advised people to bring backpacks, warm clothes and sleeping bags.
About 3 p.m., several hundred people began to slowly march along the blocks around the park. They went about five blocks north, then circled back. They were carrying homemade wooden ladders, draped with yellow banners. At Grand Street, the protesters made a move: They threw a ladder fashioned into a portable staircase against a chain-link fence separating the sidewalk from the church's property.
Many people went over the fence that way. Others lifted the fence from the bottom, allowing protesters to squeeze into the space. The protesters were joined by a few clerics, including Bishop George Packard, a retired former supervisor of Episcopal military chaplains.
Within minutes, police officers began taking people into custody. About 4:15 p.m., Bishop Packard was led into a police van.
On the sidewalk, other officers pushed into a line of protesters, ordering them to disperse.
But hundreds of demonstrators marched up Seventh Avenue on Saturday evening, in the street and on the sidewalk -- and against traffic.
Police vehicles -- cars, scooters, vans -- followed, and there were more arrests.
''Is there a problem?'' said one protester, who was on a bicycle, as a police officer grabbed him on West 29th Street, near Seventh Avenue.
''The problem is you're under arrest,'' an officer replied.
Earlier in the day, the Rev. Stephen Chinlund, 77, an Episcopal priest who retired seven years ago, held a placard reading: ''Trinity Hero of 9/11. Be a Hero Again.''
The mission of the church was to help those in need, he said.
The church's rector, the Rev. Dr. James H. Cooper, expressed sadness over the protesters' actions on Saturday.
''O.W.S. protestors call out for social and economic justice; Trinity has been supporting these goals for more than 300 years,'' Dr. Cooper said in a statement. ''We do not, however, believe that erecting a tent city at Duarte Square enhances their mission or ours.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a picture caption on Saturday with an article about the deteriorating relations between Occupy Wall Street protesters and the Trinity Wall Street church over a gravel lot near Canal Street and Avenue of the Americas in Manhattan that demonstrators want to use as an alternate campsite referred incorrectly in some editions to the lot's proximity to the New York Stock Exchange. It is about a mile from the exchange, not ''barely one block'' away. (As the article correctly noted, the church is about a block from the exchange.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); RELIGION (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011



756 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: Dec. 18 -- 24

 BODY:
Television
Kathryn Shattuck
Admit it: The holidays were made for ogling. The Swarovski crystal star atop the neighbor's 10-foot tree. The ribbon-wrapped Porsche Panamera in the driveway down the block. The lighting extravaganza sapping enough electricity to power a village for a year. And no one does good old-fashioned voyeurism better than HGTV.
Forget the dismal economy, if you will. There's no scrimping evident in ''CELEBRITY HOLIDAY HOMES,'' on Sunday at 8 p.m., as the country singer Jo Dee Messina uses tree branches and berries to embellish her Nashville house; the actor Wayne Brady conjures up Hawaii in his Los Angeles home with coconuts, seashells and starfish; and the actress Alison Sweeney goes Hollywood glam with a fantasyland of purple and silver. 
''HOLLYWOOD AT HOME,'' on Thursday at 8 p.m., peeks behind the doors of some of the rich and moderately famous, for whom going over budget hardly seems to register. Take in the Blue Ridge from the sunroom of the actress Andie MacDowell's Tudor in the Biltmore Estate section of Ashville, N.C. Admire Kelly Bensimon's TriBeCa loft with its floor-to-ceiling shelves of the Louboutins and Blahniks necessary to any Real Housewife. Marvel at the country crooner George Jones's 78-acre spread in Franklin, Tenn. Those in a more altruistic mood can tune in to a repeat broadcast of ''WHITE HOUSE CHRISTMAS 2011,'' on Tuesday at 9 p.m. Here staff members and 136 volunteers decorate the ''People's House'' -- yes, it's yours to claim -- as they interpret the theme ''Shine, Give, Share'' with a Gold Star tree honoring American troops who have died while serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Theater
Ben Brantley
David Hyde Pierce -- or at least the inhibited, gentlemanly figure he most often incarnates onstage and screen -- is usually at his funniest under siege. He has been beleaguered by (among other pests and assailants) a Black Knight (in 2005 in the Broadway hit ''Monty Python's Spamalot''); an exhaustibly boorish playwright (opposite Mark Rylance in ''La Bete'' last season); a flock of homicidal show people (in the 2007 musical ''Curtains,'' for which he won a Tony) and a desperate bank robber (in the film ''The Perfect Host,'' released this year).
So it should come as no surprise to find this former ''Frasier'' star embattled again in his latest venture. In Molly Smith Meltzer's ''CLOSE UP SPACE,'' which opens on Monday in a Manhattan Theater Club production, Mr. Pierce portrays a harried (and, needless to say, fastidious) book editor facing a slew of professional and personal slings and arrows, including a killer deadline and a star writer about to walk out on him. Those giving him a hard time include Rosie Perez (as the disgruntled best-selling author) and Colby Minifie (as a disgruntled daughter). Leigh Silverman directs. Through Feb. 5, City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org; $80.
Dance
Claudia La Rocco
Throw a dart anywhere in the five boroughs this week, and you're likely to hit a theater playing some version of ''The Nutcracker.'' Raunchy, classic, cabaret, big screen: no matter your tastes, there will be something to suit them. Unless, of course, you don't actually like ''The Nutcracker.'' Then, well, the pickings are slim. But they're not without intriguing possibilities: one is the Kitchen's long-running series DANCE AND PROCESS, which features dancers (typically accomplished) who are turning their talents to choreography. Participants receive three-month residencies involving technical and administrative support and weekly meetings with mentor choreographers. At the end of it all the public can come see what they've made of the experiences.
This iteration consists of Julie Alexander, Michelle Boule and Martin Lanz, working under the supervision of Yasuko Yokoshi. I'm not very familiar with Mr. Lanz, but he has worked with interesting artists. And Ms. Alexander and Ms. Boule -- just knowing that both are performing gives this evening promise. Still, contemporary art is always something of a gamble, and this is especially true with a series like Dance and Process. You won't know what you're in for until the lights have dimmed. For those of you who aren't comforted by the thought that you know exactly what you're getting with holiday classics, a little bit of risk may be just what you're looking for. 8 p.m., Thursday and Friday, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, Ext. 11, thekitchen.org; $12.
Film
Neil Genzlinger
Why has it taken a decade for ''MISS MINOES,'' an appealingly eccentric Dutch film, to secure a theatrical release in the United States? Maybe because there's no way to describe this droll fantasy that makes it sound anything other than preposterous.
Miss Minoes is a cat who turns into a human and befriends an inept journalist named Tibbe. He feeds her fish; she feeds him information she has garnered through the feline gossip chain that leads to front-page stories. Told you it was an odd one. Carice van Houten, who later appeared in ''Valkyrie'' and ''Repo Men,'' plays the title character. When viewers, and Tibbe, first meet her, she is about 20 feet off the ground. ''I'm sorry,'' she tells Tibbe. ''I have to climb a tree when I see a dog.''
The film is based on a children's story by Annie M. G. Schmidt. It opens on Friday in Chicago and at Cinema Village, 22 East 12th Street, Greenwich Village; (212) 924-3363, cinemavillage.com.
At Anthology Film Archives a series called ANARCHISM ON FILM runs all week, with offerings that include ''The Angry Brigade,'' a 1973 film from Britain; ''Bastards of Utopia,'' a 2010 work about Croatian activists; and ''La Commune,'' about the Paris Commune of 1871. Of particular interest: an appearance on Friday at 7 p.m. by Steven Fischler and Joel Sucher of Pacific Street Films in conjunction with a showing of their ''Red Squad,'' a 1972 documentary about police surveillance. 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village; (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org, $9.
Classical
Steve Smith
It's a time of year when you start to feel as if you can't cross a street or turn a corner without bumping into a ''Messiah.'' Among all the tuneful celebrations on offer this week, one of the finest takes place at Corpus Christi Church on Sunday afternoon, when the commendable concert series Music Before 1800 hosts a performance by STILE ANTICO, a superlative young English choral ensemble.
The ensemble's program, ''Puer Natus Est,'' is based on its 2010 CD of that title, a deliriously lovely collection of Christmas-theme works by Tudor-era English composers like Tallis, Byrd, Sheppard and Taverner. What Daniel J. Wakin of The New York Times rightly claimed of that album holds true here: ''Listening will restore meaning to the holidays amid the retail onslaught.'' Amen. Sunday at 4 p.m., 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266, mb1800.org; $10 to $45, or $10 student rush tickets at the door.
If you've reached your saturation point with holiday fare, another kind of traditional offering arrives on Wednesday evening: PHILL NIBLOCK, a composer, multimedia artist and concert organizer, mounts his annual Winter Solstice marathon. Mr. Niblock, a pioneering Minimalist whose renown falls short of his achievements, has long presented six-hour surveys of his music and film work at Experimental Intermedia, his loft space at 224 Centre Street at Grand Street in Little Italy. But this year his shivering drones and gauzy visions will resonate in Roulette's handsome new Art Deco space in Brooklyn. Wednesday at 6 p.m., 509 Atlantic Avenue, Boerum Hill, (917) 267-0363; $15, or $10 for members and students.
Pop
Nate Chinen
Two New York jazz musicians of low-key superfluency are in their element this week. GILAD HEKSELMAN, a guitarist born and raised in Israel, appears on Tuesday at Smalls. It's his usual haunt and still the best place to encounter his music, which reflects the flowing detail of contemporary post-bop, but with subtle, humanizing touches.
He will be working with the same musicians as on ''Hearts Wide Open'' (Le Chant du Monde), his inviting third album: Mark Turner, an experienced spellbinder on tenor saxophone; Joe Martin, an unflappable bassist; and Marcus Gilmore, a coolly shape-shifting drummer. You'll have other chances to see this quartet -- notably at the Winter Jazzfest, on Jan. 6 -- but why wait that long? 8:30 to 11 p.m., 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 252-5091, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20.
AARON GOLDBERG also made a smartly accomplished jazz album this year: ''Bienestan'' (Sunnyside), a collaboration with his fellow pianist and composer Guillermo Klein. For a four-night run at the Jazz Standard he leads his working trio with the bassist Reuben Rogers and the drummer Eric Harland -- a band with history and a clear head and the skills to make any complex maneuver feel natural. Tuesday through Friday at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25, $30 on Friday.
Art
Robin Pogrebin
The cabinetmaker DUNCAN PHYFE is considered on par with Chippendale or Boulle. Yet this neo-classical furniture craftsman is only now having what is reputed to be his first retrospective in 90 years. On Dec. 20 the Metropolitan Museum of Art opens ''Duncan Phyfe: Master Cabinetmaker in New York,'' which should serve as something of a primer for a contemporary audience. The exhibition gathers nearly 100 works, including some never-before-seen pieces from the Phyfe family, as well as the cabinetmaker's own tool chest. Through May 6, (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org.
The Met is also turning its attention to 15th-CENTURY ITALY, considered the first great age of European portraiture. ''The Renaissance Portrait From Donatello to Bellini,'' which starts Wednesday, explores how artists working in Florence, Venice and the Italian courts began to produce recognizable likenesses and expressions of personality in portraying the people around them. The museum has gathered about 160 works by the likes of Botticelli, Verrocchio, Pisanello and Mantegna, ranging from painting and manuscript illumination to marble sculpture and bronze medals. Through March 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (74%); BANK ROBBERY (70%); COUNTRY MUSIC (70%); THEATER & DRAMA (67%); ROBBERY (60%); THEATER (55%)

COMPANY: D SWAROVSKI & CO (58%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327215 GLASS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (58%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (58%); SIC3231 GLASS PRODUCTS MADE OF PURCHASED GLASS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (72%) HAWAII, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



757 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: The Grim Good Cheer of the Irish

BYLINE: By JOHN BANVILLE. 
The author of ''The Sea'' and, most recently, ''The Infinities.''

 BODY:
Dublin
IN an early memory of mine, if it is a real memory, I was taken one smoky winter afternoon by my Uncle Tom to Rosslare Harbor, some 10 miles from our hometown of Wexford in the southeast corner of Ireland. It was the early 1950s, and I would have been 6 or 7 years old. At the harbor's pier, the ferry to Britain was preparing to depart. Memory magnifies, and the vessel I recall is the size of an ocean liner, its sheer flank beetling over the dock, its mighty smokestacks puffing out great gray cumuli and its hooter shaking the air with its deep-throated bellowings.
The unlikeliness of this magnitude leads me to suspect that what I am entertaining is not a recollection of my own but a fragment of exaggerated folk-memory. For I see what seems an impossibly vast number of weeping mothers and ashen-faced fathers, bidding farewell to a host of young men, each one carrying a cheap suitcase, who are streaming on board the ship, bound for London, Birmingham, Coventry, to seek work in Britain's postwar reconstruction drive. 
Perhaps I am not deceived. Tens of thousands of young men and women did leave Ireland in those years. We had been neutral in the war, and therefore missed out on the largess of the Marshall Plan. Our economy was based almost entirely on agriculture, and many a desperate household subsisted on the few pounds or dollars sent home weekly by exiled sons and daughters.
Today, the Irish of my generation have a distinct sense of deja vu. Tens of thousands have left Ireland in this year alone. The age of the Celtic Tiger, those fat years in the 1990s and early 2000s, the first period in our history when we knew what it was to be rich, has given way to a time of crashes, debts, austerity and, once again, emigration. There is hardly a person here who has not been affected. The hangover that the years of false plenty left us with is the worst we have ever suffered -- the worst, but not the first. And if there was ever a people that knew how to handle a hangover, surely it is we.
Irish memory is long, and darkened by bitterness. The country has suffered repeated waves of emigration, much of it compulsory, ever since the Flight of the Earls at the beginning of the 17th century, when English forces defeated the army of the Irish aristocracy and drove its leaders into exile. After the disastrous uprising of 1798 and throughout the rebellious century that followed, thousands of what would nowadays be called freedom fighters were deported to the penal colonies of Australia. In the 1840s -- the Black Forties, as the decade is called -- Ireland's population was disastrously reduced by famine and the mass departure of the starving and the destitute; the vessels that carried emigrants to America were known, with good reason, as coffin ships.
The violent poetry of leave-taking is ingrained in the Irish consciousness. I once read an account of a Black Forties parting between a young man setting out for America and his father. The two men stood face to face and, instead of speaking, danced their farewell, their stony gazes locked, while the womenfolk wept. A far cry from ''Riverdance.''
Much has changed since then, of course. The young people leaving Ireland today are nothing like the pitch-capped rebels of '98, the starvelings of the Black Forties or the youths with their suitcases on that 1950s ferry. They are well educated and, for the most part, middle class -- I.T. operatives, engineers, construction workers, off in search of jobs no longer to be had here. In a depressingly neat variation, many are immigrants themselves -- Polish masons, Czech electricians, Romanian plumbers -- who came during the building bubble of the Celtic Tiger years and are now moving on to London to work on the construction of the Olympic Village.
In the old days, emigrants would in all probability never see their families again. One of the most heart-rending results of the mass departures of the 1950s are the aging, single and destitute Irishmen living friendless and lost to their families in that urban England, so much of which they helped to rebuild after the war. But now emigrants are less likely to forget, and be forgotten. Budget airline travel and communications technology mean they can return home from the far side of the world, even if only virtually, as often as they wish.
One of the biggest differences is that today Ireland is the Good Boy of Europe, a shining example of newfound fiscal rectitude when compared to what the more prudent northern European countries consider the irredeemably profligate Greeks, Portuguese, Spaniards and Italians. This is a novel position for us. It is as if the shiftless urchin who used to skulk and daydream in the back row has been summoned to the front of the class by President Nicolas Sarkozy and Germany's latter-day Iron Chancellor to be presented with a medal and scroll.
Our most effective succor, however, may rest in what has not changed at all: our persistently grim cheerfulness. One could say, as some do, that we Irish are congenitally masochistic, that we secretly welcome misfortune. But it does not feel like that. Rather, we have always had a propensity to laugh at ourselves, which stands us in good stead in these melancholy times, when laughter, even the self-mocking kind, is at a premium.
Yet laughter cannot allay some memories. Here, from my sad store, is another. It is the sweltering summer of 1969, and I am living in London. Walking through Hyde Park one Sunday afternoon I hear, faintly, a familiar sound. At first I cannot identify it, then I do: it is the leathery smack of a hurley stick hitting a hurling ball. Hurling, along with Gaelic football, is the national game of Ireland; it is very fast, and highly skilled, but can look to the uninitiated eye like an all-out battle between two bands of nimble, swift and very angry warriors armed with wooden battle-axes. I stop, and scan the greensward, and see, in the distance, in a long glade between two rows of trees, a pair of young men in shirtsleeves, one at each extreme of the grassy ride, hitting a hurling ball to each other, over and over, from end to far end, and my heart is pierced by this image of yearning, of loneliness, by this quintessence of homesickness in the vast world of exile.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mrs. Thomas McKessy, of Limerick, Ireland, upon her arrival in New York with 10 of her 21 children in March 1926. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (78%); FAMINE (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); STARVATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); DEPORTATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



758 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Import Fighters? No, Just Punchlines

BYLINE: By JOHN PEARLEY HUFFMAN

 BODY:
ADDRESSING a group of 450 civic leaders at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan on Oct. 3, 1968, the chairman of General Motors, James M. Roche, did something almost sacrilegious for an auto executive: he talked about a future product.
Roche boldly announced that in the fall of 1970, G.M. would begin producing a small car designed for the American market and priced from $1,900 to $2,300. Developed under the code name XP-887, the subcompact would be about a foot shorter than G.M.'s smallest offering at the time, the Chevrolet Corvair.
And it would, no doubt, be better than that star-crossed and litigation-plagued import fighter from a decade earlier.
Roche's plan was largely a reaction to the commercial threat presented by import brands, which were increasingly attracting young buyers. In 1968, the domestic automakers sold nine out of 10 new cars in America. But import sales were expected to top a million in 1969 -- a number even Detroit couldn't ignore. 
But in answering that challenge, American automakers were by the end of 1970 producing three of the most notoriously awful cars ever built -- the American Motors Gremlin, Chevrolet Vega and Ford Pinto -- and opening the door for the Japanese onslaught of the 1970s and 1980s.
The new models were so terrible that even 40 years later, some shoppers still won't consider Detroit's brands. Their flaws made for cars that comedians would savage, liability lawyers would chase and crestfallen owners would try to pawn off on unsuspecting victims.
''Led by General Motors, the giant domestic auto industry was going to flex its muscle and swat the pesky fly of imported cars off its shoulder,'' John Z. DeLorean, the former Chevrolet general manager, said in J. Patrick Wright's 1979 book, ''On a Clear Day You Can See General Motors.''
The Gremlin, Vega and Pinto were small enough to compare directly with the import standard bearer of the time, the Volkswagen Beetle. All three of the domestic entries were conventional designs -- shrunken versions of the era's gargantuan sedans -- with their engines in front driving the rear wheels.
G.M.'s ambitions for the XP-887, which would become the Vega, were huge. Instead of being developed by the engineering staff of a single brand, the Vega was designed by the corporate engineering staff under the direction of Edward N. Cole, an executive vice president. It was then handed to Chevrolet's managers to sell.
The Vega would be an all-new car unrelated to any other in G.M.'s portfolio, using an all-new engine, and it would be built at the company's newest, most automated plant, in Lordstown, Ohio. ''The Vega came just as the bean counters were rising at G.M.,'' said John Heitmann, a professor of history at the University of Dayton, about G.M.'s changing corporate culture.
''From the first day I stepped into the Chevrolet division, in 1969, it was obvious that the Vega was in real trouble,'' DeLorean said. ''General Motors was pinning its image and prestige on this car, and there was practically no interest in it in the division.''
Chevrolet had proposed its own small-car design and was turned down; as production approached, the Chevy staff's disdain for the corporate model -- heavy for its size and more costly to produce -- grew.
Worst of all, its 4-cylinder engine was an unfortunate mix of innovation and archaic design. The cylinder head was made of cast iron, a conventional practice for the time, but a special aluminum alloy was chosen for the engine block.
''What resulted,'' DeLorean said, ''was a relatively large, noisy, top-heavy combination of aluminum and iron, which cost far too much to build, looked like it had been taken off a 1920 farm tractor and weighed more than the cast-iron engine Chevy had proposed, or the foreign-built 4-cylinder engine the Ford Pinto was to use.''
The engine wasn't particularly powerful; breathing through a one-barrel carburetor, it produced a piddling 90 horsepower; with a two-barrel carburetor, that rose to 110. When the ratings were revised in 1972 to net power output -- from the gross horsepower rating used previously -- those figures dropped to 80 and 90 horsepower.
''To pass a vehicle going 50 miles an hour,'' wrote John S. Radosta of The New York Times in a test of a 1971 model, ''a Vega with the 90-horsepower engine and automatic or 3-speed manual transmission needs at least one-third of a mile and 20 seconds. That's a long time to be sitting in the left lane of a two-lane road.''
Ford, meanwhile, rushed to ready the Pinto in light of Roche's announcement and was further pressured by the ascension of a small-car advocate, Lee A. Iacocca, to the company's presidency.
''The Pinto was the first real 'world car,' '' Mr. Heitmann said, noting Ford's production strategy. ''It was innovative in the sense that Ford set up a global assembly line with the engines and transmissions made in Europe and the car itself assembled in the United States.''
Like the Vega, the 1971 Pinto was engineered to a tough $2,000 price point with an equally tough 2,000-pound weight goal. The base engine was a 1.6-liter 4-cylinder rated at 75 horsepower; a 100 horsepower 2-liter 4 was optional.
''The Pinto is rolling proof of an economic fact of life,'' a 1971 car test in The Times observed. ''In building an American car for the $2,000 market something has to give. Pinto disappoints in acceleration, braking, ride quality and rear-seat comfort.''
American Motors, though much smaller than Ford and G.M., decided that despite its scant resources it needed a small car to retain the budget-minded buyers who had been loyal Rambler owners. It was forced to punt.
Instead of engineering a new car, the company's design chief, Dick Teague, took the existing Hornet compact car, knocked 12 inches out of its wheelbase (down to 96 inches) and eliminated virtually all of the sheet metal beyond the rear wheels. The awkwardly proportioned result was named the Gremlin.
The biggest advantage for American Motors of this simplified product development scheme was that the Gremlin reached the market in April 1970, about five months before the Vega and Pinto. Lacking the resources to develop a 4-cylinder engine, A.M.C. resorted to installing either 3.3- or 3.8-liter versions of the Rambler in-line 6 in the Gremlin.
Weirdly unbalanced, the nose-heavy Gremlin was primitive even in the context of the early 1970s. It was noisy and handled poorly -- and like every A.M.C. product suffered from haphazard quality control. But it was never the disaster the Pinto and Vega would prove to be.
The Vega went on sale on Sept. 10, 1970, as a 1971 model, but labor strife at the Lordstown plant initially kept the car in short supply. Even before the model year was through, reliability complaints emerged.
Its major problem was an inadequate engine cooling system and the fragile marriage of an iron cylinder head with an aluminum block. The metals expanded at different rates as they heated up and the head gasket couldn't keep things sealed. Much of the time, the engines were ruined. Beyond that, by 1972 the Vega was also subject to three major safety recalls, and owners were noticing the appearance of rust in cars just a few months old.
While more reliable, the Pinto, which went on sale the day after the Vega, would earn a terrifying reputation. In 1977, while the car was still in production, a scathing article by Mark Dowie in Mother Jones magazine asserted that Ford had knowingly and cynically produced a car prone to bursting into flames in rear-end collisions -- even at low speeds.
Citing an internal Ford memo he said was in his possession, Mr. Dowie claimed that Ford had put a value on each life lost in such an accident at $200,000. For that reason, he wrote, the company decided that modifications to better protect the fuel tank from rupturing -- and possibly prevent as many as 180 deaths a year -- was, at $11 a car, uneconomical.
The problem wasn't that the Vega, Pinto and Gremlin didn't sell. Kept alive by their makers through the '70s fuel crises, they sold by the millions over long production lives that covered much of the '70s. The disaster was that they let down so many Americans.
In 1968 Toyota, Datsun and VW were more of a nuisance than a threat, and Honda was still a year away from selling its first car in the United States. But by 1980, partly because of the door left open to them by the failed Detroit subcompacts, those imports were firmly established as value leaders.
''The Pinto, Gremlin and Vega represented everything that Toyota was not,'' Mr. Heitmann, the historian, said.
Four decades later, Detroit is still fighting the perception that it doesn't take small cars seriously. But with tougher fuel economy rules coming, getting past the stigma of the small '70s cars is more important than ever.
Correction: December 25, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about American subcompacts of the 1970s misidentified the author of a 1979 book, ''On a Clear Day You Can See General Motors.'' He is J. Patrick Wright -- not John Z. DeLorean, who was quoted extensively in the book.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THREE LITTLE PIGS: Detroit's homegrown subcompacts included, from left, the 1977 Ford Pinto, 1971 Chevrolet Vega and 1973 A.M.C. Gremlin. (AU1)
 VARIETY SHOW: The Kammback wagon was one of several Vega body styles. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE BROCHURE COLLECTION OF STEVE HAYES) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (70%); LITIGATION (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



759 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; LOOSE ENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Panning Salon

BYLINE: By JIM WINDOLF. 
Jim Windolf is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair.

 BODY:
The record $52.4 billion spree shoppers went on from Black Friday through Cyber Monday was really just for show. Beneath the holiday spending, consumers are grouchy. You can sense their mood just by scanning the posts at consumer-review sites like Trip Advisor and Yelp.
''Produce59'' at Trip Advisor had this to say about a room at the Comfort Inn & Suites in Fredericksburg, Va.: ''The heating/AC unit was nice and quiet; however, the thermostat is on the wall, so turning the knobs directly on the unit will not get you any results.'' We'll keep that in mind. (''ExArmyRN'' had this nit to pick: ''It would have been nice if the mini-refrigerator had a small freezer section.'') 
Viaggio Ristorante and Lounge in Chicago is positively reviewed, but ''Johnny T.'' logged in at Yelp to say this:
''The salad was passable ... The orecchiette was ... a little less than a-ok. Serviceable, perhaps... I enjoyed the white beans but there was no heat to the dish ... This was bland. I added red pepper flakes to the dish in search of some sort of seasoning. At the end of the meal, I was left feeling confused.''
Who are these people? I'm not sure, but they are more exacting than professional critics.
If you're staying at, say, the Econo Lodge in Cave City, Ky., what do you expect at breakfast time? ''Tropicanadan'' weighed in at Trip Advisor: ''The breakfast was adequate but unremarkable.'' Really? At an Econo Lodge? In Kentucky?
If the consumer-review Web sites are any indication, the American consumer has become a pain in the neck. Maybe we were spoiled in the blinged-out 1990s and early '00s and have yet to adjust to hard times. Take ''Lisa C.,'' of Millbrae, Calif., posting as follows at Yelp after having visited a Starbucks with her boyfriend:
''the barista ... looked at me confused when i said 'grande hot apple chai' as if he didn't know what it was ... then he said 'apple juice infused into chai tea?' i responded, 'yeah...' my bf usually gets that 'ice vanilla latte with restretto (sp?)' and they stared at him too ... my drink didn't taste that well ... something was off balance and i ended up tossing it...''
We used to understand that convenience comes at a price. The food you get at McDonald's or Burger King is not meant to be a major culinary event. But now the chains, perhaps in response to customers hopped up on Food Network shows, have gone upscale. McDonald's plans a $1 billion, Starbucks-like makeover of its restaurants, and Burger King has Whopper Bar restaurants. With the new frills come new expectations. After visiting a McDonald's in San Diego, a Yelp contributor, ''Caroline B.,'' wrote:
''The Gelato was some of the worst I have ever had in my entire life. The 'Watermelon' looks like pink colored wall putty and had no discernible flavor of fruit of any kind. No one in our group was able to stomach it. I actually threw it away.''
She went on to say that she was no fan of the restrooms. Not because they were dirty. Because of their ''faux marble and faux flowers.''
You can't help wondering whether a full-fledged depression might be the only real cure for what ails us.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RAND RENFROW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); FAST FOOD (87%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (88%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



760 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: The Dismal Education

BYLINE: By YORAM BAUMAN. 
Yoram Bauman, a co-author of ''The Cartoon Introduction to Economics,'' is an environmental economist at the University of Washington.

 BODY:
THE stereotypes about economists are well known: that we're selfish Grinches; that we don't read human interest stories because they don't interest us; that the only reason we don't sell our children is that we think they'll be worth more later.
But are the stereotypes true? And if so is the cause nature or nurture? In other words, are selfish people disproportionately likely to become economists? Or is there something about being an economist (or being on the receiving end of economics education) that makes people selfish? 
Academic research suggests that there's a good deal of truth to the stereotype. Many studies have looked at how economists behave in what are called public goods situations. A key feature of these situations is that you can benefit from public goods even if you don't contribute to them. You can watch PBS without making a donation; you can enjoy clean air even if you drive a car that pollutes. Such goods, however, give rise to the so-called free-rider problem: acting selfishly makes sense for each individual (why sacrifice if you don't have to?) but as more and more people choose to act selfishly, the good disappears and everyone loses.
Public goods run counter to Adam Smith's ''invisible hand'' theory in that self-interested behavior by individuals does not, as the theory would have it, lead to good outcomes for society as a whole. These situations flummox just about everybody -- look at all the trouble that nations and individuals are having in dealing with climate change -- but economists and economics students appear to be especially likely to free-ride and act in ways that are ''anti-social'' rather than ''pro-social.''
My recent research with the economist Elaina Rose, published in August in the Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, has looked at a real-life public goods situation faced by students at the University of Washington. During our study period (1999 to 2002), when students went online to register for classes each quarter, they were asked if they wanted to donate $3 to support WashPIRG, a left-leaning activist group. Students were also asked if they wanted to donate $3 to Affordable Tuition Now (ATN), a group that lobbied for ''sensible tuition rates, quality financial aid and adequate funding.''
You may question whether these groups actually serve the common good, but that's mostly beside the point. Regardless of the groups' actual social value, a purely self-interested individual would choose to free-ride rather than contribute; after all, a single $3 donation is not going to make a noticeable difference in tuition rates.
Our data showed that each group received donations from about 10 percent of the students each quarter. Although students remained anonymous, we could look at all of the 8,743 members of our data set and determine what their majors were, when they took economics classes (if at all) and whether or not they donated to ATN or WashPIRG during each quarter of our study period.
In line with previous research, what we found supported the Grinch stereotype. About 5 percent of economics majors donated to WashPIRG in a given quarter, compared with 8 percent for other arts and sciences majors. A similar divide -- 10 percent versus almost 15 percent -- occurred with respect to donations to ATN.
We also found evidence that the giving behavior of students who became economics majors was driven by nature, not nurture: taking economics classes did not have a significant negative effect on later giving by economics majors.
But taking economics classes did have a significant negative effect on later giving by students who did not become economics majors. One interpretation of these results is that students who were not economics majors suffered a ''loss of innocence'' after taking an economics class, presumably because of exposure to certain ideas (like the invisible hand) or certain people (like economics teachers).
In contrast, students who became economics majors did not suffer a loss of innocence. This may be because they lost their innocence in high school -- other research suggests that pre-university exposure to economics reduces giving -- or perhaps even because economics majors were ''born guilty.''
Our research suggests that economics education could do a better job of providing balance. Learning about the shortcomings as well as the successes of free markets is at the heart of any good economics education, and students -- especially those who are not destined to major in the field -- deserve to hear both sides of the story.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); LOBBYING (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



761 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 6157 words

HEADLINE: The Pakistanis Have a Point

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
As an American visitor in the power precincts of Pakistan, from the gated enclaves of Islamabad to the manicured lawns of the military garrison in Peshawar, from the luxury fortress of the Serena Hotel to the exclusive apartments of the parliamentary housing blocks, you can expect three time-honored traditions: black tea with milk, obsequious servants and a profound sense of grievance.
Talk to Pakistani politicians, scholars, generals, businessmen, spies and journalists -- as I did in October -- and before long, you are beyond the realm of politics and diplomacy and into the realm of hurt feelings. Words like ''ditch'' and ''jilt'' and ''betray'' recur. With Americans, they complain, it's never a commitment, it's always a transaction. This theme is played to the hilt, for effect, but it is also heartfelt.
''The thing about us,'' a Pakistani official told me, ''is that we are half emotional and half irrational.'' 
For a relationship that has oscillated for decades between collaboration and breakdown, this has been an extraordinarily bad year, at an especially inconvenient time. As America settles onto the long path toward withdrawal from Afghanistan, Pakistan has considerable power to determine whether the end of our longest war is seen as a plausible success or a calamitous failure.
There are, of course, other reasons that Pakistan deserves our attention. It has a fast-growing population approaching 190 million, and it hosts a loose conglomerate of terrorist franchises that offer young Pakistanis employment and purpose unavailable in the suffering feudal economy. It has 100-plus nuclear weapons (Americans who monitor the program don't know the exact number or the exact location) and a tense, heavily armed border with nuclear India. And its president, Asif Ali Zardari, oversees a ruinous kleptocracy that is spiraling deeper into economic crisis.
But it is the scramble to disengage from Afghanistan that has focused minds in Washington. Pakistan's rough western frontier with Afghanistan is a sanctuary for militant extremists and criminal ventures, including the Afghan Taliban, the Pakistani Taliban, the notorious Haqqani clan and important remnants of the original horror story, Al Qaeda. The mistrust between Islamabad and Kabul is deep, nasty -- Afghanistan was the only country to vote against letting Pakistan into the United Nations -- and tribal. And to complicate matters further, Pakistan is the main military supply route for the American-led international forces and the Afghan National Army.
On Thanksgiving weekend, a month after I returned from Pakistan, the relationship veered precipitously -- typically -- off course again. NATO aircraft covering an operation by Afghan soldiers and American Special Forces pounded two border posts, inadvertently killing 24 Pakistani soldiers, including two officers. The Americans said that they were fired on first and that Pakistan approved the airstrikes; the Pakistanis say the Americans did not wait for clearance to fire and then bombed the wrong targets.
The fallout was painfully familiar: outrage, suspicion and recrimination, petulance and political posturing. Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the chief of the army and by all accounts the most powerful man in Pakistan, retaliated by shutting (for now and not for the first time) the NATO supply corridor through his country. The Pakistanis abruptly dropped out of a Bonn conference on the future of Afghanistan and announced they would not cooperate with an American investigation of the airstrikes. President Obama sent condolences but balked at the suggestion of an apology; possibly the president did not want to set off another chorus of Mitt Romney's refrain that Obama is always apologizing for America. At this writing, American officials were trying to gauge whether the errant airstrike would have, as one worried official put it, ''a long half-life.''
If you survey informed Americans, you will hear Pakistanis described as duplicitous, paranoid, self-pitying and generally infuriating. In turn, Pakistanis describe us as fickle, arrogant, shortsighted and chronically unreliable.
Neither country's caricature of the other is entirely wrong, and it makes for a relationship that is less in need of diplomacy than couples therapy, which customarily starts by trying to see things from the other point of view. While the Pakistanis have hardly been innocent, they have a point when they say America has not been the easiest of partners.
One good place to mark the beginning of this very, very bad year in U.S.-Pakistani relations is Dec. 13, 2010, when Richard C. Holbrooke died of a torn aorta. Holbrooke, the veteran of the Balkan peace, had for two years held the thankless, newly invented role of the administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan. The antithesis of mellow, Holbrooke did not hit it off with our no-drama president, and his bluster didn't always play well in Kabul or Islamabad either.
But Holbrooke paid aggressive attention to Pakistan. While he was characteristically blunt about the divergent U.S. and Pakistani views, he understood that they were a result of different, calculated national interests, not malevolence or mere orneriness. He was convinced that the outlooks could be, if not exactly synchronized, made more compatible. He made a concentrated effort to persuade the Pakistanis that this time the United States would not be a fair-weather friend.
''You need a Holbrooke,'' says Maleeha Lodhi, a well-connected former ambassador to Washington. ''Not necessarily the person but the role.'' In the absence of full-on engagement, she says, ''it's become a very accident-prone relationship.''
On Jan. 27, a trigger-happy C.I.A. contractor named Raymond Davis was stuck in Lahore traffic and shot dead two motorcyclists who approached him. A backup vehicle he summoned ran over and killed a bystander. The U.S. spent heavily from its meager stock of good will to persuade the Pakistanis to set Davis free -- pleading with a straight face that he was entitled to diplomatic immunity.
On May 2, a U.S. Navy Seals team caught Osama bin Laden in the military town Abbottabad and killed him. Before long, American officials were quoted questioning whether their Pakistani allies were just incompetent or actually complicit. (The Americans who deal with Pakistan believe that General Kayani and the director of the Inter-Services Intelligence agency, Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, were genuinely surprised and embarrassed that Bin Laden was so close by, though the Americans fault the Pakistanis for not looking very hard.) In Pakistan, Kayani faced rumbles of insurrection for letting Americans violate Pakistani sovereignty; a defining victory for President Obama was a humiliation for Kayani and Pasha.
In September, members of the Haqqani clan (a criminal syndicate and jihadi cult that's avowedly subservient to the Taliban leader Mullah Omar) marked the 10th anniversary of 9/11 with two theatrical attacks in Afghanistan. First a truck bomb injured 77 American soldiers in Wardak Province. Then militants rained rocket-propelled grenades on the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, forcing our ambassador to spend 20 hours locked down in a bunker.
A few days later the former Afghan president, Burhanuddin Rabbani, spread his arms to welcome an emissary from the Taliban to discuss the possibility of peace talks. As they embraced, the visitor detonated a bomb in his turban, killing himself, Rabbani and the talks. President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, without any evidence that American officials are aware of, accused Pakistan of masterminding the grotesque killing in order to scuttle peace talks it couldn't control.
And two days after that, Adm. Mike Mullen, the outgoing chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, took to Capitol Hill to suggest that Pakistani intelligence had blessed the truck bomb and embassy attack.
His testimony came as a particular shock, because if the turbulent affair between the United States and Pakistan had a solid center in recent years, it was the rapport between Mullen and his Pakistani counterpart, General Kayani. Over the four years from Kayani's promotion as chief of the army staff until Mullen's retirement in September, scarcely a month went by when the two didn't meet. Mullen would often drop by Kayani's home at the military enclave in Rawalpindi, arriving for dinner and staying into the early morning, discussing the pressures of command while the sullen-visaged general chain-smoked Dunhills. One time, Kayani took his American friend to the Himalayas for a flyby of the world's second-highest peak, K2. On another occasion, Mullen hosted Kayani on the golf course at the Naval Academy. The two men seemed to have developed a genuine trust and respect for each other.
But Mullen's faith in an underlying common purpose was rattled by the truck bombing and the embassy attack, both of which opened Mullen to the charge that his courtship of Kayani had been a failure. So -- over the objection of the State Department -- the admiral set out to demonstrate that he had no illusions.
The Haqqani network ''acts as a veritable arm of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency,'' he declared. ''With ISI support, Haqqani operatives planned and conducted that truck-bomb attack as well as the assault on our embassy.''
Several officials with access to the intelligence told me that while the Haqqanis were implicated in both attacks, there was no evidence of direct ISI involvement. A Mullen aide said later that the admiral was referring to ISI's ongoing sponsorship of the Haqqanis and did not mean to say Pakistan authorized those specific attacks.
No matter. In Pakistan, Mullen's denunciation led to a ripple of alarm that U.S. military ''hardliners'' were contemplating an invasion. The press had hysterics. Kayani made a show of putting the Pakistani Army on alert. The Pakistani rupee fell in value.
In Washington, Mullen's remarks captured -- and fed -- a vengeful mood and a rising sense of fatalism about Pakistan. Bruce O. Riedel, an influential former C.I.A. officer who led a 2009 policy review for President Obama on Pakistan and Afghanistan, captured the prevailing sentiment in an Op-Ed in The Times, in which he called for a new policy of ''containment,'' meaning ''a more hostile relationship'' toward the army and intelligence services.
''I can see how this gets worse,'' Riedel told me. ''And I can see how this gets catastrophically worse. . . . I don't see how it gets a whole lot better.''
When Gen. David H. Petraeus took over the U.S. military's Central Command in 2008, he commissioned expert briefing papers on his new domain, which sprawled from Egypt, across the Persian Gulf, to Central Asia. The paper on Afghanistan and Pakistan began, according to an American who has read it, roughly this way: ''The United States has no vital national interests in Afghanistan. Our vital national interests are in Pakistan,'' notably the security of those nuclear weapons and the infiltration by Al Qaeda. The paper then went on for the remaining pages to discuss Afghanistan. Pakistan hardly got a mention. ''That's typical,'' my source said. Pakistan tends to be an afterthought.
The Pakistani version of modern history is one of American betrayal, going back at least to the Kennedy administration's arming of Pakistan's archrival, India, in the wake of its 1962 border war with China.
The most consequential feat of American opportunism came when we enlisted Pakistan to bedevil the Soviet occupiers of Afghanistan in the 1980s. The intelligence agencies of the U.S. and Pakistan -- with help from Saudi Arabia -- created the perfect thorn in the Soviet underbelly: young Muslim ''freedom fighters,'' schooled in jihad at Pakistani madrassas, laden with American surface-to-air missiles and led by charismatic warriors who set aside tribal rivalries to war against foreign occupation.
After the Soviets admitted defeat in 1989, the U.S. -- mission accomplished! -- pulled out, leaving Pakistan holding the bag: several million refugees, an Afghanistan torn by civil war and a population of jihadists who would find new targets for their American-supplied arms. In the ensuing struggle for control of Afghanistan, Pakistan eventually sided with the Taliban, who were dominated by the Pashtun tribe that populates the Pakistan-Afghanistan frontier. The rival Northern Alliance was run by Tajiks and Uzbeks and backed by India; and the one thing you can never underestimate is Pakistan's obsession with bigger, richer, better-armed India.
As long as Pakistan was our partner in tormenting the Soviet Union, the U.S. winked at Pakistan's nuclear-weapons program. After all, India was developing a nuclear arsenal, and it was inevitable that Pakistan would follow suit. But after the Soviets retreated, Pakistan was ostracized under a Congressional antiproliferation measure called the Pressler Amendment, stripped of military aid (some of it budgeted to bring Pakistani officers to the U.S. for exposure to American military values and discipline) and civilian assistance (most of it used to promote civil society and buy good will).
Our relationship with Pakistan sometimes seems like a case study in unintended consequences. The spawning of the mujahadeen is, of course, Exhibit A. The Pressler Amendment is Exhibit B. And Exhibit C might be America's protectionist tariffs on Pakistan's most important export, textiles. For years, experts, including a series of American ambassadors in Islamabad, have said that the single best thing the U.S. could do to pull Pakistan into the modern world is to ease trade barriers, as it has done with many other countries. Instead of sending foreign aid and hoping it trickles down, we could make it easier for Americans to buy Pakistani shirts, towels and denims, thus lifting an industry that is an incubator of the middle class and employs many women. Congress, answerable to domestic textile interests, has had none of it.
''Pakistan the afterthought'' was the theme very late one night when I visited the home of Pakistan's finance minister, Abdul Hafeez Shaikh. After showing me his impressive art collection, Shaikh flopped on a sofa and ran through the roll call of American infidelity. He worked his way, decade by decade, to the war on terror. Now, he said, Pakistan is tasked by the Americans with simultaneously helping to kill terrorists and -- the newest twist -- using its influence to bring them to the bargaining table. Congress, meanwhile, angry about terrorist sanctuaries, is squeezing off much of the financial aid that is supposed to be the lubricant in our alliance.
''Pakistan was the cold-war friend, the Soviet-Afghan-war friend, the terror-war friend,'' the minister said. ''As soon as the wars ended, so did the assistance. The sense of being discarded is so recent.''
A Boston University-educated economist who made his money in private equity investing -- in other words, a cosmopolitan man -- Shaikh seemed slightly abashed by his own bitterness.
''I'm not saying that this style of Pakistani thinking is analytically correct,'' he said. ''I'm just telling you how people feel.''
He waved an arm toward his dining room, where he hung a Warhol of Muhammad Ali. ''We're just supposed to be like Ali -- take the beating for seven rounds from Foreman,'' he said. ''But this time the Pakistanis have wised up. We are playing the game, but we know you can't take these people at their word.''
With a timetable that has the United States out of Afghanistan, or mostly out, by the end of 2014, Pakistan has leverage it did not have when the war began.
One day after 9/11, Richard Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, summoned the head of Pakistani intelligence for a talking to. ''We are asking all of our friends: Do they stand with us or against us?'' he said. The following day, Armitage handed over a list of seven demands, which included stopping Al Qaeda operations on the Pakistani border, giving American invaders access to Pakistani bases and airspace and breaking all ties with the Taliban regime.
The Pakistanis believed from the beginning that Afghanistan had ''American quagmire'' written all over it. Moreover, what America had in mind for Afghanistan was antithetical to Pakistan's self-interest.
''The only time period between 1947 and the American invasion of Afghanistan that Pakistanis have felt secure about Afghanistan is during the Taliban period,'' from 1996 to 2001, says Vali Nasr, an American scholar of the region who is listened to in both academia and government. Now the Bush administration would attempt to supplant the Taliban with a strong independent government in Kabul and a muscular military. ''Everything about this vision is dangerous to Pakistan,'' Nasr says.
Pakistan's military ruler at the time, Pervez Musharraf, saw the folly of defying an American ultimatum. He quickly agreed to the American demands and delivered on many of them. In practice, though, the accommodation with the Taliban was never fully curtailed. Pakistan knew America's mission in Afghanistan would end, and it spread its bets.
The Bush-Musharraf relationship, Vali Nasr says, ''was sort of a Hollywood suspension of disbelief. Musharraf was a convenient person who created a myth that we subscribed to -- basically that Pakistan was on the same page with us, it was an ally in the war on terror and it subscribed to our agenda for Afghanistan.''
But the longer the war in Afghanistan dragged on, the harder it was to sustain the illusion.
In October, I took the highway west from Islamabad to Peshawar, headquarters of the Pakistan Army corps responsible for the frontier with Afghanistan. Over tea and cookies, Lt. Gen. Asif Yasin Malik, the three-star who commanded the frontier (he retired this month) talked about how the Afghan war looked from his side of the border.
The official American version of the current situation in Afghanistan goes like this: By applying the counterinsurgency strategy that worked in Iraq and relying on a surge of troops and the increasingly sophisticated use of drones, the United States has been beating the insurgency into submission, while at the same time standing up an indigenous Afghan Army that could take over the mission. If only Pakistan would police its side of the border -- where the bad guys find safe haven, fresh recruits and financing -- we'd be on track for an exit in 2014.
The Pakistanis have a different narrative. First, a central government has never successfully ruled Afghanistan. Second, Karzai is an unreliable neighbor -- a reputation that has not been dispelled by his recent, manic declarations of brotherhood. And third, they believe that despite substantial investment by the United States, the Afghan Army and the police are a long way from being ready to hold the country. In other words, America is preparing to leave behind an Afghanistan that looks like incipient chaos to Pakistan.
In Peshawar, General Malik talked with polite disdain about his neighbor to the west. His biggest fear -- one I'm told Kayani stresses in every meeting with his American counterparts -- is the capability of the Afghan National Security Forces, an army of 170,000 and another 135,000 police, responsible for preventing Afghanistan from disintegrating back into failed-state status. If the U.S. succeeds in creating such a potent fighting force, that makes Pakistanis nervous, because they see it (rightly) as potentially unfriendly and (probably wrongly) as a potential agent of Indian influence. The more likely and equally unsettling outcome, Pakistanis believe, is that the Afghan military -- immature, fractious and dependent on the U.S. Treasury -- will disintegrate into heavily armed tribal claques and bandit syndicates. And America, as always, will be gone when hell breaks loose.
General Malik studied on an exchange at Fort McNair, in Washington, D.C., and has visited 23 American states. He likes to think he is not clueless about how things work in our country.
''Come 2015, which senator would be ready to vote $9 billion, or $7 billion, to be spent on this army?'' he asked. ''Even $5 billion a year. O.K., maybe one year, maybe two years. But with the economy going downhill, how does the future afford this? Very challenging.''
American officials will tell you, not for attribution, that Malik's concerns are quite reasonable.
So I asked the general if that was why his forces have not been more aggressive about mopping up terrorist sanctuaries along the border. Still hedging their bets? His answer was elaborate and not entirely facile.
First of all, the general pointed out that Pakistan has done some serious fighting in terrorist strongholds and shed a lot of blood. Over the past two years, Malik's forces have been enlarged to 147,000 soldiers, mainly by relocating more than 50,000 from the Indian border. They have largely controlled militant activities in the Swat Valley, for example, which entailed two hard offensives with major casualties. But they have steadfastly declined to mount a major assault against North Waziristan -- a mountainous region of terrorist Deadwoods populated by battle-toughened outlaws.
Yes, Malik said, North Waziristan is a terrible situation, but his forces are responsible for roughly 1,500 miles of border, they police an archipelago of rough towns in the so-called Federally Administered Tribal Areas, or FATA, and by the way, they had a devastating flood to handle last year.
''If you are not able to close the Mexican border, when you have the technology at your call, when there is no war,'' he said, ''how can you expect us to close our border, especially if you are not locking the doors on your side?''
Americans who know the area well concede that, for all our complaints, Pakistan doesn't push harder in large part because it can't. The Pakistan Army has been trained to patrol the Indian border, not to battle hardened insurgents. They have comparatively crude weaponry. When they go up against a ruthless outfit like the Haqqanis, they tend to get killed. Roughly 4,000 Pakistani troops have died in these border wars -- more than the number of all the allied soldiers killed in Afghanistan.
''They're obviously reluctant to go against the Haqqanis, but reluctant for a couple of reasons,'' an American official told me. ''Not just the reason that they see them as a potential proxy force if Afghanistan doesn't go well, but also because they just literally lack the capability to take them on. They've got enough wars on their hands. They've not been able to consolidate their gains up in the northern part of the FATA, they have continued problems in other areas and they just can't deal with another campaign, which is what North Waziristan would be.''
And there is another, fundamental problem, Malik said. There is simply no popular support for stepping up the fight in what is seen as America's war. Ordinary Pakistanis feel they have paid a high price in collateral damage, between the civilian casualties from unmanned drone attacks and the blowback from terror groups within Pakistan.
''When you go into North Waziristan and carry out some major operation, there is going to be a terrorist backlash in the rest of the country,'' Malik told me. ''The political mood, or the public mood, is 'no more operations.' ''
In late October, Hillary Clinton arrived in Islamabad, leading a delegation that included Petraeus, recently confirmed as C.I.A. director, and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, Mullen's successor as chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Petraeus used to refer to Holbrooke as ''my diplomatic wingman,'' a bit of condescension he apparently intended as a tribute. This time, the security contingent served as diplomacy's wingmen.
The trip was intended as a show of unity and resolve by an administration that has spoken with conflicting voices when it has focused on Pakistan at all. For more than four hours, the Americans and a potent lineup of Pakistani counterparts talked over a dinner table.
Perhaps the most revealing thing about the dinner was the guest list. The nine participants included Kayani and Pasha, but not President Zardari or Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani, who provided the dining room at his own residence and made himself scarce. The only representative of the civilian government was Clinton's counterpart, the new foreign minister, Hina Rabbani Khar, a 34-year-old rising star with the dark-haired beauty of a Bollywood leading lady, a degree in hospitality management from the University of Massachusetts and, most important, close ties to the Pakistani military.
For a country that cherishes civilian democracy, we have a surprising affinity for strong men in uniform. Based on my conversations with American officials across the government, the U.S. has developed a grudging respect for Kayani, whom they regard as astute, straightforward, respectful of the idea of democratic government but genuinely disgusted by the current regime's thievery and ineptitude. (We know from the secret diplomatic cables disclosed by WikiLeaks that Kayani has confided to American officials his utter contempt for his president and ''hinted that he might, however reluctantly, have to persuade President Zardari to resign.'') Zardari, whose principal claim to office is that he is the widower of the assassinated and virtually canonized Benazir Bhutto, has been mainly preoccupied with building up his patronage machine for elections in 2013. The Americans expect little from him and don't see a likely savior among his would-be political challengers. (As this article goes to press, Zardari is recovering from chest pains in a hospital in Dubai; there are rumors he won't return.) So, Kayani it is. The official American consensus is less enamored of Kayani's loyal intelligence underling, General Pasha, whose agency consorts with terrorists and is suspected of torturing and killing troublemakers, including journalists, but Pasha is too powerful to ignore.
The day after the marathon dinner, Clinton's entourage took over the Serena Hotel for a festival of public diplomacy -- a press conference with the foreign minister, followed by a town meeting with young Pakistanis and then a hardball round-table interview with a circle of top editors and anchors.
Clinton's visit was generally portrayed, not least in the Pakistani press, as a familiar ritual of America talking tough to Pakistan. In the town meeting, a woman asked why America always played the role of bossy mother-in-law, and that theme delighted editorial cartoonists for days.
But the private message to the Pakistanis -- and a more careful reading of Clinton's public performance -- reflected a serious effort to reboot a troubled relationship. Clinton took care to pay tribute to Pakistani losses in the war against terror in the past decade -- in addition to the military, an estimated 30,000 civilian dead, the equivalent of a 9/11 every year. She ruled out sending American ground troops into Pakistani territory. She endorsed a Pakistani plea that U.S. forces in Afghanistan do a better job of cleaning up militant sanctuaries on their own side of the border.
Questioned by a prominent television anchor, she repudiated Mullen's testimony, not only disavowing any evidence of ISI complicity in the attack on America's embassy in Kabul but also soft-peddling the spy agency's coziness with terrorists.
''Now, every intelligence agency has contacts with unsavory characters,'' she said. ''I don't think you would get any denial from either the ISI or the C.I.A. that people in their respective organizations have contacts with members of groups that have different agendas than the governments'. But that doesn't mean that they are being directed or being approved or otherwise given a seal of approval.''
That particular riff may have caused jaws to clench at the C.I.A. compound in Langley, Va. The truth is, according to half a dozen senior officials with access to the intelligence, the evidence of Pakistan's affinity for terrorists is often circumstantial and ambiguous, a matter of intercepted conversations in coded language, and their dealings are thought to be more pragmatic than ideological, more a matter of tolerating than directing, but the relationship goes way beyond ''contacts with unsavory characters.''
''They're facilitating,'' one official told me. ''They provide information to the Haqqanis, they let them cross back and forth across the border, they let this L.E.T. guy (the leader of the dangerous Lashkar-e-Taiba faction of Kashmiri terrorists) be in prison and not be in prison at the same time.''
And yet the Pakistanis have been helpful -- Abbottabad aside -- against Al Qaeda, which is America's first priority and which the Pakistanis recognize as a menace to everyone. They have shared intelligence, provided access to interrogations and coordinated operations. Before the fatal border mishap Thanksgiving weekend, one U.S. official told me, anti-terror cooperation between the C.I.A. and Pakistani intelligence had been ''very much on the upswing.''
The most striking aspect of Clinton's trip, however, was her enthusiastic embrace of what is now called ''reconciliation'' -- which is the polite word for negotiating with the Taliban.
Pakistan has long argued that the way to keep Afghanistan from coming to grief is to cut a deal with at least some of the Taliban. That would also mean Afghanistan could get by with a smaller, cheaper army. The notion has been anathema to the Americans tasked with killing Taliban; a principled stand against negotiating with terrorists is also a political meme that acquires particular potency in election seasons, as viewers of the Republican debates can attest.
Almost unnoticed, though, reconciliation has moved to a central place in America's strategy and has become the principal assignment for U.S. officials in the region. Clinton first signaled this in a speech to the Asia Society last February, when she refocused Afghanistan strategy on its original purpose, isolating the terrorists at war with America, meaning Al Qaeda.
The speech was buried beneath other news at the time, but in early October, Tom Donilon, Obama's national security adviser, met Kayani in Abu Dhabi to stress to skeptical Pakistani leaders that she was serious. Clinton's visit to Islamabad with her generals in tow was designed to put the full weight of the U.S. behind it.
Clinton publicly acknowledged that the ISI (in fact, it was General Pasha in person) had already brokered a preliminary meeting between a top American diplomat and a member of the Haqqani clan. Nothing much came of the meeting, news of which promptly leaked, but Clinton said America was willing to sit down with the Taliban. She said that what had once been preconditions for negotiations -- renouncing violence, shunning Al Qaeda and accepting Afghanistan's constitution, including freedoms for women -- were now ''goals.''
In diplomacy, no process is fully initiated until it has been named. A meeting of Pakistani political parties in Islamabad had adopted a rubric for peace talks with the Taliban, a slogan the Pakistanis repeated at every opportunity: ''Give peace a chance.'' If having this project boiled down to a John Lennon lyric diminished the gravitas of the occasion, Clinton didn't let on.
Within the American policy conglomerate, not everyone is terribly upbeat about the prospect of reconciling with the Taliban. The Taliban have so far publicly rejected talks, and the turban-bomb killing of Rabbani was a serious reversal. There is still some suspicion -- encouraged by Afghanistan and India -- about Pakistan's real agenda. One theory is that Pakistan secretly wants the Taliban restored to power in Afghanistan, believing the Pashtun Islamists would be more susceptible to Pakistani influence. A more cynical theory, which I heard quite a bit in New Delhi, is that the Pakistani Army actually wants chaos on its various borders to justify its large payroll. Most Americans I met who are immersed in this problem put little stock in either of those notions. The Pakistanis may not be the most trustworthy partners in Asia, but they aren't idiots. They know, at least at the senior levels, that a resurgent Taliban means not just perpetual mayhem on the border but also an emboldening of indigenous jihadists whose aim is nothing less than a takeover of nuclear Pakistan. But agreeing on the principle of a ''stable Afghanistan'' is easier than defining it, or getting there.
After Clinton left Islamabad, a senior Pakistani intelligence official I wanted to meet arrived for breakfast with me and a colleague at Islamabad's finest hotel. With a genial air of command, he ordered eggs Benedict for the table, declined my request to turn on a tape recorder, (''Just keep my name out of it,'' he instructed later) and settled into an hour of polished spin.
''The Taliban learned its lesson in the madrassas and applied them ruthlessly,'' he said, as the Hollandaise congealed. ''Now the older ones have seen 10 years of war, and reconciliation is possible. Their outlook has been tempered by reason and contact with the modern world. They have relatives and friends in Kabul. They have money from the opium trade. They watch satellite TV. They are on the Internet.''
On the other hand, he continued, ''if you kill off the midtier Taliban, the ones who are going to replace them -- and there are many waiting in line, sadly -- are younger, more aggressive and eager to prove themselves.''
So what would it take to bring the Taliban into a settlement? First, he said, stop killing them. Second, an end to foreign military presence, the one thing that always mobilizes the occupied in that part of the world. Third, an Afghan constitution framed to give more local autonomy, so that Pashtun regions could be run by Pashtuns.
On the face of it, as my breakfast companion surely knows, those sound like three nonstarters, and taken together they sound rather like surrender. Even Clinton is not calling for a break in hostilities, which the Americans see as the way to drive the Taliban to the bargaining table. As for foreign presence, both the Americans and the Afghans expect some long-term residual force to stay in Afghanistan, to backstop the Afghan Army and carry out drone attacks against Al Qaeda. And while it is not hard to imagine a decentralized Afghanistan -- in which Islamic traditionalists hold sway in the rural areas but cede the urban areas, where modern notions like educating girls have already made considerable headway -- that would be hard for Americans to swallow.
Clinton herself sounded pretty categorical on that last point when she told Pakistani interviewers: ''I cannot in good faith participate in any process that I think would lead the women of Afghanistan back to the dark ages. I will not participate in that.''
To questions of how these seemingly insurmountable differences might be surmounted, Marc Grossman, who replaced Holbrooke as Clinton's special representative, replies simply: ''I don't know whether these people are reconcilable or not. But the job we've been given is to find out.''
If you look at reconciliation as a route to peace, it requires a huge leap of faith. Surely the Taliban have marked our withdrawal date on their calendars. The idea that they are so deeply weary of war -- let alone watching YouTube and yearning to join the world they see on their laptops -- feels like wishful thinking.
But if you look at reconciliation as a step in couples therapy -- a shared project in managing a highly problematic, ultimately critical relationship -- it makes more sense. It gives Pakistan something it craves: a seat at the table where the future of Afghanistan is plotted. It gets Pakistan and Afghanistan talking to each other. It offers a supporting role to other players in the region -- notably Turkey, which has taken on a more active part as an Islamic peace broker. It could drain some of the acrimony and paranoia from the U.S.-Pakistan rhetoric.
It might not save Afghanistan, but it could be a helpful start to saving Pakistan.
What Clinton and company are seeking is a course of patient commitment that America, frankly, is not usually so good at. The relationship has given off some glimmers of hope -- with U.S. encouragement, Pakistan and India have agreed to normalize trade relations; the ISI has given American interrogators access to Osama bin Laden's wives -- but the funerals of those Pakistani troops last month remind us that the country is still a graveyard of optimism.
At least the U.S. seems, for now, to be paying attention to the right problem.
''If you stand back,'' said one American who is in the thick of the American strategy-making, ''and say, by the year 2020, you've got two countries -- 30 million people in this country, 200 million people with nuclear weapons in this country, American troops in neither. Which matters? It's not Afghanistan.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: Nov. 26, 2011: NATO aircraft inadvertently killed 24 Pakistani soldiers. (MM45)
JAN. 27, 2011: Raymond Davis, a C.I.A. contractor, shot and killed two motorcyclists in Lahore, Pakistan (MM47)
PUB-DATE: May 2, 2011:
Sept. 22, 2011: Adm. Mike Mullen suggested that Pakistan had supported terrorist attacks in Afghanistan. (MM49) (DRAWINGS BY MORGAN SCHWEITZER)
 MAP: SURROUNDED BY DANGER: There are now roughly 150,000 Pakistani troops on the Afghan border, up 40 percent from last year. (MM46) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (86%); TALIBAN (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); WRITERS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (67%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



762 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: As Wars End, Young Return To Scant Jobs

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- In Afghanistan, Cpl. Clayton Rhoden earned about $2,500 a month jumping into helicopters to chase down improvised explosive devices or check out suspected bomb factories.
Now he lives with his parents, sells his blood plasma for $80 a week and works what extra duty he can get for his Marine Corps Reserve unit.
Corporal Rhoden, who is 25, gawky and polite with a passion for soldiering, is one of the legions of veterans who served in combat yet have a harder time finding work than other people their age, a situation that officials say will grow worse as the United States completes its pullout of Iraq and as, by a White House estimate, a million new veterans join the work force over the next five years.
Veterans' joblessness is concentrated among the young and those still serving in the National Guard or Reserve. The unemployment rate for veterans aged 20 to 24 has averaged 30 percent this year, more than double that of others the same age, though the rate for older veterans closely matches that of civilians. Reservists like Corporal Rhoden have a bleak outlook as well. 
In July 2010, their unemployment rate was 21 percent, compared with 12 percent for other vets.
''There's been an upsurge in young people going into the military and not staying for a full 20-year career,'' said Jane Oates, the assistant secretary for employment and training at the Labor Department, which has worked to improve the three-day transition assistance program for outgoing soldiers and enlisted companies like Facebook to reach them. ''I think transitions have been difficult, with too few jobs out there and lack of clarity about what the employer wants.''
The employment gap cannot be explained by a simple factor like lack of a college degree -- despite their discipline and training, young veterans fare worse in the job market than their peers without degrees.
Employers and veterans seem to view each other as alien species. Managers, few of whom have military experience themselves, may fear the aftereffects of combat or losing reservists to another deployment. They may have difficulty understanding how military accomplishments translate to the civilian world.
Young veterans, whose work history may consist entirely of military service, often need to learn basics like what to wear to a job interview. More important, many say, they are overwhelmed by the transition from combat to civilian life.
''It's shell shock for a lot of them, going from such a structured lifestyle to a lifestyle that's got so many variables,'' said Daniel Hutchison, 29, who uses his own combat disability check to finance a shoestring transition assistance group, Ohio Combat Veterans. ''They're dealing with all the emotional things they went through, and they feel like they're alone.''
The Obama administration has championed veterans' maturity, management skills and even their promptness. Employers have jumped on the bandwagon, and large companies like JPMorgan Chase and Verizon have signed a pledge to hire a total of 100,000 veterans by 2020. More than 220,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan are out of work.
Over a decade of war, the requirement that companies restore reservists to their old jobs has placed a heavy burden on businesses, said Ted Daywalt, who runs VetJobs.com in Georgia. ''Nearly 65 to 70 percent of employers will not now hire National Guard and Reserve,'' he said. ''They can't run their business with someone being taken away for 12 months.''
Though employers typically ask about military service and status on job applications, it is illegal to discriminate based on that information.
Corporal Rhoden said his reserve duties had interfered with one job to the point that he quit. ''I've tried restaurants, shipping facilities, construction, snow removal businesses, landscaping -- pretty much anything that you don't need a college degree to do,'' he said.
Veterans have been coached to write resumes that emphasize leadership skills instead of ''the killing or capture of 350 Al-Qaeda associates,'' raising some skepticism.
''I'm not necessarily convinced that they have great marketable skills,'' said Rachel Feldstein, the associate director of New Directions, which offers drug rehabilitation, job training and other services to veterans in San Diego. ''If you train someone to be a sniper, those are not necessarily skills that are transferable.''
Young veterans face stiff competition for the jobs that fit them best, like policing. In Columbus, Dustin Szarell, 30, said he was passed over for work in the Akron Fire Department and as a juvenile corrections officer in favor of candidates who had experience in those fields.
The Obama administration has stepped up hiring of veterans, adding more than 85,000 to the government payroll since the 2008 fiscal year. On Saturday, President Obama praised returning veterans and said ''it is time to enlist our veterans and all our people in the work of rebuilding America.'' The administration is trying to shape a ''career-ready military'' whose medics and electricians can more easily attain the licenses they need to work as civilians. As of October, the G.I. Bill that pays for college can also be used for vocational training or apprenticeships.
But many young vets are still working through the aftermath of combat.
In interviews, some veterans said employers overestimated these problems. ''They have this misconception that we're all struggling from P.T.S.D. in its most severe form, we're all going to rage out,'' said Sgt. Kobby Nyen, 25, a Marine reservist and student. ''Even a Marine with P.T.S.D. has discipline.''
But others acknowledged that coping was an issue. ''I don't know who in their right mind would want to hire me when I got back from Afghanistan, because I was a disaster,'' said Jeff Mancino, 24, who is now studying to become a psychologist. ''I was 22 and I had to go to rehab -- what kind of 22-year-old does that?''
Often, the veterans Mr. Hutchison of Ohio Combat Veterans sees need much more than a job. Recently, he traveled 50 miles to Logan, Ohio, to meet Ethan Tomblin-Brooks, 24, who lives in a shell of a camper in his parents' driveway and gets construction work about once a week.
Mr. Tomblin-Brooks, who was injured in Iraq, said he had registered with the Veterans Affairs department but had not heard back. Army psychologists first diagnosed P.T.S.D., then bipolar disorder, but Mr. Tomblin-Brooks said he had no money for treatment, and no transportation.
Mr. Hutchison said he would help him get medical benefits, then tried to gently explain how little work is available in construction. Mr. Tomblin-Brooks, who has a G.E.D., was at a loss to suggest another prospect.
If he could, he said, he would rejoin the Army. ''I kind of like being told what to do,'' he said. ''It makes it a little easier than figuring it out on your own.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clayton Rhoden sells his blood plasma for $80 a week and works what extra duty he can get for his Marine Corps Reserve unit.
 Ethan Tomblin-Brooks, who was injured in Iraq, finds sporadic construction work and says he would rather rejoin the Army. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) CHARTS: After Combat, High Unemployment: The unemployment rate for young veterans, ages 20 to 24, is more than double that of other young people and has risen sharply this year, even as the rate for non-veterans has fallen. At nearly 30 percent, their unemployment rate is approaching four times the rate for older veterans. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); HELICOPTERS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



763 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Helping Homeowners Dig Out

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
WITH interest rates at historic lows, the expansion of a federal refinancing program could help more homeowners who owe more than their property is worth move out of higher-rate or adjustable loans into something more affordable and stable.
The biggest change to the plan, called the Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP, raises the debt limit at which such borrowers can obtain a new mortgage. Those who owe more than 125 percent of their home's value are now eligible; the previous limit for many government programs was 97 percent to 125 percent. The percentage ratio is known as loan-to-value, or LTV. The government also reduced some fees. 
While homeowners moving into fixed-rate mortgages will have no ceiling on their loan-to-value ratio, those who are sticking with an adjustable-rate mortgage will have a limit of 105 percent, said Jack Guttentag, a retired finance professor who now writes and runs a Web site called the Mortgage Professor. (ARMs are allowed if the initial rate is fixed for at least five years.)
The expansion could more than double the number of people who have refinanced under the Home Affordable Refinance Program, which in the first two years has helped 900,000 borrowers, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency. This could mean one million refinancings in 2012, and a similar number in 2013.
The expanded program, dubbed HARP 2, could be ''a potential lifeline for people who are underwater,'' said Michael Bizenov, an executive vice president of Sterling National Bank, which has branches throughout New York and Long Island. But Mr. Bizenov and others say the program is getting a slow rollout.
You must meet three basic criteria to qualify for a HARP 2 refinancing:
Your mortgage must be owned by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, and must have originated on or before May 31, 2009. (Each has a Web site page that will check your address for eligibility.)
You must have been current on your mortgage for at least six straight months and have had at most one late payment in the last 12 months. If you are uncertain, check with your servicer or look on your statements for any late charges.
Your loan-to-value ratio must be above 80 percent, and you cannot have previously refinanced under HARP.
The next step is to visit your current lender's Web site or office to start the discussion. ''They're the first ones who could help you if you're eligible,'' said Erin Lantz, the director of the Zillow Mortgage Marketplace, which has a tool that lets owners see if they qualify.
Some lenders started offering HARP 2 loans this month, while others will not begin until January. John Forlines, the vice president and chief credit officer for single-family product at Fannie Mae, said it would be fully rolled out by most lenders by mid-March.
Bank of America, one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders, has already instituted the lower pricing and fees on HARP 2 mortgages and will begin making the higher loan-to-value refinancing in January, said Terry Francisco, a senior vice president. Wells Fargo, another big lender, said it would be ''some time'' before it started the expanded program.Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will waive many closing fees for owners refinancing into a 15- or 20-year HARP mortgage. This could save borrowers charges ranging from a quarter of a percentage point to two percentage points of the loan amount, though banks are free to set their own fees.But going to a 15- or 20-year mortgage from, say, a 30-year mortgage or an interest-only one in an effort to build equity faster could set off a closer review of your finances if your monthly payment increased by 20 percent or more, Mr. Forlines said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WEB SITES (88%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); STERLING NATIONAL BANK (54%); ZILLOW INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



764 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: Brainy Beauty

BYLINE: By JOHN ADAMS. 
John Adams's ''Absolute Jest'' will receive its Carnegie Hall premiere in March, with Michael Tilson Thomas conducting the San Francisco Symphony.

 BODY:
HEDY'S FOLLY
The Life and Breakthrough Inventions of Hedy Lamarr, the Most Beautiful Woman in the World
By Richard Rhodes
Illustrated. 261 pp. Doubleday. $26.95.
On a sweltering Paris evening in June 1926, a 25-year-old pianist and composer from Trenton stepped out onto the stage of the Theatre des Champs-Elysees, which was crowded with an array of pianos, bass drums, xylophones, electric bells and electric fans (later to be substituted by enormous airplane propellers), as well as a hand-cranked siren. He nodded to the conductor, and the stuffy air in the hall suddenly began pulsing and throbbing, banging and wailing with a loud and persistent mechanical cacophony. Within a few minutes, according to one eyewitness, the concert had degenerated into a shouting match: ''Above the mighty noise of the pianos and drums arose catcalls and booing, shrieking and whistling, shouts of 'thief' mixed with 'bravo.' '' The audience, which included Eliot, Pound, Joyce and Diaghilev, was in an uproar. 
The young composer from Trenton was George Antheil. At 5-foot-4, with a round, cherubic face and straight blond hair perfectly parted like a choirboy's, he resembled anything but the piece of aggressive musical brutalism that was inciting the crowd. It was originally called ''Message to Mars,'' and was intended to be music for a Dadaist film. The title had been changed to ''Ballet Mecanique,'' perhaps better to amplify the work's emphatic embrace of Machine Age aesthetics, a kind of futuristic robo-art that Fritz Lang would evoke the following year in his film ''Metropolis.''
Antheil had arrived in Paris in 1923 via Berlin and had soon endeared himself to its Left Bank intelligentsia, moving with his future wife, a Hungarian woman named Boski, into a tiny apartment on the second floor of Sylvia Beach's Shakespeare & Company bookstore and remaining there for 10 years. He shared with his hero Stravinsky a desire to distance himself from the previous generation's plush Romanticism by posing in its place a musical ideal of severe objectivity and mechanistic /precision.
''Ballet Mecanique'' made Antheil a celebrity. He followed it with other /attention-getting projects, including a ''Jazz Symphony'' and an opera, ''Transatlantic,'' which when it had its premiere in Frankfurt in 1930 featured an American presidential candidate caught in a love nest and a soprano singing an aria while taking a bath. For an American composer he was receiving a lot of attention, but he was nonetheless desperately, chronically broke. With Europe on economic spin cycle and fascism on the rise, Antheil returned home to America, living briefly in New York, where he wrote ''squibs'' for Esquire magazine, including advice for young lovers. He also published a book, ''Every Man His Own Detective: A Study of Glandular Criminology.'' In 1936, with a $4,000 advance from Esquire, the couple drove across the country to Hollywood, where Antheil offered himself to the movie studios. The former avant-garde musical anarchist was ready to go to work for the Beast itself, and soon he was busily if not lucratively scoring films for Cecil B. DeMille.
At the same time Antheil was plugging away in Hollywood studios, the movie mogul Louis B. Mayer, on a visit to London, was introduced to a startlingly beautiful Vienna-born actress who, although still in her early 20s, had accomplished her own scandal by appearing nude and simulating passionate adulterous sex in a mostly silent movie called ''Ecstasy.'' The daughter of an affluent Jewish banker, Hedwig Kiesler had studied ballet and classical piano, attended an exclusive girls' school in Switzerland and had already endured several years as the trophy wife of Fritz Mandl, an immensely wealthy Austrian munitions manufacturer. Her acting credits were slight -- her jealous husband, after the wedding, had forbidden her from further movie work and had even attempted to buy up every existing copy of ''Ecstasy'' -- but the great stage director Max Reinhardt thought enough of her to cast her in several productions and had given her the sobriquet that would define her for the rest of her life, ''the most beautiful woman in the world.''
Hedwig Kiesler, at the time she met Mayer, had just run away from her suffocating life as Mandl's bride, fleeing with only her luggage and jewelry in search of a chance to go back to acting. But she scrounged enough to book passage on the Normandie, the exclusive luxury liner on which Mayer and his party were returning to America. Like many Hollywood stories, this one is encrusted with the usual legendary bons mots and self-serving anecdotes, but Mayer, who had seen ''Ecstasy,'' would be quoted as saying, ''You're lovely, but . . . I don't like what people would think about a girl who flits bare-assed around the screen.''
Mayer did nonetheless make her an offer but with the proviso that she change her name, and so by the time the Normandie docked in New York Hedwig Kiesler stepped off the gangplank as Hedy Lamarr, renamed by Mayer himself after the late silent film actress Barbara La Marr. Ahead lay years of astonishing commercial success as one of the most marketable of Hollywood's stars. She commanded the screen not so much for her acting, which at best was passably droll and arch, but rather for the perfect beauty of her face, with its colliding sensuality and innocence, and for the subtle irony and sly intelligence that animated her work with screen partners like Clark Gable, Jimmy Stewart and Charles Boyer.
Under contract to MGM, she worked hard, was generally liked, and although not a diva was scrupulous about fighting for her rights in an era when actors and actresses were ''properties'' rather than people. She avoided the celebrity party circuit, preferring small gatherings with close friends. At home she set up a drafting table and devoted her downtime to inventions, including a bouillon-like cube that when mixed with water would produce an instant soft drink. It was at a dinner at the home of the actress Janet Gaynor in 1940 that she met George /Antheil.
According to Antheil's autobiography, ''Bad Boy of Music,'' Hedy requested the meeting because she had read one of his Esquire articles about glands. This was Hollywood, and the most beautiful woman in the world was concerned about her breast size. Could Mr. Antheil help? A friendship began that evening, kindled by the encounter of two imaginative and inventive minds, and it is the subject of Richard Rhodes's new book, ''Hedy's Folly.'' Rhodes, who is possessed of his own imaginatively inventive mind, is best known as the author of ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb,'' one of the great works of scientific history. He has written elsewhere on the cold war, farming, the dangers of prions, the Donner Party and the life of John James Audubon. Rhodes's talent is making the scientifically complex accessible to the proverbial lay reader with clarity and without dumbing down the essentials of his topics. He can make you understand how nuclear fission occurs or how an atomic bomb differs from the hydrogen ''super,'' and along the way he expertly weaves social and cultural commentary into his narrative.
What drew Rhodes to the twin story of the Bad Boy of Music and ''the most beautiful woman in the world'' was their invention of a radio-controlled ''spread spectrum'' torpedo-guidance system, for which they received a patent in 1942.
That a glamorous movie star whose day job involved hours of makeup calls and dress fittings would spend her off hours designing sophisticated weapons systems is one of the great curiosities of Hollywood history. Lamarr, however, not only possessed a head for abstract spatial relationships, but she also had been in her former life a fly on the wall during meetings and technical discussions between her /munitions-manufacturer husband and his clients, some of them Nazi officials. Disturbed by news reports of innocents killed at sea by U-boats, she was determined to help defeat the German attacks. And Ant/heil, arguably the most mechanically inclined of all composers, having long before mastered the byzantine mechanisms of pneumatic piano rolls, retained a special genius for ''out of the box'' problem /solving.
Over several years the composer and the movie star spent countless hours together drafting and redrafting designs, not only for the torpedo system but also for a ''proximity fuse'' antiaircraft shell. In reality, their patent was an early version of today's smart bombs. The device as they made it employed a constantly roving radio signal to guide the torpedo toward its target. Because the signal kept ''hopping'' from one frequency to another, it would be impossible for the enemy to lock onto. To solve the problems of synchronizing receiver and transmitter, Ant/heil proposed a tiny structure inspired by the workings of a piano roll. This was a feat that years later would be used in everything from cellphone and Bluetooth technology to GPS instruments.
On Aug. 11, 1942, United States Patent No. 2,292,387 was granted to them for their design. But persuading the Navy to take it seriously proved insurmountable. Pentagon bureaucracy, coupled with the fact that the design's co-inventor was a movie star, resulted in their idea being ignored. Hedy's folly may have been in assuming men in government might overcome their prejudice that a beautiful woman could not have brains and imagination. But she lived to see similar versions of her invention be put into common practice, and in 1997, Hedy Lamarr, at the age of 82, and George Antheil (posthumously) were honored with the Pioneer Award by the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
Behind the uniqueness of this story lie deeper themes that Rhodes touches upon: the gender biases against beautiful and intelligent women, the delicate interpersonal politics of scientific collaboration and, perhaps most important of all, the never-ending, implacable conflict between art and Mammon in American culture.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF GEORGE ANTHEIL COURTESY OF HIS ESTATE) (BR10) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DAVID PLUNKERT) (BR1
 BR11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); DANCE (89%); OPERA (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); MUSIC (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (76%); THEATER (57%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

COMPANY: SHAKESPEARE & CO (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (64%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (77%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); GERMANY (79%); HUNGARY (67%)

TITLE: Hedy's Folly (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



765 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Crossing the Hall To a New Job

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
It was like a trade in which the player leaves one clubhouse, crosses a stadium hallway, enters the other team's clubhouse and starts a new life. That is what happened to Jeff Luhnow on the last night of the winter meetings this month at the Hilton Anatole in Dallas.
Luhnow checked in as the St. Louis Cardinals' vice president for scouting and player development. He checked out as the Houston Astros' general manager. When the Astros offered the job on the night of Dec. 7, Luhnow left the Cardinals' sixth-floor suite. In a few short steps, he went from the World Series champions to the worst team in baseball, and he was thrilled. 
''I just sort of walked across the hallway,'' Luhnow said over the phone last week, ''and we were up till 3 a.m. with the Astros team there, getting to know each other.''
Luhnow's departure was only the first for the Cardinals that night. At the same time, the Los Angeles Angels were completing a $254 million deal to lure Albert Pujols away from St. Louis.
For the Cardinals, at least, Pujols will be out of sight for the next decade in the American League West. But the Astros will join that division in 2013, giving Luhnow a year to find a designated hitter and his pitchers a year off before re-engaging the game's best slugger.
''It's nice to not face him for a year,'' Luhnow said, ''but I'm sure by the time we get over there, he's still going to like hitting at Minute Maid Park.''
The Astros' home is the sight of one of Pujols's most celebrated home runs: the missile off Brad Lidge in Game 5 of the 2005 National League Championship Series, when the Cardinals were one out from elimination. The Astros won the pennant the next game but lost the World Series to the Chicago White Sox and have not returned to the postseason.
Years of farm-system decay showed up in the majors last season, with a club-record 106 losses. Houston's drafts from 2005 through 2007 have produced just four major leaguers, the fewest of any team. In those same years, St. Louis drafted 24 future major leaguers, the most of any team.
Those were Luhnow's first three drafts as St. Louis's scouting director. The stretch produced several players from the Cardinals' championship roster, including Allen Craig, Daniel Descalso, Jaime Garcia and Jon Jay. The prospects traded for Matt Holliday, Rafael Furcal, Octavio Dotel, Edwin Jackson and Marc Rzepczynski also came from those drafts, along with Luke Gregerson and Chris Perez, now established relievers for other teams.
''Jeff had a lot of success in the draft,'' Cardinals General Manager John Mozeliak said in an e-mail. ''He helped develop our current methodology and he understood the importance of a strong pipeline.''
Luhnow's scouting background made him an obvious fit for the Astros, whose new owner, Jim Crane, fired the president, Tal Smith, and General Manager Ed Wade in late November. For Luhnow, respect for his scouting acumen was hard-earned.
Luhnow was born and raised in Mexico, where his parents, who are United States citizens, run a publishing business. He attended an American school and has dual nationality, but fell in love with baseball when Fernando Valenzuela, a Mexican hero, came to prominence with the Los Angeles Dodgers in the early 1980s.
Luhnow eventually earned degrees in economics and engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.B.A. from Northwestern. He worked for Gore-Tex in mechanical and chemical engineering, spent five years in management consulting, and did entrepreneurial work, including a job as general manager and vice president for marketing, for PetStore.com.
The Cardinals hired him in 2003 -- the year ''Moneyball'' was published -- to coordinate and make sense of the new analytics in baseball, and to study their international scouting operations. All of his previous jobs had practical applications in baseball, Luhnow said, but he was decidedly an outsider.
''People in baseball do not necessarily give you a lot of credit for the stuff you bring from prior careers, and they shouldn't,'' Luhnow said. ''They have no reason to. People value time and experience within the industry, and having earned your stripes. There are a lot of nuances that are specific to how baseball operates, and you don't appreciate them until you go through it.''
Luhnow was a quick learner, persuading ownership to reinvest in Latin America and giving scouts new areas of emphasis. His swift ascent in the team's hierarchy caused tension with Walt Jocketty, the general manager at the time, who had built the Cardinals' 2006 title team but was fired a year later.
Mozeliak, who succeeded Jocketty, said Luhnow's consulting background helped assess the team's strengths and weaknesses. He said the Cardinals would continue to use many of the strategies Luhnow introduced.
The Astros need plenty of his magic. Wade helped restock the farm system by trading outfielders Hunter Pence and Michael Bourn in July, but the payroll is larded by $45 million owed to four players next season: outfielder Carlos Lee, and pitchers Brett Myers, Wandy Rodriguez and Brandon Lyon.
Luhnow started his work last week by trading a young reliever, Mark Melancon, to Boston for shortstop Jed Lowrie and pitcher Kyle Weiland. It is the first step, he hopes, in bringing back the playoff excitement he saw in Houston while working for the Cardinals.
''We need to get back to that, and we will,'' Luhnow said. ''I don't know how long it's going to take, but I'm going to do everything I can to make that time as short as possible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS (93%); HOUSTON ASTROS (93%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



766 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: In the Forecasting Fog, It's Wise to Slow Down

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE American economy certainly isn't at peak strength. With unemployment at a painfully high 8.6 percent, it can't be. But unless the economy receives another shocking blow, it isn't in imminent danger of relapsing into recession.
That was essentially the outlook presented by Federal Reserve policy makers last week when they ratcheted up their assessment of the nation's economic condition. They concluded that the economy is on a path of moderate recovery, so the Fed needn't take further action right now.
That relatively sanguine appraisal also appears to be the consensus of most private economists and Wall Street strategists. ''The best case appears to be a 'muddle through' outcome in which the U.S. maintains its current growth rate,'' as Barclays Capital put it recently in its annual report on the global outlook.
Such views represent economists' best efforts to predict the future. But how much credence should they be given? After all, a vast majority of economists, including those at the Fed and in the White House, didn't foresee some of the most crucial developments of recent years, like the severity of the subprime mortgage crisis and the housing market's decline, the onset of the financial crisis and the Great Recession, and the weakness of the subsequent recovery. 
In this season of forecasts and predictions, it's certainly worth remembering that navigating the economy of late has been like driving in a dense fog. In such conditions, when you don't really know what lies ahead, it's wise to proceed with utmost caution.
Let's look at a few reasons to be skeptical about the ''consensus'' forecast:
First, not everyone subscribes to it. As I wrote in a recent column, the Economic Cycle Research Institute, an organization with an excellent track record, says the United States is actually heading into another recession, if it isn't in one already. The institute was founded by Geoffrey H. Moore, an economist who helped originate the practice of using leading indicators to predict business cycles. It bases its conclusion on a series of proprietary indexes.
In an interview in the institute's office in Midtown Manhattan, Lakshman Achuthan, its chief operations officer, acknowledged that recent data, like the drop in the unemployment rate from 9.0 percent to 8.6 percent, have been positive. But this doesn't alter his view. He said the institute's leading indicators -- which incorporate data on purchases, inventories, credit, business and consumer confidence, housing, real estate, global trade and profitability -- unfortunately continue to signal recession.
''It's normal to see data that seems reasonably strong even when a recession is just getting under way,'' he said.
Next, examine the Fed's own projections. In a statement at the end of the Federal Open Markets Committee meeting last week, it said the housing market -- usually an important component of a recovery -- remains moribund. Moreover, it said, economic growth will be too anemic to have a low unemployment rate anytime soon. In this vulnerable time, ''strains in global financial markets'' -- read, turbulence in the euro zone -- pose a serious threat, it added. A financial shock could darken the outlook immediately.
Then consider the private consensus. Economists polled in December in the Livingston Survey of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia downgraded projections made only six months earlier, by estimating that real G.D.P. in the second half of this year would rise at an annual rate of only 2.5 percent, not 3.2 percent. For the first half of 2012, they project an increase of only 2.1 percent, down from 3.0 percent. These forecasts could rise again, of course -- but could also easily fall again.
More troubling, the forecasts of both the Fed and private economists have been way off the mark in recent years. For example, in December 2007 -- when the Great Recession started, as we now know -- most economists inside and outside the Fed believed the economy was still growing. Livingston Survey economists at the time predicted growth in real G.D.P. of 1.9 percent in the first half of 2008, with a jump to 2.8 percent in the second half. Fed staff economists made a similar forecasting error, as Simon Potter, director of economic research at the New York Fed, documented in a recent blog post.
Perhaps even more disturbing is that on June 9, 2008 -- in the middle of what would be the longest and deepest recession since World War II, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said he thought conditions were improving. Remember that Mr. Bernanke is a distinguished economist with a vast array of information at his disposal. Yet he said in Boston, ''The risk that the economy has entered a substantial downturn appears to have diminished over the past month or so.'' In fact, the housing crisis was deepening, and the financial system and the economy would soon go into a tailspin.
Some of this is entirely understandable. After all, even predicting tomorrow's weather is risky. Will it rain? Will it sleet? Will it snow? Often, we don't know until the last second. Why should policy makers be expected to accurately predict the combined behavior of millions of people and enterprises in a complex and global economy, months in advance? Try they must, but perhaps it shouldn't be surprising if the effort often seems little more than highly educated guesswork.
WHAT may be less obvious is that it's not only predicting the future that's difficult; measuring economic activity that has already happened is a Sisyphean task. A seemingly simple benchmark like the quarterly G.D.P. growth rate is published and revised seven times by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. Those revisions are sometimes significant, particularly at turning points in economic growth.
''When you're building forecasts on a baseline that's shifting, it can be very, very difficult,'' said Steve Landefeld, the bureau's director, in a phone interview last week. Brent Moulton, an associate director, explained that G.D.P. is a statistical compilation of data from about 200 surveys from 38 federal agencies, plus myriad private reports. The numbers are changeable.
And following them too closely can be misleading. On Aug. 28, 2008, for example -- now known to have been the eighth month of the Great Recession -- the stock market rallied on an upward revision of the G.D.P. from April to June, perhaps feeding into a false sense of security. As it turned out, that number was later revised downward, as was the G.D.P. for the previous quarter.
Research by Jeremy J. Nalewaik, a Fed economist, suggests that another measure -- gross domestic income -- has provided a better indication of where the economy has been heading in recent periods. Right now, it may be signaling trouble ahead -- though the research so far is inconclusive.
It's possible the fog will lift and we'll find ourselves in a splendid period for the United States economy, which has lately seemed stronger and more resilient than those of many other parts of the world. But we don't really know.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY INSU LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); WEATHER (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); INTERVIEWS (65%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



767 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 39A

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: New Codes Aim to Cut Energy Use

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
The international symbol for Texas' energy-guzzling habit is a monster pickup truck -- pulling another pickup truck. But homes and other buildings are also big offenders, accounting for roughly 40 percent of the state's overall energy use. 
The opportunity for savings -- and to draw down some energy-related federal stimulus dollars -- has spurred action. In January, Texas will adopt a building code that should cut the energy consumption of new single-family homes by more than 15 percent, according to the Energy Systems Laboratory at the Texas A&M University System. The state tightened codes for commercial and industrial buildings and other residential buildings in April.
Big Texas cities tend to jump out ahead of the statewide building codes, which have often lagged nationally. This month, the Houston City Council passed a measure requiring new homes to be about 5 percent more efficient than the forthcoming statewide code, an effort to cut down on homes' energy use and burnish Houston's green credentials. Over the next few years, Houston will consider more requirements that could put the city some 15 percent above the state code in terms of energy savings.
Environmentalists welcome the stronger codes, but builders have concerns. Scott Norman, executive director of the Texas Association of Builders, said his group supports Houston's recent action. But he said further efficiency increases the need to balance energy savings with economic considerations.
Energy-saving requirements can add a few thousand dollars to the upfront cost of a new home, Mr. Norman said, and that can price people out of the market, especially in a down economy.
Luke Metzger, director of Environment Texas, said the code changes are crucial to saving energy in both new and existing structures. ''Homes we build today are going to last another 70 years,'' he said.
But crafting codes is easier than making them effective. A report this year by the nonprofit Building Codes Assistance Project with input from Texas' State Energy Conservation Office noted that ''many local governments will see the mandatory statewide code as an unfunded mandate set by the state.'' Enforcement capabilities are often lacking, the report said.
Even big cities struggle. In Austin, where codes have already gone beyond the forthcoming statewide requirements, the number of annual building inspections fell from 226,000 three years ago to about 165,000 today -- a casualty of budget tightening, according to Dan McNabb, the city's building inspections division manager. Austin's inspectors do not just address energy issues; they also spend time looking at safety matters like stairs and glass.
''Every project is different,'' Mr. McNabb said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY CONSUMPTION (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (57%); TEXAS ASSOCIATION OF BUILDERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



768 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Riding Off Into Civilization's Sunset

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
IT was the season of apocalypse. Whether your idea of the end is reconciliatory (a family reunion on a misty far shore in ''The Tree of Life'') or punishing -- the collision of Earth with another planet in ''Melancholia''; extinction in a metaphysical tornado in ''Take Shelter'' -- 2011 was the year of brooding cosmic consciousness in serious films. Even the mystical ''Tree of Life'' is shadowed with the notion of a fearsome, authoritarian God.
Movies, of course, have always flirted with disaster, but usually with a playful attitude. Remember the days of ''shake and bake''? (The nickname applied to ''Earthquake'' and ''The Towering Inferno,'' which appeared back to back in 1974.) Science fiction has had no dearth of end-of-the-world fantasies, but in Hollywood most have been packaged as roller-coaster thrills for audiences who feel safe; heroes gallop in to save the day. 
This year was different. The impulse of movies to think big and dark was probably spurred by the global financial crisis and the continuing recession, which have eroded a fundamental sense of material security and allowed a premonition of impending chaos to spread. That sense of insecurity coincides with movies like ''Margin Call,'' ''Moneyball'' and ''The Descendants,'' all of which address money with a hardheaded realism.
This eschatological mood seems the natural outgrowth of the ''we're all connected'' school of movies like ''Crash'' and ''Babel'' several years ago that anticipated the hyperconnectivity of the new social media. But it is one short step from ''we're all connected'' to Tom Lehrer's grimly jolly fantasy of nuclear annihilation, ''We Will All Go Together When We Go.'' Back in 1959, when the song was written, we assumed our little nest eggs were secure. You couldn't take it with you, but at least it was there.
These are my Top 10 movies of 2011:
1. 'THE DESCENDANTS' In Alexander Payne's second-best movie (after ''Election'') George Clooney gives his most complex and compelling screen performance (he even weeps) as Matt King, a wealthy Hawaiian landowner who learns of his wife's infidelity while she is on life support after a boating accident. With his two daughters in tow he travels from Oahu to Kauai to confront her lover, a married, high-flying real estate broker.
The movie, adapted from a novel by Kaui Hart Hemmings, is rich with Hawaiian lore as Matt argues with his relatives over whether or not to sell his family's valuable coastal property. A pitch-perfect study of middle-aged male angst and family conflict, with some sharp comic moments, ''The Descendants'' is one of the most adult American films ever made about love, money, betrayal and the ties that should bind but sometimes don't.
2. 'OF GODS AND MEN' The wrenching French film, directed by Xavier Beauvois, is based on a true story of the life-and-death choices facing a group of French Cistercian Trappist monks in Algeria in the 1990s after a massacre of foreign workers by Islamic militants. Should they leave their monastery or stay and face almost certain death, despite their good works and strong ties to the townspeople? This study of the courage and faith that sustains a band of brothers who have renounced all worldly aspirations culminates with an indelible scene of the monks sharing a last supper to the strains of Tchaikovsky's ''Swan Lake.'' It is spiritually transcendent.
3. 'THE TREE OF LIFE' The core of a film that asks big questions about God, creation and the afterlife is its eerily accurate evocation of 1950s boyhood in the American heartland. Brad Pitt (wonderful) is a loving but sternly moral patriarch who rules his Waco, Tex., family as if he were God's enforcer. The movie, unwittingly or not, is a troubling meditation on the weight of patriarchal tradition and its negative effect on children. Nobody could accuse its director, Terrence Malick, of having a sense of humor. But once you settle into its mood of uninterrupted solemnity, deepened by an eclectic classical score, it makes you ponder the ineffable.
4. 'MARGIN CALL' In J. C. Chandor's taut, concise corporate thriller, inspired by the fall of Lehman Brothers, a stock analyst discovers information that could destroy the company if it doesn't act immediately and dump billions of dollars in toxic assets. This devastating portrait of greed, panic and malfeasance in high places has the strongest performances in years by Jeremy Irons and Kevin Spacey. It offers a grim picture of the ruthless pecking order at an investment bank whose leaders don't understand the destructive financial instruments they wield with a callous disregard for everyone but themselves.
5. 'MELANCHOLIA' In the Danish trickster Lars von Trier's dual study of clinical depression and the end of the world as a hidden planet named Melancholia threatens to collide with Earth, Kirsten Dunst rises to the role of a deeply troubled young woman stoically facing the end. ''Melancholia'' is really two films very loosely connected by the title and its double meanings. The first part portrays her disastrous wedding reception; the cinematically ravishing second part puts it in despairing cosmic perspective. The majestic soundtrack for the apocalypse is the Prelude and Liebestod from ''Tristan und Isolde.''
6. 'WE WERE HERE' Although its story is unbearably sad, David Weissman's documentary history of the AIDS epidemic in San Francisco told through the experiences of several caregivers is an inspiring communal portrait of selfless human beings who chose to face the fire rather than run away and hide. Devoid of sentimentality and self-congratulation, it is a powerful reminder that unsung everyday heroes are everywhere.
7. 'INCENDIES' In Denis Villeneuve's harrowing drama adapted from a play by Wajdi Mouawad, a notary gives a twin brother and sister, whose mother (the remarkable Lubna Azabal) has died, two envelopes with instructions to deliver them to their father, whom they had presumed dead, and a brother they didn't know existed. Interweaving scenes of their mother's hidden story of survival in an unnamed war-torn country that resembles Lebanon, the movie has the inexorable momentum of a Greek tragedy and culminates with a shattering revelation.
8. 'A DANGEROUS METHOD' David Cronenberg's portrayal of the rivalrous friendship of Sigmund Freud (Viggo Mortensen) and Carl Jung (Michael Fassbender) is a thoughtful film of ideas clearly articulated, with a frisson of kinkiness involving their mutual patient Sabina Spielrein (Keira Knightley), with whom Jung (in the movie) had an affair. Even if Mr. Mortensen's Freud is nothing like the father of psychoanalysis -- who would know? -- it is dramatically persuasive.
9. 'CERTIFIED COPY' The Iranian filmmaker Abbas Kiarostami's first feature made outside Iran follows a middle-aged man and woman (William Shimell and Juliette Binoche) as they drive through Tuscany while discussing artistic authenticity and pondering the notion of the value of a copy versus an original. Then it applies the same concept to their relationship. Have they just met, or are they married and pretending to be strangers? The movie is a brainteaser worthy of Michelangelo Antonioni.
10. 'MONEYBALL' A sports movie for our time, this adaptation of Michael Lewis's nonfiction best seller about the Oakland A's general manager Billy Beane (Brad Pitt), who drafted major league baseball players using a computer, is mercifully free of macho sentimentality and home runs that solve everything. Although its insider's perspective is at times intimidating, it offers a starkly accurate portrait of baseball as a big business in the age of big money.
RUNNERS-UP
1. 'TAKE SHELTER'
2. 'YOUNG ADULT'
3. 'RAPT'
4. 'POETRY'
5. 'A SEPARATION'

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: French Cistercian Trappist monks in Algeria savor a last supper before facing their fate in Xavier Beauvois's ''Of Gods and Men.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)(AR8)
 Jeremy Irons portrays one of the finance executives in ''Margin Call.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALTER THOMSON/ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS)(AR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); FAMILY (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (57%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ALGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



769 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: The Internet Gets Physical

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR. 
A technology reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THE Internet likes you, really likes you. It offers you so much, just a mouse click or finger tap away. Go Christmas shopping, find restaurants, locate partying friends, tell the world what you're up to. Some of the finest minds in computer science, working at start-ups and big companies, are obsessed with tracking your online habits to offer targeted ads and coupons, just for you.
But now -- nothing personal, mind you -- the Internet is growing up and lifting its gaze to the wider world. To be sure, the economy of Internet self-gratification is thriving. Web start-ups for the consumer market still sprout at a torrid pace. And young corporate stars seeking to cash in for billions by selling shares to the public are consumer services -- the online game company Zynga last week, and the social network giant Facebook, whose stock offering is scheduled for next year.
As this is happening, though, the protean Internet technologies of computing and communications are rapidly spreading beyond the lucrative consumer bailiwick. Low-cost sensors, clever software and advancing computer firepower are opening the door to new uses in energy conservation, transportation, health care and food distribution. The consumer Internet can be seen as the warm-up act for these technologies. 
The concept has been around for years, sometimes called the Internet of Things or the Industrial Internet. Yet it takes time for the economics and engineering to catch up with the predictions. And that moment is upon us.
''We're going to put the digital 'smarts' into everything,'' said Edward D. Lazowska, a computer scientist at the University of Washington. These abundant smart devices, Dr. Lazowska added, will ''interact intelligently with people and with the physical world.''
The role of sensors -- once costly and clunky, now inexpensive and tiny -- was described this month in an essay in The New York Times by Larry Smarr, founding director of the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology; he said the ultimate goal was ''the sensor-aware planetary computer.''
That may sound like blue-sky futurism, but evidence shows that the vision is beginning to be realized on the ground, in recent investments, products and services, coming from large industrial and technology corporations and some ambitious start-ups.
One of the hot new ventures in Silicon Valley is Nest Labs, founded by Tony Fadell, a former Apple executive, which has hired more than 100 engineers from Apple, Google, Microsoft and other high-tech companies.
Its product, introduced in late October, is a digital thermostat, combining sensors, machine learning and Web technology. It senses not just air temperature, but the movements of people in a house, their comings and goings, and adjusts room temperatures accordingly to save energy.
At the Nest offices in Palo Alto, Calif., there is a lot of talk of helping the planet, as well as the thrill of creating cool technology. Yoky Matsuoka, a former Google computer scientist and winner of a MacArthur ''genius'' grant, said, ''This is the next wave for me.''
Matt Rogers, 28, a Nest co-founder, led a team of engineers at Apple that wrote software for iPods. He loved his job and working for Apple, he said. But he added: ''In essence, we were building toys. I wanted to build a product that could really make a huge impact on a big problem.''
Across many industries, products and practices are being transformed by communicating sensors and computing intelligence. The smart industrial gear includes jet engines, bridges and oil rigs that alert their human minders when they need repairs, before equipment failures occur. Computers track sensor data on operating performance of a jet engine, or slight structural changes in an oil rig, looking for telltale patterns that signal coming trouble.
SENSORS on fruit and vegetable cartons can track location and sniff the produce, warning in advance of spoilage, so shipments can be rerouted or rescheduled. Computers pull GPS data from railway locomotives, taking into account the weight and length of trains, the terrain and turns, to reduce unnecessary braking and curb fuel consumption by up to 10 percent.
Researchers at General Electric, the nation's largest industrial company, are working on such applications and others. One is a smart hospital room, equipped with three small cameras, mounted inconspicuously on the ceiling. With software for analysis, the room can monitor movements by doctors and nurses in and out of the room, alerting them if they have forgotten to wash their hands before and after touching patients -- lapses that contribute significantly to hospital-acquired infections. Computer vision software can analyze facial expressions for signs of severe pain, the onset of delirium or other hints of distress, and send an electronic alert to a nearby nurse.
Last month, G.E. announced that it was opening a new global software center in Northern California and would hire 400 engineers there to write code to accelerate the commercial development of intelligent machines. ''Our role is to build the software that enables us to do this industrial Internet,'' said William Ruh, who will head the new center.
In 2008, I.B.M. declared that it was going to make a big push into the industrial Internet, using computing intelligence to create more efficient systems for utility grids, traffic management, food distribution, water conservation and health care. Smarter Planet was the label the company tacked on to the initiative, and industry analysts wondered if it was more than a sales campaign.
In a recent interview, Samuel J. Palmisano, chief executive of I.B.M., emphasized that the program's origins were in the company's research labs rather than its marketing department. ''The timing was right because we had the technology,'' he said.
Today, I.B.M. says it is working on more than 2,000 projects worldwide that fit in the Smarter Planet category.
In Dubuque, Iowa, for example, I.B.M. has embarked on a long-term program with the local government to use sensors, software and Internet computing to improve the city's use of water, electricity and transportation. In a pilot project this year, digital water meters were installed in 151 homes, and software monitored water use and patterns, informing residents about ways to consume less and alerting them to likely leaks. The savings in the pilot, nearly 7 percent, would translate into curbing water use by 65 million gallons a year in Dubuque, a Midwestern city of 60,000.
In Rio de Janeiro, I.B.M. is employing ground and airborne sensors, along with artificial intelligence software, for neighborhood-level disaster preparedness. The system, which is being developed by I.B.M. researchers, aims to predict heavy rains and mudslides up to 48 hours in advance and conduct evacuations before they occur -- and avoid tragedies like the one last year, when a mudslide left more than 70 people dead and thousands homeless.
The next wave of computing does not step away from the consumer Internet so much as build on it for different uses (posing some of the same sorts of privacy and civil liberties concerns). Software techniques like pattern recognition and machine learning used in Internet searches, online advertising and smartphone apps are also ingredients in making smart devices to manage energy consumption, health care and traffic.
Take Google's robot car program, for example. The automated cars, each with a human along for the ride, have deftly navigated thousands of miles on California highways and city streets. The project -- a research effort so far -- uses a bundle of artificial intelligence technologies, as does Google's search-and-ad business.
GLOBAL PULSE is a new initiative by the United Nations to leverage data from the consumer Internet for global development. So-called sentiment analysis of messages in social networks and phone text messages -- using natural-language deciphering software -- can help predict job losses or lower spending in a region, or disease outbreaks.
In parts of Africa and Asia, where cellphones serve as automated bank tellers, with text messages initiating money transfers, they can also serve as an early warning system. When savings transfers drop to 50 cents or zero from $10 a month, ''something is happening that is evident in the digital smoke signals,'' said Robert Kirkpatrick, the director of Global Pulse. School feeding programs or government assistance might be stepped up to prevent a region from slipping back into poverty.
Global Pulse, begun in late 2009, is conducting research and trying to forge partnerships with private companies. To really succeed, the program needs the cooperation of Internet companies and cellphone carriers to give it access to social network and text-message communications, which would be stripped of any personally identifying information.
Mr. Kirkpatrick terms such contributions ''data philanthropy.'' His argument is that cooperating helps companies by nurturing economic health in the markets where they do business.
Global Pulse, Mr. Kirkpatrick said, is exploring new frontiers in knowledge with its real-time tracking of what is happening to people, not to sell them something but to target development efforts. ''This is computational behavioral economics,'' he said. ''We're part of a whole new science here.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY PAUL SAHRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (72%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); RETAIL COUPONS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



770 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Aspirations in Colorado To Be a New Motor City

BYLINE: By JIM WITKIN

 BODY:
Fort Collins, Colo.
IN the world of computers, Silicon Valley is recognized as the spawning ground of technology start-ups. For financial institutions, Lower Manhattan has long been the place to set up shop.
And of course Detroit has historically served as the epicenter of American automaking, evolving in recent times from a manufacturing center to a headquarters city. Still, there is no guaranty that its dominance is permanent.
Among the places vying to become a nexus of automotive development is this college town of 140,000 at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, some 1,300 miles from the Motor City. Already it has earned a reputation as one of the country's leading engine and transportation research centers, digging into the dirty business of civilizing some of the industry's biggest and least sophisticated engines.
The Engines and Energy Conversion Laboratory here, part of Colorado State University's school of mechanical engineering, was founded 20 years ago by Bryan Willson. The results of its work, especially in fuel injection and ignition systems, have been adopted by major industry suppliers like Delphi, Bosch and Eaton, component providers to auto, truck and industrial engine makers. 
Work at the laboratory also involves emerging technologies -- smart grids, electric vehicle components, alternative fuels and new twists on conventional drivetrains -- that will be vital for transportation systems of the future.
Bringing this work to market will require a new approach. ''With such a diversity of new technologies, you are starting to see expertise emerge and new businesses form in places like Silicon Valley, Austin and Colorado,'' Dr. Willson said. ''I expect much of this will not happen in Detroit.''
Many start-ups, hoping to commercialize these new technologies, have already formed or been drawn to the area as a result of programs sponsored by the city of Fort Collins in collaboration with local companies. The goal, according to Josh Birks, the city's economic adviser, is to build a critical mass of clean tech and transportation-related businesses.
This transformation started with a competition. In 1990, General Motors, with the Energy Department as a co-sponsor, challenged 25 engineering schools around the country in a program that converted GMC 2500 Sierra pickups to run on natural gas. Though the Colorado State University team did not win the competition, placing second, the technology it developed proved useful for a fleet of natural gas hybrid buses operating in Denver.
From that experience, Dr. Willson took away a guiding principle that would inform his future work. ''We didn't want to just conduct experiments or write papers and have them sit on a shelf,'' he said. ''We wanted to have impact, so what we do here is the messy work to make sure these innovations actually become products.''
The lab's messy work was evident on a tour through the facility. In one corner sat an enormous 140-liter natural gas-powered engine that once turned a compressor used on natural gas pipelines. Over the years, Dr. Willson and his students have pioneered several improvements to a computer-controlled fuel delivery system that greatly reduces the engine's nitrogen oxide emissions.
Today the technology can be found on almost every gas pipeline engine in the country, and it has helped establish a national reputation for the laboratory. Enginuity, a start-up working here, commercialized much of this technology and in 2008 was acquired by Dresser-Rand, which supplies equipment to the oil and gas industry.
Nearby, a team of graduate students huddled around a large engine connected to a bank of diagnostic machines by a tangle of wires. A test of a laser ignition system, in which light rather than electric current runs over fiber-optic cables to optical spark plugs, was under way.
''If you look at the future of automotive engines,'' Dr. Willson explained, ''you are going to see higher levels of exhaust gas recirculation and a much more difficult ignition problem, one that we are looking to lasers to solve.''
Exhaust gas recirculation directs some of the engine's exhaust back to the cylinders, where it combines with the air-fuel mix to help reduce nitrogen oxide emissions. Many automotive engines depend on this technology to meet emissions standards.
In the building's basement is a small-scale electricity grid where, among other projects, students study the impact that a growing population of electric vehicles may have on the power distribution network. Behind the building, a company co-founded by Dr. Willson, Solix Biofuels, is developing a low-cost system for producing fuels from algae. Solix intends to license the technology to large energy producers.
In the far corner of the building was a Cummins diesel engine owned by VanDyne SuperTurbo, a spinoff from Woodward Governor, a large Fort Collins-based energy management company. VanDyne pays to use the laboratory's resources, including several students, to conduct durability and emissions testing on its SuperTurbo technology, a device that adds a two-way mechanical drive to a turbocharger.
In this wrinkle on conventional turbocharger design, the engine can drive the turbo directly, and the turbo can push power back into the engine through a direct mechanical link, a system known as turbocompounding. Testing suggests that the technology could offer fuel efficiency gains and carbon-dioxide-emission reductions of 30 percent, enabling automakers to use smaller engines.
VanDyne is in its second round of venture financing and talking to several truck and auto diesel engine manufacturers, according to its chief executive, Ed VanDyne. It recently signed a deal with the Army, which will test the SuperTurbo on its tanks and heavy vehicles.
For its first three years, VanDyne occupied space at the Rocky Mountain Innosphere in Fort Collins, a nonprofit business incubation program started in 2007 and supported by the university, local businesses and the city. Since then, the program has created 27 companies that now employ 133 high-tech workers, according to Mike Freeman, who serves as chairman of the Innosphere board.
Mr. Birks, the Fort Collins economic adviser, said the Innosphere was emblematic of the city's commitment to what he called ''the front end of business formation.'' Through this program, VanDyne received low-cost office space and free access to patent lawyers and accountants, as well as help developing business plans and raising financing.
High-tech businesses in the area can also participate in one of the local innovation clusters where local start-ups and established companies in related industries work together, with help from the university and city on marketing and skill-building. Initiatives typically involve projects in the community that allow member companies to showcase their capabilities.
Once these start-ups can stand on their own through the efforts of Innosphere or one of the cluster programs, most are choosing to stay in the area, Mr. Birks said. ''What we are seeing is that corporate headquarters, research and development and the prototyping all stay fairly close to where the company was incubated and founded,'' he said.
Other companies are choosing to move to the area. One, Czero, is working with the engines laboratory to develop a hydraulic hybrid kit that recovers energy when a vehicle is braking and is particularly suited for vehicles that make frequent stops.
''We moved our company from Colorado Springs to Fort Collins because the university and the city have created an amazing atmosphere here, very pro- business and pro-innovation,'' said Guy Babbit, chief executive of Czero and director of the newly formed Colorado Engine and Transportation Innovation Cluster.
Because demands on the university's engine research are increasing, it is planning a large addition, expected to begin construction next year. Dr. Willson has been approved by the city's planning commission to rebuild the original smoke stacks on the historic Art Deco-style building. But he plans to replace them with wind turbines to generate electricity for the laboratory.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DOMAIN: Above, Dr. Willson in the Engines and Energy Conversion Laboratory with an 18-liter research engine. Left, Bethany Fisher, a graduate student studying the effects of advanced biodiesel fuel on a John Deere engine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY
 DAN BIHN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (83%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



771 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 39A

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: The Luxury Market Is Robust Despite Troubles in Lower Income Brackets

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Pierre Buljan guided his black Mercedes S.U.V. around the winding roads of the Hillsborough hills and into Atherton, where the mansions of Silicon Valley technology barons hide behind thick stone walls, wrought-iron gates and tall, manicured hedges.
''These people have essentially infinite money,'' said Mr. Buljan, who has been a Realtor on the Peninsula for more than 30 years. He pointed at a sloping four-acre property that included a large redwood grove with a private creek. 
''If someone falls in love with a property like this,'' he said, ''the price doesn't matter.''
Everywhere Mr. Buljan turned, a historic transition was under way. A generation ago, many of these properties were second homes for San Francisco's elite families. These days, most are being bought, for cash, by international tycoons or the youthful leaders of local technology companies.
While the wider Bay Area has suffered, along with the rest of the country, with falling property values and rising foreclosures, the luxury housing market has remained robust, analysts said. That is especially true in Silicon Valley, where an arms race for talent among emerging social networking companies has raised salaries for executives and engineers, and a resurgent market for initial public stock offerings is creating hundreds of new millionaires.
Some of the sales are eye-popping. In March, the Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, an investor in Facebook, Groupon and Zynga, bought a French-style chateau in Los Altos Hills for a reported $100 million. Some buyers have hidden their identities behind companies.
In September, an Atherton estate formerly owned by the great-grandniece of Levi Strauss sold for $53 million, while the home of Sue Burns, a major investor in the San Francisco Giants, was sold for $20 million by her estate.
''It's going to take a while for the wider economy to recover, but there are enough people to make a difference at the high end of the housing market,'' keeping demand high, said Steve Levy, director of the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy, a think tank in Palo Alto, where the median single-family home price last week was $1,838,750.
Across the Peninsula, a small-scale building boom is under way as developers and wealthy property owners buy million-dollar homes, tear them down and build larger ones. Stroll down Waverley Street in Old Palo Alto, home to many Google executives and the late Steve Jobs, and you'll see the ultramodern 6,000-square-foot house that Google's co-founder Larry Page is building, rising from its foundation. Mr. Page's mansion will also include a 3,500-square-foot basement that has been called a ''bat cave'' by neighbors. Analysts and builders said such high-end construction had been largely recession-proof.
''While the large number of foreclosures have created a significant inventory of homes at the middle and lower end and kept prices down, that hasn't happened at the top end,'' said Eduardo Martinez, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics.
The high unemployment rate in the Bay Area's construction sector has driven down wages and therefore the overall cost of building, said Leonard Mezhvinsky, a principal at Sieger Property Development. Meanwhile, the number of potential buyers for top-tier homes continues to grow.
''We are expecting Facebook and Zynga to go public,'' Mr. Mezhvinsky said recently, ''and that will create an instant number of multimillionaires.'' Indeed, Zynga went public on Friday with a $1 billion stock offering. Facebook is widely expected to file a $10 billion offering early next year.
In anticipation of the onslaught of new multimillionaires, Mr. Mezhvinsky bought a single-family home on Ralston Avenue in Hillsborough in 2009 and demolished it. ''When we're done, there will be a 10,000-square-foot main house, and a loge,'' he said. ''There will be a six-bedroom house, seven full bathrooms and two powder rooms. There is a swimming pool with a Jacuzzi. There is a sauna and steam room,'' and five fireplaces.
The new house will not be finished until July or August, Mr. Mezhvinsky said, but it is already on the market for $13 million, nearly four times what he paid for it. The buyer will probably pay extra to finish it to his or her taste, he said.
''What you're witnessing,'' said Mr. Buljan, the real estate agent, ''is the next generation of superwealth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Woodhaven Manor in Woodside, with wine cellar, gym, movie theater and more. Asking $47.5 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WORLD CLASS PROPERTIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); FAMILY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); FORECLOSURE (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); BASEBALL (66%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); GROUPON INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (54%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (57%); LARRY PAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



772 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Serving the Role of a Loving Mother to Her 'Little Monster'

BYLINE: By ANASTASIA ECONOMIDES

 BODY:
Mary Rodriguez, a diabetic widow, greeted a visitor recently without an umbrella in the rain outside the maze of brick buildings in the Brooklyn housing project where she lived. Her legs were swollen, and her flip-flops were drenched. She wobbled back in while mentioning she owned a walker.
Ms. Rodriguez led the way through Marlboro Houses into Building 26, down a dim hallway and into her home of 40 years. The living room lights were turned off; so was the small air-conditioner propped up at a barred window on a hot day. Pale yellow curtains, a tattered black couch and a television set decorated the room. Next to the TV was a pile of children's sneakers, and crayon markings adorned the walls -- telltale signs that Ms. Rodriguez shared the apartment with a tiny companion. 
After having 7 children and seeing 12 grandchildren come into the world, Ms. Rodriguez, 70, thought she was finished rearing children. But she is now the sole guardian of her great-grandson, Jayden, 3.
''I love my little monster,'' Ms. Rodriguez said. ''I don't want him to go into foster care.''
Jayden has always known her as ''Mommy.'' Ms. Rodriguez took in the boy and his mother -- Ms. Rodriguez's granddaughter -- after the city's Administration for Children's Services found the mother's home unfit.
In 2009, Jayden went to the hospital for a bad rash, and Children's Services again intervened, according to Brooklyn Community Services, a social services agency. Ms. Rodriguez offered to take responsibility for the boy. When Jayden's mother did not appear in court, Ms. Rodriguez was awarded full custody, according to court documents.
''She doesn't know who Jayden's father is,'' Ms. Rodriguez said of the boy's mother. Attempts to reach Jayden's mother were unsuccessful.
Ms. Rodriguez said she would gladly have her granddaughter back in their lives. ''I love her,'' she said. ''She did the wrong thing, but you forgive and forget.''
Raising the boy has not been easy. Jayden has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, for which he takes medication, and he recently aged out of the state's Early Intervention Program, which supports children with special needs. To help care for Jayden, Brooklyn Community Services provides the family with home attendants six days a week.
Ms. Rodriguez, who also lives with a mentally disabled adult son, has difficulty grasping what is said unless spoken to slowly. A retired coat factory worker, she has had Type I diabetes and high blood pressure for about a decade, and is in need of a new kidney.
Ms. Rodriguez receives $1,170 a month in Social Security benefits and $332 in food stamps. She usually has less than $200 left after paying $741 a month in rent and $400 in utility bills. She hesitates to turn on the air-conditioner because it would cost an extra $8 a month, she said.
When Jayden outgrew his crib last year, social workers at Brooklyn Community Services, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, drew $358 from the fund to buy a dresser and a twin-size bed for the toddler.
Still, he crawls out of his bed and hops in with Ms. Rodriguez to sleep, she said.
''He would stay up all night sometimes,'' she said, ''which means I would have to stay up all night.''
In the dimly lighted room, Jayden was a whirl of brown curls, grabbing at Ms. Rodriguez affectionately. Ms. Rodriguez, who had been searching for a school that suited his needs, recently enrolled him at NYL William O'Connor Midwood School in Brooklyn. What would happen to Jayden if Ms. Rodriguez were no longer around was unclear.
''I just hope for the best,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Rodriguez, 70, a diabetic widow, has full custody of her great-grandson, Jayden, 3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DIABETES (89%); CHILD WELFARE (88%); FOSTER CARE (74%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (71%); HYPERTENSION (60%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



773 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2012 BUICK VERANO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Testing the Waters With a Smaller Vessel

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
FOR a brand that ceased to be bold long ago, Buick is making a rather audacious request with its newest car, the 2012 Verano: would you please consider it the equal of small cars from prestigious brands like Audi and Volvo?
Buick has struggled for a couple of decades, helped not a bit by a mishmash of vehicles and marketing strategies that left many car buyers nonplussed. But there are signs that the General Motors division is on the upswing, and the Verano luxury compact is the latest indication that corporate confidence is back, along with a new willingness to take a gamble.
Buick's resurgence began with the 2008 Enclave, a seven- or eight-passenger crossover admired for its competence. Then came well-regarded new versions of the midsize LaCrosse and Regal sedans. Memories of less than stellar Buicks like the Skylark, the division's last compact car, have grown dim.
The Verano is aimed at cars like the Audi A3 and Volvo C30 that are exploring the question of whether Americans will pay premium prices for upscale compacts. For Audi and Volvo this remains a test without a final grade: combined sales of the A3 and C30 were only 10,500 last year. 
Buick, which is feeling pretty good about itself, wants to take the exam, too.
The Verano starts at $23,470, and a fully optioned model is about $29,000 with leather upholstery, heated steering wheel and front seats, sunroof, navigation system and fancy stereo.
A comparably equipped A3 or C30 would easily cost $3,000 or $4,000 more.
Buick could not afford to start its experiment with a clean-slate design, so the Verano was engineered from the existing Chevrolet Cruze.
''The basic structure underneath is similar to the Cruze,'' said Jim Federico, the G.M. vehicle line executive for global compact cars.
But the starting point and the ending point are far apart, Mr. Federico said, because the Verano had to appeal to more upscale customers.
There were extensive upgrades and substitutions. Whereas the Chevrolet is assembled in Lordstown, Ohio, the Verano comes from Orion Township, Mich. Production of both cars was halted last week because of a ''consumer satisfaction'' issue with a part, according to a Buick spokesman, Nick Richards. He said G.M. was working with the supplier to resolve the problem.
The Verano's interior includes soft-touch materials to foster an upscale look. Contrasting colors provide the best ambiance; darker monotones can be a bit dreary.
At a glance, the thick front seats seem plush and welcoming. But on a 400-mile trip along Interstate 80, my wife, Cheryl, and I found the seats uncomfortable after only an hour or two. Given our very different physiques, that suggests a design problem; Mr. Richards, the Buick spokesman, said Buick was still making some last-minute adjustments to the seats.
There's another downside to those fat front seats. They reduce the knee room for passengers in the back, which has only 33.9 inches of legroom. That makes the rear seats more than ceremonial, but less than accommodating for adults on anything but a brief trip.
''We definitely are selling it for the front-seat customer,'' Mr. Federico conceded.
In fairness, neither the four-door Audi nor the two-door Volvo has a roomy back seat, and each offers only about an inch more of rear legroom.
In recent years Buick has taken a vow of vehicular silence, having decided that peace and quiet will be a characteristic of its products. Mr. Federico said the engineers put a strong emphasis on eliminating or blocking noise, and indeed the Verano is capable of covering long distances at 75 to 85 m.p.h. in a calm and soothing fashion.
As for crash safety, the Verano was rated a Top Safety Pick last week by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. The rating is based on roof strength as well as front, side and rear-impact crash tests.
While the Cruze offers a choice of two 4-cylinder engines (each rated at 138 horsepower), Buick wanted an engine that was more powerful and more refined. The Verano gets a 2.4-liter 4-cylinder that uses direct injection of fuel and is rated at 180 horsepower. That engine is also used, with a small boost from an electric motor, in the Regal and the LaCrosse.
The 6-speed automatic comes from the same transmission family as the one in the Cruze, but has been adjusted to handle more torque.
Acceleration is acceptably brisk, and for the most part noise and harshness are kept in the engine bay where they belong. Only around 2,300 r.p.m. was there a vibration, a passing hint of 4-cylinder gruffness that reached the cabin.
Next year the Verano will get more power from a turbocharged 2-liter 4-cylinder with either a 6-speed manual or a 6-speed automatic. A spokesman declined to state the horsepower of that engine, but it is rated at 220 in the 2012 Buick Regal.
The Environmental Protection Agency's fuel economy estimate is 21 miles per gallon in the city and 32 m.p.g. on the highway. That is less than the 25/36 m.p.g. ratings of the Verano's bigger brother, the LaCrosse, with the electric assist.
The Verano's rating beats the Volvo C30 and the Audi A3 with a gasoline engine. A diesel version of the A3 does better at 30/42 m.p.g.
In one stretch of almost 370 miles -- with the trip computer showing an average speed just under 65 m.p.h. -- I recorded 32.2 m.p.g.
The suspension has also been upgraded from the Cruze, with different shock absorbers and bushings. It also has larger 18-inch wheels.
The Verano certainly doesn't behave like a sport sedan on a mountain road, but that is not its mandate. Rather, it is a comfortable small car that is responsive enough to be surprisingly rewarding to drive. Such a blend of comfort and performance was exactly what the engineers were aiming for, Mr. Federico said.
''We're not after Buicks to be the fastest in the segment or the best fuel economy in the segment,'' he added. ''We're after the Buick to be the best balance. The best balance of smoothness, decent fuel economy and good performance.''
Americans are becoming more comfortable with smaller cars, Mr. Federico says, but they do not want to give up features and comforts. In that light, the Verano makes sense. But Mr. Federico noted that the car is competing in a small, low-volume segment that Buick expects to grow, but slowly.
''It could be bringing in empty-nesters, it could be bringing in young professionals,'' he said. ''We are not expecting huge volume, and we built our system and business case around it so that I don't think it is that big of a gamble.''
He declined, ever so nicely, to say how many of the cars Buick expected to sell.
With the Verano, G.M. has done a lovely job of knitting together upscale features, ride and handling at a competitive price. The question is to what extent Americans are willing to embrace the concept of ''small luxury'' -- and whether status-conscious buyers are ready to consider Buick.
INSIDE TRACK: A fanciful little gamble.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RE-ENGINEERED: The Verano borrows its platform from the Chevrolet Cruze.
OVERSTUFFED: The cabin is quiet and plush, but thick front seats steal space. (AU1)
 MOTIVATION: The Verano is aimed at upscale compacts like the Audi A3 and the Volvo C30. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GENERAL MOTORS) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); MARKETING STRATEGY (72%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (61%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



774 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: War Really Is Going Out of Style

BYLINE: By JOSHUA S. GOLDSTEIN and STEVEN PINKER. 
Joshua S. Goldstein, professor emeritus of international relations at American University, is the author of ''Winning the War on War: The Decline of Armed Conflict Worldwide.'' Steven Pinker, a psychology professor at Harvard, is the author of ''The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined.''

 BODY:
THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq brings relief to a nation that has endured its most painful war since Vietnam. But the event is momentous for another reason. The invasion of Iraq was the most recent example of an all-out war between two national armies. And it could very well be the last one.
The idea that war is obsolescent may seem preposterously utopian. Aren't we facing an endless war on terror, a clash of civilizations, the menace of nuclear rogue states? Isn't war in our genes, something that will always be with us? 
The theory that war is becoming passe gained traction in the late 1980s, when scholars noticed some curious nonevents. World War III, a nuclear Armageddon, was once considered inevitable, but didn't happen. Nor had any wars between great powers occurred since the Korean War. European nations, which for centuries had fought each other at the drop of a hat, had not done so for four decades.
How has the world fared since then? Armed conflict hasn't vanished, and today anyone with a mobile phone can broadcast the bloodshed. But our impressions of the prevalence of war, stoked by these images, can be misleading. Only objective numbers can identify the trends.
''War'' is a fuzzy category, shading from global conflagrations to neighborhood turf battles, so the organizations that track the frequency and damage of war over time need a precise yardstick. A common definition picks out armed conflicts that cause at least 1,000 battle deaths in a year -- soldiers and civilians killed by war violence, excluding the difficult-to-quantify indirect deaths resulting from hunger and disease. ''Interstate wars'' are those fought between national armies and have historically been the deadliest.
These prototypical wars have become increasingly rare, and the world hasn't seen one since the three-week invasion of Iraq in 2003. The lopsided five-day clash between Russia and Georgia in 2008 misses the threshold, as do sporadic clashes between North and South Korea or Thailand and Cambodia.
Countries remain armed and hostile, so war is hardly impossible. But where would a new interstate war plausibly erupt? Robert Gates, the former secretary of defense, said this year that ''any future defense secretary who advises the president to again send a big American land army into Asia or into the Middle East or Africa should have his head examined.''
Chinese leaders would deserve a similar workup if they blew off the very basis of their legitimacy, namely trade-based prosperity, by starting a war. (China has not fought a battle in 23 years.) India and Pakistan came dangerously close to war in 2002, but they backed off when both sides realized that millions would die and have since stabilized relations. Neither North nor South Korea could win a war at an acceptable cost.
What about other kinds of armed conflict, like civil wars and conflicts that miss the 1,000-death cutoff? Remarkably, they too have been in decline. Civil wars are fewer, smaller and more localized. Terrible flare-ups occur, and for those caught in the middle the results are devastating -- but far fewer people are caught in the middle. The biggest continuing war, in Afghanistan, last year killed about 500 Americans, 100 other coalition troops and 5,000 Afghans including civilians. That toll, while deplorable, is a fraction of those in past wars like Vietnam, which killed 5,000 Americans and nearly 150,000 Vietnamese per year. Over all, the annual rate of battle deaths worldwide has fallen from almost 300 per 100,000 of world population during World War II, to almost 30 during Korea, to the low teens during Vietnam, to single digits in the late 1970s and 1980s, to fewer than 1 in the 21st century.
As the political scientist John Mueller has pointed out, today's civil wars are closer to organized crime than traditional war. Armed militias -- really gangs of thugs -- monopolize resources like cocaine in Colombia or coltan in Congo, or terrorize the locals into paying tribute to religious fanatics, as in Somalia, Nigeria and the Philippines.
Nor has the suffering merely been displaced from soldiers to civilians. The much-quoted statistic that war deaths a century ago were 90 percent military and 10 percent civilian, while today the ratio is reversed, resulted from an error in a 1994 United Nations report that mistakenly compared deaths in World War I with refugees and wounded in the 1980s. The real ratio is around 50-50 and stable through time. Yes, atrocities against civilians continue, but consider a historical perspective. During World War II, Allied forces repeatedly and deliberately firebombed Axis cities, incinerating tens of thousands of civilians in a night. The Germans and Japanese did far worse. Today's rapes, ethnic cleansings and suicide bombings are just as atrocious, but much smaller in scale.
Why is war in decline? For one thing, it no longer pays. For centuries, wars reallocated huge territories, as empires were agglomerated or dismantled and states wiped off the map. But since shortly after World War II, virtually no borders have changed by force, and no member of the United Nations has disappeared through conquest. The Korean War caused a million battle deaths, but the border ended up where it started. The Iran-Iraq War killed 650,000 with the same result. Iraq's annexation of Kuwait in 1990 backfired. Israel seized land in 1967, but since then most has been returned and the rest remains contested.
The futility of conquest is part of the emergence of an international community regulated by norms and taboos and wielding more effective tools for managing conflicts. Among those tools, the United Nations' 100,000 deployed peacekeepers have measurably improved the success of peace agreements in civil wars.
War also declines as prosperity and trade rise. Historically, wealth came from land and conquest was profitable. Today, wealth comes from trade, and war only hurts. When leaders' power depends on delivering economic growth, and when a country's government becomes richer and stronger than its warlords, war loses its appeal.
Perhaps the deepest cause of the waning of war is a growing repugnance toward institutionalized violence. Brutal customs that were commonplace for millennia have been largely abolished: cannibalism, human sacrifice, heretic-burning, chattel slavery, punitive mutilation, sadistic executions. Could war really be going the way of slave auctions? Nothing in our nature rules it out. True, we still harbor demons like greed, dominance, revenge and self-deception. But we also have faculties that inhibit them, like self-control, empathy, reason and a sense of fairness. We will always have the capacity to kill one another in large numbers, but with effort we can safeguard the norms and institutions that have made war increasingly repugnant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marines crouch behind rock cover as they blow up a cave on Iwo Jima during World War II. (PHOTOGRAPH BY W. EUGENE SMITH/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); KOREAN WAR (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



775 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Cut, Hotels Step Up

 BODY:
To the Editor: Re ''Airlines Cut Back, Hotels Step In'' (Practical Traveler, Dec. 4), these days it doesn't seem that hotels would have to do too much or get too creative to provide better service than airlines. 
MARY K. FEENEY Chicago
To the Editor: This trend means that airlines are missing a great opportunity. If some passengers are willing to pay for extra services, then there's a market for those services. The fact that hotels have stepped into this market means that airlines are leaving money on the table. When will airlines respond? Not everyone wants to fly on a bus.
GLEN ALEXANDER Oakland, Calif.
To the Editor: Strange times. We may be living in a service economy, but that doesn't mean we get more service. What it means is that things you used to get free, or that were part of the experience, have been eliminated, to be replaced by a private provider of some sort who charges a separate amount.
Joan McClusky New York
To the Editor: If these services were being offered as additions to decent service by the airlines, then they would be welcomed. Instead, they are a way to get around horrid service. The airlines have written off the economy-class passenger and have decided that they don't really care how awful the experience is for the lowest-paying customers.
Doug Terry Olney, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIRLINES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



776 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 39A

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: A Road Trip, Mexican Style, to Watch the Cowboys

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
MONTERREY, Mexico --The convenience store was the last stop until the border on the road leading out of this industrial Mexican city, and Raul Vargas, a tour guide, made his instructions clear: the 24 die-hard Cowboys fans on his charter bus should get their snacks and beer now, because this bus would not stop again until it reached the United States Customs checkpoint in Laredo.
The sun had set an hour ago, and Mr. Vargas did not have to say what his passengers already knew: traversing these Mexican highways -- especially after dark -- could mean a run-in with the country's fiercest drug cartels.
For these travelers, who ranged from blue-collar construction laborers and freight-line managers to lawyers, professors and engineers, the chance to watch America's Team play in the new Cowboys Stadium was worth the risk, and the $400 round-trip fare. Their weekend trip to Texas included visits to a 160-acre flea market in Grand Prairie, a giant shopping mall in Arlington and an overnight stay at a hotel with a complimentary happy hour. 
But it was the final stop, to watch the Cowboys face the Giants, a division rival intent on taking the Pokes' first-place standing, that had been marked on their calendars for months.
Other N.F.L. teams, like the Houston Texans and the Oakland Raiders, have small followings in Mexico, but they do not compare with ''Los Vaqueros de Dallas,'' who have attracted a giant, devoted fan base in a country where American football ranks second to Mexican futbol.
Marco Antonio Martinez, 32, an engineer who boarded the bus in Monterrey, said that as a child he was drawn to cartoons on Sundays, not football. Then he tuned in to watch Michael Jackson perform at the halftime show during Super Bowl XXVII, in which the Cowboys clobbered the Buffalo Bills, 52-17.
''There was a pass from Troy Aikman to Michael Irvin where he had to launch himself forward to make the catch. I said, 'Wow,' and since then I've been a Cowboy,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''Sure, there's a risk. There's a lot of insecurity. But it's worth it to see the game.''
Travel With Fear
As the bus ambled toward the highway, the pick-up trucks of Nuevo Leon's fuerza civil, its state police, sped by, beds loaded with masked policemen wielding machine guns. The lawmen are this Mexican state's latest effort to quell the drug violence here, in a region once thought to be one of the last safe havens in Mexico's ongoing war against the cartels.
But the Zeta and Gulf cartels, former allies that split more than a year ago, have instead made Nuevo Leon the latest staging ground in their grisly battle for control of drug routes, resulting in some of the most gruesome scenes in Mexico's violent decade. In August, gunmen torched a famous casino in Monterrey, killing more than 50 guests, mainly women. These days, locals give friendly warnings to foreigners: do not go downtown after dark.
Jorge Millote, 26, a tax lawyer, was making his third trip to North Texas despite the warnings. For Mr. Millote, a devoted football fan, there were two options: drive his own car or go on the bus.
''I think it's a lot safer to come on the bus,'' he said. ''Before we leave, one crosses himself and prays for all to go well. But to travel with fear, no, not me.''
The violence, especially on the highways, has caused Mr. Vargas's business -- carting rabid Cowboys fans to Dallas for games -- to taper off in the last few years. An unsteady global economy and the Cowboys' abysmal 2010 season, in which they were eliminated from the postseason before December, did not help either.
''We have a lot of faith in the Cowboys, but right now they aren't playing that well,'' Mr. Vargas said as the bus barreled down the dark highway. He put some of the blame at the feet of quarterback Tony Romo; he is a bigger fan of the backup Stephen McGee.
Mr. Romo ''walks on the field with his head down,'' Mr. Vargas said. ''He lacks the leadership.''
A Long Tradition
The half-hour wait to get through security at Cowboys Stadium would pale in comparison with the wait at the international port of entry in Laredo. The bus arrived at 9:30 p.m. on a recent Friday -- nearly 48 hours before kickoff -- and passengers sat for hours before they were asked to show their visas.
Mr. Vargas, 51, is no stranger to this wait. At times, he has been stuck for nine hours. ''Have patience, people!'' he called.
As the bus rolled to a stop in Laredo, Mr. Vargas regaled his passengers with tales from his journeys during the era of Coach Tom Landry. ''Sometimes our drivers didn't even have a license,'' he said, chuckling. ''And sometimes we didn't even have tickets to the game.''
He and his passengers used to show up at the stadium ''with gifts, trinkets, bottles of tequila, other goods and give them to the guards.''
''If you sat in someone's seat, you'd just move when someone asked you to,'' he said.
Those days have passed. Mr. Vargas, in the third year of a 30-year contract with the Cowboys, now pays in advance. Each year, before the season, he receives an envelope filled with nearly $40,000 worth of tickets -- the price for 10 games, including two in the preseason, at $80 a pop. What he does not sell in Mexico he tries to unload in Texas.
''In each business, sometimes you win and sometimes you lose,'' Mr. Vargas said, one of the many lessons he doles out on the road.
Finally, at about 11:30 p.m., the travelers grabbed their luggage and headed for the X-ray machines. Tired and groggy, they did not complain. Their smiles said it all.
For Travelers, No Regrets
For these fans, game time could not come soon enough. Nearly 600 miles from Monterrey, they weaved their way through stadium traffic, donning Cowboys gear, double-checking their coolers and snapping pictures of one another, beaming.
The first-timers gaped at the colossal stadium and gawked at the world-famous Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders. Others got down to the business of the game, talking strategy. The beers, with their hefty $8.50 price tag, passed from father to son, from new friend to old comrade.
Hours later, the highs and lows of the game would rival the fear-tinged excitement on the bus trip through Mexico. The Cowboys, who led by 12 points with five minutes left, suffered yet another fourth-quarter collapse in a season filled with them. A last-second Cowboys field goal -- needed to tie the game -- was tipped by the Giants and fell short. As the ball hit the turf, more than 90,000 fans gave a collective sigh.
The weight of the defeat was not lost on these travelers, but to them, there were no regrets.
''Was the trip worth it? Of course,'' said Carlos Gallegos, 32, a freight manager from Saltillo, Coahuila, who made the trip from Monterrey. ''We're all of the same mindset, a little sad and heartbroken. But we all agree it was worth it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jose Nieto of Monterrey, Mexico, at Cowboys Stadium on Dec. 11. Mr. Nieto and other Mexican fans of the Cowboys took a tour bus from Monterrey to the game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KHAMPHA BOUAPHANH FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); CARTELS (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); RETAILERS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (64%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); HOUSTON TEXANS (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



777 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Increasingly, Smoking Indoors Is Forbidden at Public Housing

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
AUBURN, Me. -- Glenys Cushman was grabbing a quick cigarette here the other day outside her federally subsidized apartment. The rules say no smoking inside or within 25 feet of the entrance, and though she hates having to go outside, she has come to accept it.
''My neighbor is on oxygen,'' said Ms. Cushman, 53, who is on disability herself. ''And I can't quit. I tried. I get too worked up without smoking. So I come out here.''
In 2004, the Auburn Housing Authority became the first authority in Maine and one of the first in the country to ban smoking in public housing, and it has served as a model. On Jan. 1, Maine will become the first state in the country in which all of its public housing authorities are smoke free, affecting about 12,000 tenants.
Similar policies are being adopted with increasing frequency across the country as cities move aggressively to restrict smoking in more public places, from bars and restaurants to parks, beaches and vehicles. Come September, Boston will become the biggest city to ban smoking in its public housing, which serves about 25,000 tenants. Detroit, San Antonio and Portland, Ore., already have similar restrictions in place. 
The bans are largely a response to the risks posed to nonsmokers by secondhand smoke. In addition, property managers say smokeless apartments are cheaper to clean, especially if there is carpeting, and reduce the risk of fire.
Depending on who is asked, banning smoking in public housing is either an effective way to promote healthier living, as many officials and nonsmokers contend, or a violation of individual liberties, as some tenants argue. But after several years of such bans, the objections have gained no legal traction. Smokers are not perceived as a protected class, and civil liberties groups and legal aid societies say they tend not to defend such cases.
''On a personal level, you sympathize with people who want to do whatever they want in their own homes,'' said Matt Dyer, a staff attorney in the Lewiston, Me., office of Pine Tree Legal Assistance, which provides free legal aid for people at or below the poverty level. ''But legally, bans are O.K. There are so many legitimate issues that landlords can raise.''
Housing officials point out that they do not require tenants to quit, only to smoke outside, and they often provide shelters for smokers. They also offer smoking-cessation programs, although they say few people attend.
Many smokers just violate the ban and hope they avoid getting caught.
At Franklin Towers, a public housing high-rise in Portland, Me., Kevin Crocker, 55, said he was annoyed when a neighbor reported him for smoking in his apartment. ''They told me not to do it again,'' he said. ''But I don't like to go outside, especially at night, because I'm afraid of getting mugged and there are no security cameras.''
Officials recognize that a ban can be a burden for tenants, particularly because many are elderly or disabled. At Franklin Towers, where the elevators lumber slowly up 16 floors, Mark Adelson, the executive director of the Portland Housing Authority, half-joked that by the time smokers go outside and get back in, they need to go out again for another cigarette.
But secondhand smoke, Mr. Adelson said, is ''an overwhelming public policy issue.'' Officials at various housing authorities, including the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, say they hear far more complaints from nonsmokers about their neighbors who smoke than from smokers claiming the right to light up.
Susan Morin, 59, a former smoker who lives in Franklin Towers, said she appreciated the ban. ''Cigarettes will kill you,'' she said.
In 2005, only 32 housing authorities had smoking bans in effect, according to Jim Bergman, director of the Smoke-Free Environments Law Project in Michigan; by the end of this year, he said, 285, or about 9 percent of the total, will have enacted bans, affecting hundreds of thousands of tenants.
The federal housing department says it is planning to gather information next year on how various cities have carried out their bans and will publish a report of best practices, in the hope of encouraging more housing authorities to enact their own.
In Los Angeles, a spokeswoman said the Housing Authority was conducting a review and might consider a ban. In New York City, a Housing Authority spokeswoman said it had ''no position'' on a ban, but Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been one of the most aggressive advocates of ridding smoke from public spaces and clamping down on other health-related menaces like trans fats. A spokeswoman at the city's health department said officials were ''reviewing the experiences of other municipalities.''
The rapid adoption of smoking bans in public housing was spurred by the federal department, which issued a memorandum in July 2009 saying it ''strongly encourages'' housing authorities to enact them.
The federal department cited reports that secondhand smoke caused the deaths of 50,000 nonsmokers nationwide each year. In 2006, it said, smoking was responsible for more than 18,000 apartment fires that resulted in the deaths of 700 people, excluding firefighters, and caused almost $500 million in property damage.
It issued a second memorandum in September 2010 extending its recommendation to other types of public housing, including Section 8, which provides housing vouchers to low-income families. And last year, The New England Journal of Medicine called for a complete smoking ban in any housing complex receiving public money.
But HUD is not likely to require a ban nationwide anytime soon. Shauna Sorrells, director of public housing programs for the agency, said a mandate could result in evicting entire families, even if just one person smoked. Most housing authorities have long waiting lists, she said, and evictions would increase homelessness, especially in a sour economy.
The experience in Maine suggests that evictions solely for smoking violations are unusual.
''We've had a handful of cases where the person agreed to leave,'' said David Chamberlain, a lawyer who represents the Portland Housing Authority and other landlords. ''But we haven't taken any to trial, because they settle in some fashion or other.''
Rick Whiting, the longtime executive director of the Auburn Housing Authority, said he had seen a cultural change here during the seven years the ban has been in place.
Initially, Mr. Whiting said, there had been concern about fairness to smokers who were already in public housing apartments, and they were grandfathered in. But over time, he said, concern shifted to fairness to nonsmokers, and the dispensation for smokers was revoked, prompting some to quit the habit and some to move out.
Still, questions of fairness persist because those below the poverty line tend to smoke more than those above it. Studies show that, on average, 30 percent of people in public housing are smokers, compared with 20 percent of the general population.
''It's discrimination against the poor,'' said Nikki McLean, 66, a smoker who lives in public housing in Portland, Me.
Mrs. McLean, who has diabetes, arthritis, bad knees and other chronic conditions, was sitting in a wheelchair the other day inside her tiny home. It took her 10 minutes to get outside, transfer to a walker and make her way down a ramp and across the lawn so she could stand 25 feet from her doorway and have a cigarette.
''I've heard them say, 'We're doing it for their own good,' '' Mrs. McLean said. ''Like we're little idiots and we don't know what we're doing when we put a cigarette in our mouths.''
She said she had tried to quit but was addicted, and given the other challenges in her life, quitting smoking has not been a priority. But she is having knee surgery soon and said she hoped she would be in the hospital long enough to go through withdrawal and stop for good.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Residents at Franklin Towers, a public housing high-rise in Portland, Me., obeying a requirement that they smoke outdoors. On Jan. 1, all public housing authorities in the state will have banned smoking. (A25)
 It takes Nikki McLean 10 minutes to get from her home in public housing in Portland, Me., to a smoking area outside. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); LEGAL AID (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SMOKING CESSATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (68%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (67%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (64%); LAWYERS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (55%) MAINE, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



778 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: With Vows Exchanged, Break Out The Slides

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Recently at PowerHouse Arena in Dumbo, a loft-like store for arty bibliophiles, David Friedlander, a handsome guy whose career has a 21st-century way of resisting easy description, married Jacqueline Schmidt, an ethereal redhead -- a dancer once, a graphic artist now -- who seems to run on earnest optimism.
It would be easy to say that the couple, in their mid-30s, abhorred the idea of a traditional wedding, but Mr. Friedlander and Ms. Schmidt are not the sort of people who are in the business of abhorring things. They did not want their wedding ''to be just about us,'' the groom told me, but rather, about the world of creativity and social purpose that they inhabit. 
During the reception, Mr. Friedlander asked his guests to please recycle their cups, ''because we're really in a serious situation with climate change.'' There was no guest list in the formal sense; the reception was open to anyone who wished to attend. Friends came, and friends of friends, whom the couple had never met. Before the ceremony in the Brooklyn bookstore, Ms. Schmidt walked into the Starbucks at Main and Front Streets and told strangers they were welcome to drop by.
The history of social life in New York includes many nights that warrant noting -- the first of Caroline Webster Schermerhorn Astor's balls for the city's 400 wealthiest and most distinguished residents in 1892; any 2 a.m. at Max's Kansas City 80 years later; Sean Combs's inaugural White Party in the Hamptons in 1999. All of those proceedings revealed their particular cultural moments, and the Schmidt-Friedlander wedding tells us something as well. Few events have so perfectly distilled the essence of a certain New York lifestyle as it is practiced right now, one steeped in proselytizing, bohemian entrepreneurialism.
When guests arrived on Saturday night two weeks ago, they were greeted with name tags that asked them to declare a commitment. Lest they not take the request seriously, the hosts had additional cards printed that asked them to ''Name something you are really committed to.'' The cards contained further imperatives: ''Name one action you can take in the next 24 hours that is aligned with your commitment.'' Other cards prompted guests toward a treasure hunt in which they were encouraged to meet new people.
Ms. Schmidt, who once served as the creative director of Moomah, the children's cafe in Tribeca that caters to parents in denial about some of the distasteful aesthetics of child-rearing, made the cards in her favored style of heavy stock, neutral paper and quaint typefaces. Through her company, Screech Owl Design, Ms. Schmidt makes beautiful, twee paper products that would seem to demand an existence inside a Miranda July snow globe. Synergistically, Powerhouse is among the many places where Ms. Schmidt's work is sold.
Beyond any of that, though, the wedding was probably the first in the city to be held as a kind of TED conference. After the ceremony, in which chants were chanted and vows, written by the couple's friends, were exchanged, guests sat down to a series of talks, with PowerPoint presentations, on subjects of interest to the couple -- ecological efficiency, neuroscience, holistic healing. Those who did not care to listen wandered about eating dumplings and popcorn, which made up the entire nuptial meal.
The evening's keynote speaker, more or less, was Graham Hill, a TED alumnus -- Technology, Entertainment, Design, that is -- the founder of the Web site Treehugger, and Mr. Friedlander's employer at LifeEdited, where the groom works in marketing and communications. LifeEdited is a commercial enterprise and a movement, one that aims to get people to rid themselves of many of the excesses that industrial living has caused. Mr. Hill gave a talk about the importance of personal downsizing, which was largely a talk about his life.
Having made a lot of money in Internet businesses, Mr. Hill said, he first bought a big house and car and then got rid of possessions and traveled the world with only two bags, before moving into a trailer in Baja California, Mexico, and then into a cousin's garage in Maui, Hawaii. He found that he was quite happy.
When he moved to New York he settled into a small apartment. Soon he will move into 420 square feet of sleek, economically designed space in SoHo with a Murphy bed and movable walls. The purpose of LifeEdited is to develop more apartments and buildings like his and to get people to live with fewer things of higher quality. The motto of the movement is ''the luxury of less.'' (Mr. Hill did not seem aware of how unnerving it can be to hear rich people talk about the pleasures of not spending money.)
Ms. Schmidt and Mr. Friedlander live according to LifeEdited principles, in a small townhouse apartment with a long dining room table, a few Eames chairs, many plants and two cats. Eventually, when they have children, they'd like to have a house, one they would share with other people, where guest rooms and playrooms would be communal. Ms. Schmidt talks a great deal about her community, one that proved its devotion when she was sick a few years ago with a rare neurological syndrome that left her temporarily paralyzed. Her husband at the time was less helpful than she had hoped. But her friends, who by then included Mr. Friedlander -- they'd met on the L train a decade ago and he'd fallen in love -- did nearly everything for her.
There was a time when people like Ms. Schmidt and her husband might not have come to or remained in New York -- maybe they would have gone to Vermont or Northern California, where communitarian values are taken up more passionately. But they are here now as a classifiable type -- opening locavore restaurants, starting co-working facilities, making sustainable crafts -- both inspiring us and testing our cynicism. Their strain of progressivism never feels convincingly divorced from ambitious self-promotion. Mr. Friedlander and Ms. Schmidt pitched their wedding to the media. They saw the event not as an intimate exchange to share merely with close friends and family but as a platform for instructing the world in what they think. (Perhaps this is the logical endpoint of a Facebook culture in which life is lived as perpetual advertisement.)
Ms. Schmidt and Mr. Friedlander are both children of radical minded '60s parents. A few days after their wedding, I asked them how they believed they differed from that generation. ''We're a lot more driven,'' Mr. Friedlander said.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POWERPOINT PAIR: Jacqueline Schmidt and David Friedlander. (MB1)
 LISTEN UP: David Friedlander spoke at his wedding, above, where there were lectures instead of a meal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); BOOKSTORES (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (73%); DANCERS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%)

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



779 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Indicate This

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is a co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Economics is all about consumption. People either spend money now or they use financial instruments -- like bonds, stocks and savings accounts -- so they can spend more later. A healthy economy is largely a result of a reasonable balance between consumption today and consumption deferred, and it's pretty clear that balance has been ridiculously out of whack for a while.
Our current problem is that much of the world has shifted rapidly from consuming way more than it could afford to consuming far less. The subsequent whiplash has left many people (and, in some cases, entire countries) broke, unemployed and deeply pessimistic about the future. And while we can measure stock prices and bond rates, the key factor that determines consumption and, therefore, the health of the economy, lies in our psychology. Economists believe that what we feel about the state of the economy is best revealed not through what we say in surveys but rather through what we buy and exactly how much of it. There's a lot of data available, though none come with a prepackaged psychological narrative attached. So analysts do the best they can, combing through our national shopping lists hoping to uncover clues. Sometimes they find remarkably helpful information in very unlikely places. 
They also uncover plenty of cute facts that mean little. Consider this: 2011 was a banner year for the sale of insanely expensive fine wines at auction. Someone at a Christie's auction in Hong Kong, for example, bought 12 bottles of 1985 Romanee-Conti for a bit more than $150,000, or about $600 per sip. And the grand lesson this teaches us about the overall economy is . . . absolutely nothing. There's some meaning in this anecdote about how the superrich -- especially the newly superrich in China -- are doing far better than the rest of us. But that can't help us figure out if we're headed for a double dip, a stagnant decade or a sudden rebound.
To figure out what our buying behavior says about the U.S. economy's future, we have to understand what's going on in the middle class, the 50-percenters. And to figure this out, my colleagues and I at NPR's ''Planet Money'' went searching for as many shopping-based indicators as we could find, hoping some would unlock a hidden story about what Americans are feeling and where the country is headed.
The results were mixed, but we did uncover some ominous signs. Lipstick sales used to go up when the economy went down, perhaps because women were searching for a cheap pick-me-up or an edge in a job interview. For reasons nobody quite understands, the lipstick indicator doesn't hold up anymore, though nail-polish sales now seem to reflect the economy very clearly (albeit inversely). A rise in nail-polish sales indicates that we're searching for bargain luxuries as the economy craters -- and sales of nail polish are way up right now. Women's underwear sales are down, which historically suggests intense frugality and more rough times ahead.
But we were encouraged by the number of optimistic indicators we uncovered. There is good news in cemetery-plot sales. They seem to have peaked a couple years ago when desperate families were unloading unused holes in the ground (though cremation numbers are rising). Sales of cardboard boxes, because everything from electronics to clothing is packaged in them, should also be a strong indicator of economic rejuvenation. (Current production -- enough to paper over the entire state of Maryland -- portends recovery.) Sales of men's underwear, one of Alan Greenspan's favorite metrics for predicting growth, are also up. Sales of cheap spirits, which soared during the worst of the recession (people need an affordable way to self-medicate), have now stabilized, meaning, at the very least, people can now afford better liquor.
Of all the indicators we looked at, one of the most consistently accurate was Champagne sales. The amount of French Champagne that Americans consume has predicted -- with nearly 90 percent accuracy -- the average American income one year later. Apparently, when we pop a Champagne cork, we know that good times are ahead (see chart). Champagne sales hurtled upward twice in recent history -- at the peak of the Internet bubble in 1999 and during the heyday of the housing bubble in 2007. These were both followed by slowdowns as fewer people found reason to celebrate.
There are so many indicators to choose from that you could glean just about anything regarding our economic future. In fact, the most telling indicator appears to be the sheer number of indicators themselves. Americans now have so many seductive things they can buy that there are ample consumer options no matter what we feel. Partly as a result, savings -- known in economics as deferred consumption -- have fallen steadily for more than 30 years, from a high of nearly 12 percent of income. It kissed zero before a tiny uptick in the past couple years.
The decline of the savings rate is particularly troubling because it is consistent through busts and booms. During the fast growth of the late 1990s and mid-2000s, and the dark times that followed, people have been choosing to spend more and save less than ever before. Paradoxically, this happened just as pensions have been disappearing and life spans have been increasing. It suggests that Americans are so caught up in every short-term enthusiasm or agony that they haven't thought enough about long-term fiscal health.
When the dust clears from the current crisis in a year or 2 or 10, it will probably become obvious that the recent decades were a giddy consumption mirage fueled, in part, by free-flowing foreign debt. The world won't lend the United States money for nothing forever (though, downgrade aside, nobody has told the world that yet), and the country can't keep buying a lot more from everyone else than it is able to sell them. America will, most likely, need to find a more normal, sustainable level of consumption, and that's exactly the problem. We don't know what normal consumption looks like. Over much of the last few decades, we gave in to every shopping whim, with little thought to the future, except for those times we were so dispirited, we wouldn't spend at all. What does a reasonable balance between consumption now and consumption deferred actually look like? That's what we need to figure out.
Deep Thoughts This Week:
1. Psychology and economics have a complicated relationship.
2.Through market ups and downs, we're still saving less money than ever before.
3. Drink better hooch!

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER JEFFERS)(MM12)
 CHART: What Could Champagne Sales Possibly Say About U.S. Income? (A Lot Actually) (SOURCE: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF WINE ECONOMISTS/NEW YORK UNIVERSITY) (MM14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



780 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ANGER BY IRAQI SUNNIS'
LEADS TO PARLIAMENT BOYCOTT
One of the largest and most powerful political groups in Iraq launched a boycott of Parliament, signaling fresh waves of political dysfunction that threaten to unravel Iraq's year-old governing coalition. The turmoil, rooted in sectarian tensions, comes just days after the formal end of the American military mission there. Page 9
MEDVEDEV URGES REFORM 
President Dmitri A. Medvedev said that Russia's political system has ''exhausted itself'' and must be changed, and that Russian authorities should accept that street protests reflect ''the mood of our people.'' Page 17
HUNDREDS KILLED IN FLOODS
Flash floods in the southern Philippines sent water gushing into homes, killing more than 400 people and surprising families who fled to rooftops clutching children, officials said. Page 17
DEFENSE CHIEF VISITS LIBYA
Leon E. Panetta became the first defense secretary to visit Tripoli. He arrived to assess the progress and challenges facing a post-revolutionary government struggling to control the disparate rebel bands that ousted Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi with the support of NATO attacks from air and sea. Page 18
National
REFRAMING THE DEBATE
OVER DRIVER PHONE USE
In a call for states to ban all phone use by drivers, the head of a federal agency introduced a new comparison: distracted driving is like smoking. The new tack echoes a growing consensus among scientists that using phones can be compulsive. Page 19
SEASONAL LOBSTER TRAP TREES
The towns of Beals and Jonesport, Me., have completed their annual holiday display: A conical tower of 1,364 lobster traps. The lobster trap tree is a tradition in fishing towns along New England's northern coast. Festive monuments of local pride, they celebrate the season and affirm the local economy. Page 19
GINGRICH'S RESURGENCE
In early October, while campaigning in South Carolina, Newt Gingrich was beginning to sense a change in his fortunes. His instincts were right. His debate performances, and mastery at generating free publicity, earned him another look from voters. Page 34
THIRD-PARTY PATH CLEARED
In 2012, courtesy of a group called Americans Elect, some lucky independent candidate will have the chance to enter the race with all but guaranteed nationwide ballot access. Page 32
New York
A PUBLIC ARTIST MAKES PLANS
FOR A NEW MAJOR PROJECT
If her proposal ''Behold,'' a 24-hour multimedia extravaganza of lighting, time-lapse filming, poetry and music comes to fruition, it will be Kristin Jones's first major public art project in New York City since ''Metronome,'' the nine-story, 500-ton, $4.2 million, steam-spouting installation that she unveiled 12 years ago. Page 38
Sports
AT NEW YORK JETS GAMES SIDELINES AREN'T FOR SITTING
At an N.F.L. game, not all of the action occurs on the field. The sideline is the team's nerve center, a hub of continuous activity. The Jets' benches are configured in a certain way, to Rex Ryan's specifications. ''If you didn't know better, it might look like chaos,'' safety Brodney Pool said. ''But it's organized chaos.'' Page 1
INSIDE A MET'S STRUGGLE
When he reports to spring training in February, a camera crew will follow Andres Torres, putting the finishing touches on a documentary about his life, ''Gigante,'' which he and the filmmakers hope will increase awareness about attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, which he continues to overcome. Page 7
Sunday Business
WASHINGTON MUTUAL DEAL
SEEMS TO BE OUT OF BALANCE
Washington Mutual's collapse was the largest bank failure in American history. The $64.7 million settlement struck by regulators and former executives seems small, Gretchen Morgenson writes. Page 1
Automobiles
A MODERN FOLLOWING
FOR EARLY DETROIT COMPACTS
Like mood rings and pet rocks, Detroit's subcompact cars from the 1970's boast a small following among collectors. Sports, Page 11
Magazine
WHEN ALL ELSE FAILS
THERE'S ALWAYS GOLF
In Benton Harbor, Mich., the gaping American class chasm is just a tee shot away. Page 36
Style
FACEBOOK-STYLE SKILLS
IN NEW YORK'S SOCIAL SCENE
Since moving to Manhattan, Sean Parker, a founder of Napster and former president of Facebook, has considerably enlivened New York's social scene. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
LOOKING BACK ON A YEAR
OF ENTERTAINMENT
Films to make you want to schlep to the cinema in this age of Netflix and instant online streaming video, music that celebrates the smooth and the cantankerous alike, stories told in movement or shouted on stage: these are the moments in culture for 2011, and they merit a look back as the world prepares for a new year. Page 1
Book Review
AN AUTHOR COMES TO GRIPS
WITH THE VOICES IN HIS HEAD
Philip K. Dick, a science fiction writer famous for wrestling with the nature of perception, compiled countless notes on the messages that he said he received from a spiritual being. ''The Exegesis of Philip K. Dick,'' by Pamela Jackson, Jonathan Lethem and Erik Davis, collates and publishes these notes. Page 24
Editorial
REFORMS COULD SAVE
MONEY AND MEDICARE
Medicare reforms could save hundreds of billions of dollars without scrapping the system. Sunday Review, page 10
ALABAMA'S SECOND THOUGHTS
Alabama's stance on its strict immigration law is shifting to damage control, as Gov. Robert Bentley admits that the law needs fixing. Sunday Review, page 10
Op-Ed
FRANK BRUNI
Arrogance is a given for those who would be president. But Newt Gingrich's ego is something special. Sunday Review, Page 3
MAUREEN DOWD
Art reflecting life, or vice versa? The end of the Iraq war and Season 1 of ''Homeland'' have everyone on edge. Sunday Review, Page 11
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
The Times withheld the name of a boy in the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse case, but it didn't protect his identity. Sunday Review, Page 12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (90%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (74%); FAMILY (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); LEON E PANETTA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



781 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4069 words

HEADLINE: The Price To Play Its Way

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
KNOXVILLE, Tenn.
THE library at the Duncan School of Law may look like nothing more than 4,000 hardbacks in a medium-size room, but it is actually a high-tech experiment in cost containment. Most of its resources are online, and staples like Wright & Miller's Federal Practice and Procedure -- $3,596 for the multivolume set -- are not here.
''We have a core collection,'' says Sydney Beckman, the school's dean, ''and if someone needs something else, we provide it.''
Duncan, which opened two years ago, has 187 enrollees, all of whom have wagered that this library -- and everything else about the school -- is up to scratch. Because before these students can practice in every state, Duncan needs the seal of approval of the American Bar Association, the government-anointed regulator of law schools. 
That means complying with a long list of standards that shape the composition of the faculty, the library and dozens of other particulars. The basic blueprint was established by elite institutions more than a century ago, and according to critics, it all but prohibits the law-school equivalent of the Honda Civic -- a low-cost model that delivers.
Instead, virtually every one of the country's 200 A.B.A.-accredited schools, from the lowliest to the most prestigious, has to build a Cadillac, or at least come close. Duncan's library costs $750,000 a year to maintain -- a bargain when compared with competitors.
Is it Cadillac enough for the A.B.A.?
''We'll see,'' Mr. Beckman says.
The debate about legal education has focused on tuition costs in the stratospheric layers of the law-school world. But what of the ground floor? Duncan hopes to draw students from economically distressed parts of the country, including the Appalachian Mountains of Tennessee, and sincere efforts have been made to keep overhead to a minimum.
But tuition here is still $28,664 a year. With living expenses and various fees, the student handbook warns, the total price tag for a year runs $50,000.
The reason, according to Pete DeBusk, a retired businessman and the school's main benefactor, is the A.B.A. standards. Without them, he says, Duncan could have cut its tuition in half, maybe by two-thirds.
''The rules, the regulations,'' Mr. DeBusk moans, recalling the day he first met with officials of the A.B.A. four years ago. ''Massive. Just massive. 'We've got this standard, we've got that standard' -- and the standards don't ever stop. I realized then that I'd bitten off a big bite, O.K.? And I'm still chewing on it!''
Anyone willing to invest $175,000 on a legal education, and hoping to earn a pile of money at a corporate firm, has plenty of options. But let's say that your ambition is to make a modest living, perhaps in an area that is struggling. Or that you'd rather not enter your mid-20s lashed to a six-figure loan.
If you want a diploma blessed by the A.B.A. -- and you don't have rich parents, a plum scholarship or an in-state public law school with lots of taxpayer support -- you are pretty much out of luck. And that is not just a problem for would-be attorneys. The lack of affordable law school options, scholars say, helps explain why so many Americans don't hire lawyers.
''People like to say there are too many lawyers,'' says Prof. Andrew Morriss of the University of Alabama School of Law. ''There are too many lawyers who charge $300 an hour. There aren't too many lawyers who will handle a divorce at a reasonable rate, or handle a bankruptcy at a reasonable rate. But there is no way to be that lawyer and service $150,000 worth of debt.''
This helps explain a paradox: the United States churns out roughly 45,000 lawyers a year, but survey after survey finds enormous unmet need for legal services, particularly in low- and middle-income communities. This year, the World Justice Project put the United States dead last among 11 high-income countries in providing access to civil justice.
It's not just that many lawyers are prohibitively expensive. It is that when it comes to legal expertise, there are not a lot of cheaper alternatives -- not in the United States, anyway. Britain, on the other hand, has a long menu of options, including a tier of professionals called legal executives, who are licensed after getting the equivalent of a community college degree. Counsel is also available from nonlawyers at a variety of nonprofits. And you can buy a simple divorce over the Internet for a set fee, or pay for customized legal advice, online or by phone.
''In the U.S., people and businesses have only one place to go for all their legal help -- lawyers who graduated from an A.B.A.-approved law school and who follow mostly A.B.A. rules about how they run their practice,'' says Gillian Hadfield, a professor at the Gould School of Law of the University of Southern California. ''Everyone else who offers legal advice is engaged in the unauthorized practice of law.''
To understand why Americans have one option for legal counsel, and why even start-up law schools are so expensive, you need to understand the various roles played by the A.B.A., say Ms. Hadfield and others.
With nearly 400,000 members and a staff of 939, the A.B.A. is the pre-eminent association of the profession. It also drafts and amends the Model Rules of Professional Conduct, which have been adopted by every state except California. Then there is the A.B.A.'s gatekeeper role in law school education, through its Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar.
Detractors contend that these responsibilities allow the A.B.A. to behave like a guild -- limiting competition and keeping the cost of legal education excessively high.
In 1995, those accusations were leveled by the Department of Justice in an antitrust suit that charged that A.B.A. standards had artificially inflated faculty salaries. The A.B.A. signed a consent decree, agreeing to a number of strictures intended to pry the process out of the hands of legal academics and end the fixing of salaries
Since then, the cost of law school tuition has soared, though at the high end, those prices are not the fault of the A.B.A. They are attributable to the prestige race prompted by U.S. News & World Report's rankings of law schools, along with the wide availability of student loans.
What the A.B.A. can be blamed for, says George B. Shepherd, a professor at the Emory University School of Law, are exorbitant prices even at those schools that aspire to affordability. That, he maintains, is all about accreditation.
Consider business schools, Mr. Shepherd says.
If your dream is to work at Goldman Sachs, ''you can go to Harvard Business School and spend a couple hundred thousand dollars, in tuition and forgone earnings,'' he says. ''If you just want to move up the management ranks at Macy's, you can take part-time evening classes and spend $10,000 for a degree. The part-time school may not be accredited, but this gets to the difference -- state law says you can become an attorney only if you attend an accredited law school. There's no law that says you need to attend an accredited business school in order to practice business.''
Professor Shepherd says aspiring lawyers should have the same choices as aspiring executives and managers. Others say the case against the A.B.A.'s standards is that they are one-size-fits-all and overly rigid, which drives up the cost of both a diploma and of legal services.
A result is an expensive quandary for potential clients, says Professor Morriss of the University of Alabama. ''Maybe you need a plumber,'' he says. ''But you have to hire a brain surgeon.''
Members of the A.B.A. Section say the point of the standards is not to raise the cost of law school, or to limit competition. The point is to ensure that lawyers are well trained and that the public gets quality legal services.
''It's pretty basic, and more or less the accreditation function that you'll see for any profession,'' says John O'Brien, chairman of the Section and dean of the New England School of Law. ''You want to make certain that a school that is nationally approved is providing students with what they have a right to receive in terms of education. And at the other end you want to protect the public and make certain that graduates who offer themselves as qualified lawyers know what they're doing.''
Mr. O'Brien goes on to offer a mental exercise for deans. ''Look at the standards and ask: 'What is it that the A.B.A. requires that I wouldn't be doing anyway?' The answer is precious little, if anything.''
IN early November, Mr. DeBusk and Mr. Beckman met in a lobby of the Duncan School of Law to offer a tour of the premises.
Mr. Beckman, the dean, was preparing for a hearing, set for Dec. 2, before Mr. O'Brien's council, to determine whether provisional accreditation would be granted to Duncan.
Provisional accreditation is an intermediate step on the way to full accreditation, and a school can apply for it only after it has been operating for at least a year. For this reason, accreditation isn't just expensive, it's also risky.
In the case of other professional schools, he says, ''you go to the accreditors before you open your doors, and they work with you from the beginning. And if you're not in compliance, they will tell you. The A.B.A. says you can't even apply for accreditation until you've completed your first year. That's a huge difference.''
Duncan, as it happens, does not need the A.B.A.'s imprimatur. Tennessee is one of the few states that allow graduates of law schools that have only state or regional accreditation to sit for the bar. But to Duncan's backers, A.B.A. approval is considered crucial.
The school is part of Mr. DeBusk's alma mater, Lincoln Memorial University, and just the latest of many philanthropic projects that he hopes will turn L.M.U. into what he calls ''a little Duke.'' That means appealing to applicants beyond Tennessee, including those in the Appalachians of Kentucky, where he grew up, in a Landola trailer home.
Mr. DeBusk earned a fortune through a medical device company he founded, DeRoyal Industries. Now, he says, he would like to spend the rest of his life and much of his wealth elevating others in the region.
''A lot of people talk about Appalachia,'' he says, ''but how many people do anything for it?''
Duncan's largest single cost is its faculty, which, as with most A.B.A.-accredited law schools, consumes about half its total budget. This is the only expense that Mr. Beckman declines to detail, other than to say that he has three adjuncts and 16 full-time professors. Adjuncts are basically part-timers and far less expensive. But the A.B.A. prohibits an adjuncts-only faculty by requiring that full-time faculty teach a major portion of the entire curriculum. The standards don't come right out and state that tenure must be offered, but that is strongly implied. It's also implied that these professors get time to produce scholarship, such as law review articles. This is expensive. It obligates schools to give researching professors lower teaching loads and hire yet more instructors to cover all the classes that students need.
The more you look at a law school's ledgers, the more life in the legal academy seems a sweet deal. And it's been getting sweeter. Course loads have shrunk in the last couple of decades; the pay scale is high and has been rising. Median salaries are in the $120,000-to-$150,000 range, but superstars can earn $300,000 or more and the best of the best get pretty special housing deals. Over the summer, the New York University School of Law spent $5.6 million on two apartments in the West Village. A spokesman for the school said it had yet to determine whether the units would be combined and who would live there.
''It's a wonderful life,'' says Nancy Rapoport, a professor at the Boyd School of Law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and author of an article for the Indiana Law Journal, ''Eating Our Cake and Having It Too: Why Real Change Is So Difficult in Law Schools.''
''You've got a lot of happy law professors, who don't want to change anything,'' Ms. Rapoport said. ''They may not realize how precarious legal education is, and the legal market is, right now. That's human nature. Everything is going well. Let's keep it the way it is.''
The argument for high salaries has always been that law professors could earn even more money at a law firm. As for tenure, one oft-cited reason for requiring it is that the most sought-after talent demands it, putting a school that doesn't offer tenure at a disadvantage.
''I need to get the best teachers out there,'' says Mr. O'Brien, the council chairman, ''and the fact of the matter is that in order to do that, to compete for top-quality faculty, I have to offer tenure.''
That said, Mr. O'Brien pointed out that the tenure requirement was under review and had been hotly debated for at least a dozen years. What is under consideration is nothing more than giving schools the option of not offering tenure. To David E. Van Zandt, former dean of the Northwestern University School of Law and now president of the New School, this is evidence that the legal academy remains strikingly impervious to change.
''The standards are a damper on innovation,'' Mr. Van Zandt said. ''They are a very powerful force and they are controlled by legal insiders, particularly faculty. And if they can control the regulations so that it benefits them, why not? They are no different than any other interest group out there.''
Since the consent decree, the A.B.A. has required that a majority of members on accreditation-related committees be something other than law school faculty members. On Mr. O'Brien's council, for instance, 10 of the 21 members are either professors or deans. Most of the rest are lawyers or judges.
A.B.A. critics have long argued that faculty members, even if technically a minority, hold the most sway on accreditation-related committees because they care most about the committees' rulings. And whatever safeguards keep the bar association's Section on Legal Education independent and separate, it is still dominated by A.B.A. members.
''Let's suppose I wanted to start a newspaper in New York City,'' Mr. Beckman, the dean at Duncan, says. ''But to get permission I need to go before a council, and The New York Times is sitting on that council. If I get permission, that means advertisers and resources are potentially going to detract from The Times. Well, there are a finite number of people applying to law school, and applications have been declining. The fact that other law schools get to decide whether we are accredited seems a little bit like a conflict of interest.''
Mr. O'Brien maintains that the accreditation-related committees are scrupulously fair.
''I think the council that I sit on, and the Standards Review Committee that weighs all this, are legitimately trying to figure out what is best for legal education,'' he says. ''I don't think they are looking to feather the nest of faculty. I have a lot of faith in the people on these committees. These are people with tremendous integrity.''
THE A.B.A. won its role in legal education after a messy battle that began early in the 20th century. At the time, dozens of profit-making night schools were springing up, offering a more practical curriculum at a fraction of the tuition charged by established schools. From 1890 to 1930, the number of law schools tripled, and most of the increase came from night schools, according to Mr. Shepherd of Emory University and William G. Shepherd, authors of ''Scholarly Restraints? A.B.A. Accreditation and Legal Education.''
To say that these night schools and their graduates appalled the A.B.A.'s core membership hardly captures the horror. Thousands of new lawyers were suddenly flowing into the market, many of them poor immigrants. Some of these night-school graduates were accused of incompetence, though notably those accusations came from the legal establishment, both in the field and in academia. The dean of Yale described night schools as a ''rank weed'' and urged their closure.
The A.B.A. spent more than 30 years working toward that goal. In its way stood a formidable obstacle named Gleason Archer. A native of Maine who started as a cook for lumberjacks, Mr. Archer founded the Suffolk Law School in Boston, and by 1928 it was one of the largest law schools in the world, with 4,000 enrollees.
''Opportunity's open door'' was Suffolk's motto. The school catered to middle- and lower-class men who worked during the day.
''I'd run up Beacon Hill in my overalls with greasy hands,'' wrote George Fingold, a Suffolk graduate who served as attorney general of Massachusetts in the 1950s. ''I'd wash and change into clean clothes and then run to class. For me, Suffolk Law was my last hope to make something of myself.''
The A.B.A. made little headway against night schools, and for years its list of approved institutions was all but ignored -- until the Depression. With legal work evaporating, it wasn't hard to persuade those scraping by in the profession that it was time to curtail production of new competitors.
By 1935, the A.B.A., with an assist from the Association of American Law Schools, had persuaded nine states to adopt rules that required a degree from an approved law school. In the next six years, 32 more states followed. Victory for the A.B.A. was complete when the G.I. Bill mandated that federal loans for returning soldiers could be used only at A.B.A.-approved law schools.
In 1952, the federal government designated the A.B.A. as the official accrediting body of law schools. By then, dozens of unaccredited schools had already closed. Suffolk was nearly one of them. The school almost failed during World War II, and in 1948 its board yielded to the inevitable and fired Gleason Archer. A decade later, Suffolk was granted A.B.A. accreditation.
Mr. Archer's vision of low-cost legal education did not vanish. It lives on in places like the Nashville School of Law, a night school that started as the Nashville Y.M.C.A. Night Law School in 1911. Nashville's graduates are not recruited by large corporate firms. Most will remain in Tennessee, because only a few states deem a diploma from a school that lacks A.B.A. accreditation as a ticket to practice.
But tuition costs $21,000 -- in total, for all four years it takes to complete the degree. The reasons? Nobody has tenure. There are no full-time professors. The library costs $65,000 a year.
''Our mission from Day 1,'' says Virginia M. Townzen, associate dean, ''was to provide a quality, affordable education to those who might not otherwise be able to attend law school.''
The graduates get high marks from local judges, including Lawrence H. Puckett of the 10th Judicial District of Tennessee. ''Some of our more outstanding practitioners have come through the Nashville School,'' he said. ''Many of the teachers are judges that I know, and I'm sure they are excellent instructors. But I think it's also the quality of students. They persevere while also holding down a job. That speaks highly of their character.''
One recent Nashville graduate is Tad Wintermeyer, who was a 26-year-old pilot and airplane mechanic when he enrolled in 2005. His monthly cost for tuition ''was like an expensive utility bill,'' he says. In 2009, he left with a J.D. and no debt. He took judicial appointments as a public defender, which paid about $25,000 his first year of practice.
''Almost all of my clients were indigent, or low income, or on some kind of government assistance,'' he says. ''It was incredibly rewarding work.''
More recently, he started his own practice, renting a $300-a-month space at Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport. Some of his clients now pay his standard $150-an-hour fee, and he does free legal work for veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, whom he has met through his role as a judge advocate general in the Fourth Regiment of the Tennessee State Guard.
''I would not be able to make the significant contribution of my time to pro bono legal service and as a volunteer member of the State Guard,'' he wrote in an e-mail, ''if I had to worry about a mountain of school debt hanging over me.''
What Mr. Wintermeyer has given up in prestige, interstate mobility and income, he says, he has gained in peace of mind, not to mention the freedom to donate his time. There are, of course, thousands of graduates of A.B.A.-accredited schools who are every bit as satisfied with their degrees.
But compare Mr. Wintermeyer's circumstances with those of Keri-Ann Baker, who graduated from the Loyola University School of Law in Chicago in 2004. Tuition was about $33,000 a year, Ms. Baker says, and she left with $200,000 in loans -- about half spent on tuition, the other half on books, fees and living expenses. She quickly abandoned her long-held ambition to become a prosecutor because the pay in the Florida county where she and her husband settled was $42,000 a year. She now earns $90,000 a year at a midsize corporate firm. It is barely enough money.
''Right now, loans control every aspect of my life,'' she said. ''Where I practice, the number of children I'll have, where I live, the type of house I can live in. I honestly believe I'll be a grandparent before I pay off my loans. I have yet to make even a dent in them.''
THIS has been a difficult year for the A.B.A. It has been peppered with insistent letters by members of Congress -- most notably Senators Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, and Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa -- over a number of accusations of failings. Among the contentions is that the organization has not done enough to prevent law schools from overstating the current job prospects of graduates.
The A.B.A. has lobbed back lengthy and detailed letters to Capitol Hill, which appear to have done little to lower the temperature. Threats of Congressional hearings have surfaced in the news media.
In this volley of correspondence, the A.B.A. has noted that it would be an antitrust violation to cap or limit the number of law schools. That is true, but it suggests that the debate about legal education is focused in the wrong place. What ails the law school market isn't a lack of regulation, says Clifford Winston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and co-author of a book, ''First Thing We Do, Let's Deregulate All the Lawyers.'' He says it's the near-total absence of competition.
''The A.B.A. is a powerful group that has a strong status-quo bias,'' he says. ''Getting them to turn things around is obviously quite difficult because they're looking out for their own interests.''
Still, Ms. Hadfield at U.S.C. calls herself an optimist. She thinks federal and state governments could set up other accrediting agencies and licensing bodies to oversee training and licensing of other types of legal providers. (In England, eight different bodies license legal services.)
Her vision isn't a free-for-all, where anyone can hang a shingle; it is a range of options that would entail an array of educational degrees and a broad spectrum of prices and formats for legal services.
''The more we talk about this,'' she says, ''the more we can dislodge the idea that the highest value is to provide a state bar licensed lawyer from an A.B.A.-accredited school to everyone who needs legal help.''
ON Dec. 2, Mr. Beckman and six colleagues from Duncan traveled to a hotel in San Juan, P.R., where the A.B.A. held its latest council meeting. The school had 15 minutes at a hearing to offer its arguments for provisional accreditation.
''This is just a pet peeve,'' Mr. Beckman said last week, ''but there is all this talk about the cost of legal education, and they make us fly to Puerto Rico and meet at the Ritz-Carlton?''
After his presentation, Mr. Beckman and others answered a number of questions, including a few about the job market for lawyers in east Tennessee. This bothered Mr. Beckman because, for antitrust reasons, employment prospects are not part of the A.B.A.'s standards. He pointed that out to the council.
''They didn't really respond,'' he says.
Nor did they hint at whether they would give Duncan a thumbs-up. In the past, law schools have learned a few days after their hearings. But since Dec. 2, there has been nothing. ''The last thing we heard -- and they didn't mean this to be rude or anything -- was at the end of the meeting in Puerto Rico,'' Mr. Beckman says. ''They said, 'You can let yourselves out.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sydney Beckman, left, is the dean of the Duncan School of Law. The school, right, part of Lincoln Memorial University, is seeking provisional accreditation from the American Bar Association. While Tennessee allows graduates of law schools with only state or regional accreditation to sit for the bar, A.B.A. accreditation would open the law school to a broader range of students.
Pete DeBusk, who founded a medical device company, DeRoyal Industries, is the main benefactor of Lincoln Memorial University. ''A lot of people talk about Appalachia,'' he says, ''but how many people do anything for it?'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK MURPHY-RACEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Tad Wintermeyer, above, rents space for his practice at Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport. Keri-Ann Baker, left, in Boynton Beach, Fla., said her student loan debt determined many aspects of her life.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN POYNTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); ACCREDITATION (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (73%); APPROVALS (68%); MOUNTAINS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (74%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



782 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: A Holding-Pattern Home

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
DARA KASS grew up in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, in an attached two-family house. (Her grandparents lived downstairs.) Her husband, Michael, grew up in doorman buildings on the Upper West Side.
Their first apartment together was a large one-bedroom in Zeckendorf Towers in Union Square. Five years ago, when they were about to start a family, Park Slope seemed an obvious choice.
Dr. Kass, an emergency room physician, said she needed street parking; she drives to work at Staten Island University Hospital. Also, she said, ''I wanted to be in a more suburbanesque-feeling place.''
In the spring of 2007, they bought a two-bedroom for $1.25 million at 35 Prospect Park West, one of Park Slope's few full-service doorman co-op buildings. Monthly maintenance was a little more than $1,000. 
The couple and their children, Hannah, now 4, and Charlie, 2, loved the apartment and the neighborhood. Mr. Kass said he particularly enjoyed ''the really great sense of community, whether it's the merchants' knowing your name or a community of kids for your kids.'' He added, ''I never had that growing up.''
But they quickly outgrew their 1,500 square feet. The dining room became a playroom, and they were planning to have a third child.
In addition, they were uncomfortable with stagnant housing values. ''My view is, the market is likely to go sideways for the next decade or so,'' Mr. Kass said, ''and it's not a great place to have money.'' He is an analyst for a hedge fund.
''Michael, as a finance guy, was convinced that it's the wrong time in the economic cycle to own an apartment,'' said Dr. Kass, who like her husband is in her 30s. ''There is no glory in homeownership anymore.''
So, last summer, they determined to sell their co-op and hunt for a larger place to rent. Their idea was to test out a whole new way of living. They had experienced life in a building where ''there is someone 24 hours taking care of your needs,'' Dr. Kass said.
This time, expecting eventually to settle in a brownstone, they wanted to live in one, ''to see if we hated it,'' she said. ''You can test-drive a car. If you could shower and sleep in a place before you bought it, that would be neat.''
They sought a duplex or triplex rental with at least three bedrooms. It had to have stairs, ''because I was doing this to figure out what it was like to live with stairs,'' Dr. Kass said.
A stunning five-bedroom triplex on Carroll Street was filled with original details, including stained glass. By the time the Kasses saw it, the price was down to $8,900 a month (from $9,500). But it was simply too pricey and too big. ''The kids are a little too young for a separate floor,'' Mr. Kass said. ''In a couple of years we will probably feel very differently about that.''
They needed two-thirds of the house at two-thirds of the price, Dr. Kass said. And that's what they found on Clinton Street, not far away in Cobble Hill. A beautifully renovated triplex, with four bedrooms, was available for $6,500 a month. But someone else rented it before they could.
They realized that with rentals of the caliber they were seeking, rents were often not negotiable. ''There weren't a lot of families willing to spend that much money,'' Dr. Kass said, ''but a lot of corporations were, which was very frustrating.''
The Kasses also looked into duplexes for sale, to see if the owners would consider renting, but nobody bit.
On Craigslist, up popped a listing for a duplex on Third Street, for $4,850 a month. It included a living area downstairs, three bedrooms upstairs, a bathroom on each floor and a deck off the master bedroom. The layout was perfect.
''After having spent so much time looking at other places,'' Mr. Kass said, ''we thought it was the deal of the century. It hit everything we wanted. It was true vertical living.''
They had plenty of interest in their co-op, and sold it for $1.275 million using realdirect.com, which charges either a monthly fee of $395 or 1 percent of the sale price. They were content to more or less break even and relieved to be out of the market.
''Buying,'' Dr. Kass said, ''you have no skin in the game until you buy. Selling, you have all your skin in the game.''
They signed a two-year lease on their new rental. Their landlords, who live downstairs, replaced the carpeting on the staircase. As an emergency-room doctor, Dr. Kass knows that a fall down uncarpeted stairs produces more serious injuries than a fall down a carpeted flight. The family will soon be adding baby gates -- Dr. Kass is pregnant again.
They can't renovate, because their place is a rental. ''Michael likes it because it keeps me at bay,'' Dr. Kass said. Had they owned, ''I would have put in a new kitchen already.''
And the Kasses achieved their aim: They learned how much they love living on two floors.
''This upstairs-downstairs idea is magic -- the ability to be in two different planes,'' Dr. Kass said. ''Having living space separate from sleeping space is much more peaceful.''
''You come to appreciate the stairs as part of vertical living,'' Mr. Kass said. ''I've gotten a lot better at remembering my keys before I go downstairs in the morning. You never think about that when you live in an apartment.''
Another staircase, also carpeted, leads to the front door and the sidewalk. The Kasses are becoming accustomed to taking out their trash and hauling up their groceries.
They sometimes miss the sense of community in their old building. ''I miss the doormen, I miss saying hi to everybody,'' Dr. Kass said. Still, at 6 a.m., heading out for a 12-hour shift in the emergency room, she isn't always inclined to stop for pleasantries.
The family's next move will probably be to buy a brownstone and renovate it. ''I am looking at a 20- to 25-year house,'' Dr. Kass said. ''And at that point it is not a financial decision. It is an emotional decision.''
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prospect Park West was home, but owning a co-op tied up capital.
A triplex for rent on Carroll Street was too big and too expensive.
Another triplex, on Clinton Street, was snapped up by someone else.
 Dara and Michael Kass and family love living on Third Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); FAMILY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



783 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: It's a Tangled Mess, But Not a Noose

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
RECESSIONS after financial crises are long and severe, and the subsequent recoveries are protracted. That is the bold conclusion of ''This Time Is Different,'' the book by Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, and it has become conventional wisdom.
Their title is meant to be ironic. ''This time is different'' is what policy makers always say before a bubble bursts. Yet each time, according to the authors, the results are fundamentally the same. 
But while there are strong patterns in the authors' mountains of data, this simple summary misses an important fact: There's dramatic variation in the aftermaths of crises, and much of it is caused by how policy makers respond. This history has important implications today.
Economists have long known that financial crises can devastate an economy for years. ''A Monetary History of the United States,'' by Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz, showed in agonizing detail the impact of uncontrolled banking panics in the Great Depression. And previous studies have shown that recessions that involve crises are, on average, more severe than those that don't.
The Reinhart-Rogoff study emphasizes common patterns across crises. It eschews complicated statistical techniques, relying instead on simple graphs and averages. And the averages are stunning. For 14 major crises since 1929, the associated decline in real per capita gross domestic product averaged 9.3 percent. For postwar crises, it took an average of 4.4 years for output to return to its pre-crisis level.
But study their charts more closely and you'll find that those averages mask remarkable variation. Norway had only a slight decline in per capita G.D.P. -- around 1 percent -- after its 1987 crisis, and output was back to its previous level in just three years. By contrast, real per capita G.D.P. in Argentina fell more than 20 percent in conjunction with its 2001 crisis, and took eight years to recover.
The Depression illustrates the variability vividly. Real per capita G.D.P. fell nearly 30 percent in the United States, and didn't return to its pre-crisis level for a decade. But in Spain, it fell only 9 percent in the Depression as a whole, and actually rose in the year after its 1931 banking crisis.
There was even huge variation within the United States during this period. The Friedman-Schwartz study found four distinct waves of banking panics in the early 1930s. After the first three, output plummeted. But after the last one, in early 1933, output skyrocketed, with industrial production rising nearly 60 percent from March to July. That time was very different.
What explains the variations? Crises don't happen in isolation. They're often accompanied by other factors, which differ across episodes. For example, financial crises that happen along with currency crises tend to be followed by much more severe recessions.
Likewise, some panics follow particularly big declines in house and stock prices, which have damaging effects on their own. The most recent recession would likely have been severe -- and the recovery slow -- even if the financial system hadn't been stressed, simply because of the decline in wealth and the climb in household indebtedness.
BUT an even larger determining factor is the policy response. Why was the Great Depression so much worse here than in Spain? According to an influential paper by Ehsan Choudhri and Levis Kochin, Spain benefited from not being on the gold standard. Its central bank was able to lend freely and increase the money supply after the panic. By contrast, in 1931, the Federal Reserve in the United States raised interest rates to defend its gold reserves and stay on the gold standard, setting off further declines in output and exacerbating the banking crisis.
Likewise, the policy response largely explains why output fell after the American banking panics in 1930 and 1931, but rose after the final wave in early 1933. After the first waves, the Fed did little, and President Herbert Hoover signed a big tax increase to replenish revenue. After the final wave, President Franklin D. Roosevelt abandoned the gold standard, increased the money supply and began a program of New Deal spending.
A 2009 study by the International Monetary Fund concluded that fiscal expansion can mitigate the impact of crises. But the Reinhart-Rogoff study points out that policy makers' ability to take strong fiscal action depends on whether they start with high levels of debt. In the current episode, China and South Korea have recovered faster, partly because they have taken more aggressive fiscal stimulus measures. They could do that because they entered the crisis in good fiscal health.
The response to troubles in the banking system also matters. After its banking panic in 1991, Sweden aggressively restored its banks to health. They were nationalized, recapitalized with public funds, and then returned to private control. After three rough years, Sweden grew rapidly, soon returning to its pre-crisis trend.
Japan, by contrast, put off cleaning up its banks after its 1992 crisis. For years, it allowed financial institutions to avoid realizing losses by simply rolling over loans to unproductive or failing companies. Partly as a result, it has struggled almost two decades with anemic growth and deflation. And, unlike Sweden, it is still miles from its pre-crisis trajectory.
So where does this more nuanced interpretation of the evidence leave us? First, as the extreme cases show, financial crises matter. Left uncontrolled, they can leave an economy in shambles for years. So policy makers need to make the financial system less prone to crises, and to fight panics aggressively when they arise. This is a lesson that European leaders, sitting on the edge of a financial meltdown and dithering over a solution, should keep foremost in their minds. And it's a cautionary tale for those who'd hinder worldwide attempts at stricter financial regulation.
Second, the importance of the policy response in determining the effects of crises argues strongly against complacency here at home. A country as creditworthy as the United States can continue to use fiscal stimulus to help return the economy to full employment. And, as I argued in a previous column, there's much more the Fed could be doing. Whether we continue to fester or finally embark on a robust recovery depends on whether we choose to use the tools available.
Finally, governments around the world, including our own, should remember that it helps to be in sound fiscal shape before a crisis hits. When we're all finally through the current mess, governments should rededicate themselves to fiscal responsibility. Being careful in good times gives policy makers the ability to fight crises in bad ones.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL WIENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); WRITERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); STATISTICAL METHOD (70%); BANK FAILURES (67%); CURRENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); SPAIN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



784 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION WESTCHESTER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Dutchess Joins the Dance

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
IN sharp contrast to Westchester these days, Dutchess County is awash in new home construction -- fueled mainly by young families in search of rambling colonials, large backyards and low property taxes.
Like John and Melissa Pyrch, parents of a newborn son, many who choose to buy well north of New York City are frustrated by the high cost of housing closer in.
The Pyrches work in Westchester County -- he is a firefighter and she is a high school teacher. They were willing to accept longer drives to work in exchange for a four-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath colonial on more than two acres overlooking a valley, for which they paid $700,000. As Mr. Pyrch put it, ''This way, little John can have a football field of his own.'' 
They plan to move early next year to Taconic Meadows, the most recent phase of a 62-home development by O'Donnell & Sons of Hopewell Junction, a village of East Fishkill.
Even more than the house prices, which compare very favorably with those in Westchester, ''it was the property taxes that pushed us north,'' Mr. Pyrch said. Their annual property tax bill will be about $12,000 -- far less than for a house of that size on a comparable lot in more heavily populated Westchester.
The same house on three acres in Somers, in northern Westchester, said John Gabriel, a Houlihan Lawrence specialist in new homes, would cost about $1.2 million; property taxes would run close to $22,000 a year.
The trend nationally, said Arthur C. Nelson, the director of the Metropolitan Research Center at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, is for people to move closer to the city centers, where the jobs are.
But the New York metropolitan region is anomalous, explained Mr. Nelson, an author of ''Megapolitan America,'' recently published by the American Planning Association, a nonprofit based in Washington. The region is ''probably the single most robust area in the country economically,'' he said. And the jobs aren't just in Manhattan -- alternative centers of employment have developed in Yonkers, White Plains and southern Connecticut, for example.
Mr. Gabriel, who is observing the migratory pattern north and west from his base in Houlihan's East Fishkill office, said the trend had induced his agency and others, like Better Homes and Gardens Rand Realty, to follow along, opening offices well to the north of Westchester.
In response to the argument that $700,000 houses are indeed available in many parts of Westchester, Robert Morini, a regional vice president of Houlihan Lawrence in Putnam and Dutchess Counties, said, ''But not everyone wants a home with just an eighth or a quarter of an acre.''
Also, Mr. Morini noted, many young buyers are drawn to the new construction available in Dutchess, because ''it offers a blank palette that they can decorate to their own liking, and they also don't have to worry about major maintenance items, like a new roof or furnace.''
Until recently, most developers had been forced into a holding pattern because of the dearth of financing for construction. Sean O'Donnell, president of O'Donnell & Sons, which is self-financed, said that from 2007 to 2010, builders with no access to loans and potential buyers unwilling to commit to a purchase had effectively idled the industry.
In 2010 buyers seemed to gain resolve. This year, he said, 4 of the 10 remaining houses planned for his most recent project have sold, and 4 (including the Pyrches') are under construction. That leaves two for sale.
At Liberty Ridge in East Fishkill, another new subdivision, John Goetz, an owner of Mid-Hudson Development, said his carpenters were also at work again. He is building eight four-bedroom houses on acre lots, and pricing them in the low to mid-$400,000s.
Unlike the developer of Taconic Meadows, Mid-Hudson is not self-financed. But Mr. Goetz, who has already closed on three new houses within the past three months and has a fourth under construction, said he had been able to obtain construction loans ''from local as opposed to national banks'' -- specifically from Rhinebeck Savings Bank, which is in Poughkeepsie.
As for buyers, many are also having luck obtaining mortgages from local banks. The three-year dry spell, Mr. Goetz said, seems to be drawing to a close.
He described his customers as ''young, college-educated buyers in their upper 20s to mid-30s from Westchester and New York City who are commuting to jobs in Stamford, Yonkers, White Plains and New York City, and have been watching and waiting on the sidelines for the economy to show signs of improving.''
Among the other new subdivisions in Dutchess County are Stone Ridge, with houses starting in the mid-$400,000s; Hidden Brook Estates, with houses on 20-acre sites starting at $699,000; and the Nature Preserve, with town houses from $280,000.
Christian and Christine Lomas moved into their four-bedroom home at Liberty Ridge on Thanksgiving week. Both in their mid-30s, they have two children under 6. Mr. Lomas, a chef who commutes an hour by car to his job with a Stamford corporation, leaves for work at 4:45 a.m. and returns at 6 p.m. in time to pick up his children at day care. His wife works for a health care firm in Tarrytown, a commute of slightly less than an hour each way.
They had been living in Mount Vernon, but Mr. Lomas said, ''it was the taxes that finally drove us up here.''
Unable to maneuver around the moving boxes, they had to forgo Thanksgiving in their new home. ''But not so for Christmas,'' he said. ''We're inviting the whole family, everyone, to our new home that day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNBOXING DAY: Christian and Christine Lomas with their daughter, Kaelan, 5, and son, Connor, 2, in their new home in Hopewell Junction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CITIES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); TAX LAW (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); WRITERS (62%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (57%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



785 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: Quotation of the Day

BYLINE: By RACHEL FELDSTEIN

 BODY:
I'm not necessarily convinced that they have great marketable skills. If you train someone to be a sniper, those are not necessarily skills that are transferable. RACHEL FELDSTEIN, associate director of a veterans services group in San Diego, on high unemployment among young war veterans. [20] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



786 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Remember Me From Yesterday?

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
IS the high school reunion past its prime?
There are people for whom seeing old classmates in person will never lose its appeal: sipping watered-down cocktails with the first girl they ever kissed or the first guy they smoked a cigarette with carries a nostalgic charge that status updates and digital photo albums can't replace.
But for those who always pictured their reunion as an episode of ''Where Are They Now?'' -- a chance to see who's done well, who's gone downhill and who would like to apologize -- the entire institution feels a bit deflated now that, thanks to Facebook and similar sites, nobody really has to lose touch anymore.
''Social networking has robbed us of our nostalgia,'' said Michael Fox, who attended his 20-year high school reunion in November at a bar in Larchmont, N.Y. Mr. Fox, a New Rochelle High School graduate who lives in Midtown, said he attended his reunion to see the adult version of his classmates. But he was disappointed to find there was little he didn't already know because of Facebook. 
''Even as a borderline user of social networking, I have a pretty good grasp of where people are, what they do, their family life, etc.,'' he said. ''So a lot of the mystery of the traditional reunion was missing.''
Add high school reunions to the list of cultural familiarities forever altered by our hyperconnected lifestyle. Like camping out for concert tickets and plots that hinge on missed phone calls, the classic notion of the reunion, solidified by movies like ''Peggy Sue Got Married'' and ''Romy and Michele's High School Reunion,'' is becoming as old-fashioned as oversize Benetton sweaters.
This lack of mystery has changed the feel of the event, said Donna DeFilippis, who has been organizing reunions for more than 30 years as owner and president of Reunions of America in Melville, N.Y.
''It used to be that you walked in the door totally blind, and there was such energy and excitement in the room,'' Ms. DeFilippis said. ''Today, even if you're not friends with them on Facebook, you can get a cursory look at your classmates online, so it takes that fundamental mystery away.''
Attendance and the number of reunions held have dropped in recent years, reunion organizers said. What's unclear is whether social networks or the recession is to blame.
Bari Belosa, president of Reunions Unlimited in Englishtown, N.J., said her company holds about 220 reunions annually, down from 350 a few years ago. However, there is a silver lining to the connectivity now shared by former classmates: ''We are able to find more people,'' she said.
Attending a reunion is not cheap. Tickets typically are $85 to $125, to say nothing of flights, rental cars or baby sitters. If you're struggling to make ends meet, finding reasons to skip it isn't hard.
Organizers fear attendance will keep dropping once the economy recovers since those approaching reunion age haven't lost contact with classmates. Consider Tracey Hepler, 28, who was a junior in college when Facebook made its debut and decided to skip her 10-year high school reunion.
''If you think about the Romy and Michele-type reunion, how they fantasize about people they haven't been able to talk to and want to show themselves off to people who put them down in high school, I don't have the itch to do that,'' said Ms. Hepler, who works in advertising and lives in the East Village. ''I haven't lost touch with anyone, and I see the people I want to see.''
Of course, how they feel about their reunion typically depends on how they felt about high school. Just as some people wouldn't attend their reunion if there were prize money involved, others can't imagine missing it, Facebook, MySpace or Google Plus be hanged.
''Nothing compares to putting your arms around your classmates and giving them a big hug,'' said Jordan Berman, the host of the Web show ''Career Fist,'' who helped organize the 20-year high school reunion of his class from Clarkstown South in West Nyack, N.Y., at a Doubletree hotel in November in Mahwah, N.J. Besides, ''Facebook sort of gives you a taste or one perspective of a person, but it's edited. I think it creates more curiosity. What does this person look like in person?''
For people like Mr. Berman, the familiarity bred by social networking has enhanced the experience.
Jodie Lasoff-Licata, a stay-at-home mother from Forest Hills, Queens, who attended her 20-year reunion in June, said she was able to skip the small talk with classmates ''because we're far more intimate with each other now than when we were in high school'' thanks to Facebook. ''You just get to hang out with people and have conversations.''
Several classmates greeted her at the reunion with the assurance that she looked fine in her dress; she'd written on Facebook earlier that day that her daughter said it made her look fat.
But for some, the passing familiarity provided by social networks makes things more uncomfortable. ''It was very awkward trying to reconnect with someone in this environment of forced camaraderie where you haven't seen them in 20 years, but you kind of already know about them,'' said Amy Nutig, an unemployed medical biller who lives in Queens and who called her recent reunion at the Marriott hotel in Melville ''anticlimactic.''
''Tell me exactly the circumstances of the photo you posted online,'' she said, mocking the strained conversation from the event. ''How was that restaurant you tried last week?''
And for sheer social awkwardness, it's hard to beat finally seeing those people you never liked in high school but for some reason are friends with online. Must you say hello? If Facebook sometimes feels like a party filled with people you recognize but never say hello to, the reunion can feel painfully like that party come to life.
If that lack of suspense has reduced the reunion into one more cocktail party, then the culture at large has lost something, too. The plot of many a movie and book has been fueled by the drama, anxiety and hope for redemption associated with reunions. Now it's another fictional device that audiences aren't apt to buy.
Robin Schiff, the writer and director of ''Romy and Michele,'' in which two former high school outcasts try to fabricate enviable lives for themselves before their 10-year reunion, said that her movie couldn't be made in the age of Facebook. ''It would wreck the story,'' she said.
Ms. Schiff was in New York, where she was casting a musical theater version of her 1997 movie. The new version is not being updated, she noted, partly to preserve the fun of two girls reliving the fashions and music of the late 1980s, but also to avoid having to incorporate Web culture.
But she did imagine a way it could be done. Maybe ''Romy and Michele wouldn't be on Facebook,'' she said. ''They are in their own little world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE GATHERING: Top, a toast at the Clarkstown South 20-year reunion. Clockwise from bottom left, Paul Fischer on his iPhone
Ben Reiss sends a video
 Jordan Berman in headband. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (88%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); FAMILY (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



787 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Bringing a Theater To a Beleaguered City

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
NEWBURGH, N.Y.
IT would be easy enough to forget where you are -- sipping a cocktail in the dining room at Torches on the Hudson, perhaps, gazing out the window as the setting sun glints on the surface of the river, with tickets to a show at the nearby Railroad Playhouse in your pocket. This is indeed Newburgh, though, where drugs and gang violence are galling problems for local and federal authorities and where it is not entirely paranoid to wonder if your car might be vandalized as you nurse that drink.
There are good guys around here, of course, Seth and Jen Soloway among them. Mr. Soloway, 31, is the artistic director of the Railroad Playhouse, and Ms. Soloway, 32, is its executive director. They met in graduate school at Brooklyn College, where both earned M.F.A.'s in arts management, married in the summer of 2008 and moved to Cornwall, just a few miles from Newburgh, in December 2009. Almost a year later they opened the playhouse.
Today, just past the milestone of one year in business, the Soloways are still struggling to gain traction. Opening a theater anywhere, any time is surely difficult, but to embark on the mission in a depressed area when the economy is bad is especially risky. 
The Soloways are undeterred. ''We remain positive,'' Mr. Soloway said recently. ''There's still a lot of good passion around the project.''
As the Soloways led a private tour of their playhouse on a Saturday afternoon, they outlined their objectives and obstacles. ''Our core goal is to build a traditional regional theater season,'' Mr. Soloway said. Although they have not yet produced a fully mounted production of their own, the playhouse has been busy, presenting readings, music and comedy events and acting workshops for teenagers. ''We've done a lot of presenting activities to raise money and keep the doors open,'' Mr. Soloway said.
Theater entrepreneurs in Manhattan swim upstream too, but there they can at least feel part of a shared mission in a city crammed with kindred spirits and potential audience members. Newburgh is more remote and, because it is on the west side of the Hudson, where it is not served by the Metro-North Railroad, it is not easily accessible. The train tracks behind the playhouse have carried only freight cars for decades.
The underused tracks are just one example of how much Newburgh has changed over time. Half a mile from the playhouse is the Ritz Theater, where, in 1941, Lucille Ball made her stage debut, stepping onto boards that Ella Fitzgerald, Red Skelton and Frank Sinatra had also crossed. From the late 1930s into the 1950s, the city was a thriving manufacturing center, but the 1960s brought decline. Traffic moved from the river to highways, and, as cars became ubiquitous, an Interstate highway bypassed the Newburgh waterfront, and the city suffered.
Today, the Soloways want to run a successful theater not only because they are strong advocates of new play development and arts as an educational tool, but also because they want to see Newburgh restored to its former sheen.
They are not alone in envisioning the Railroad Playhouse as a key part of this effort. ''It was a vibrant city and it was thriving,'' said Ray Yannone, a local real estate investor who also runs Storm King Building Company in nearby New Windsor. ''It is mind-boggling to me that it deteriorated this far.''
The waterfront area has been in development for several years, and businesses like Torches have helped to revive it, but there is a long way to go.
Mr. Yannone, who grew up in Newburgh, bought the old West Shore Railroad Station in 2009, when, he said, it was ''truly ready to crumble.'' With no potential tenants, it was an uncertain venture, but he renovated it nonetheless. ''To me it was so symbolic of the city,'' he said. His gamble paid off when, in early 2010, the Soloways were looking for a place to house a theater. ''When Seth and Jen came along, it seemed like it was a good marriage,'' Mr. Yannone said. ''I felt they had the ability to create something that didn't exist in Newburgh.''
Earlier this year, a small invited audience gathered one evening for a reading of ''America's Brightest Star,'' by Alex Goldberg. The play, the Soloways hope, will be the first to be fully produced at Railroad, possibly in the spring of 2012, if the money is in place (they are in the middle of a first anniversary fund-raising campaign). The play is not set in Newburgh, but is surely about a similar place. ''The town is run-down, it's depressed'' Mr. Goldberg said, recounting the plot, ''and all of a sudden it might have a potential celebrity in its midst.''
Mr. Goldberg, who is also the author of ''It Is Done,'' a site-specific thriller that recently ran at the Mean Fiddler Bar in Midtown Manhattan (where it will be remounted in January), is one of three playwrights in residence at Railroad (Ashlin Halfnight and Louise Schwarz are the others). During their three-year tenures, each writer gets a workshop and possibly the production of an existing play, and each will write a new play inspired by the city of Newburgh, thus keeping with the Soloways' desire to have a strong presence in the community.
To this end, the playhouse also holds educational programs, like Glee Camp, which gives local teenagers a chance to create plays with adult artists over the summer.
''It is part of our duty to develop not only these three playwrights but a generation of actors and stage managers and designers who can contribute to this place as, hopefully, it grows,'' Mr. Soloway said.
The first Glee Camp was not an unmitigated success: After the final performance in July, someone stole a banner hanging outside that read ''Railroad Playhouse.'' The theft was a reminder that staking a claim for the arts would be a continuing challenge here.
But the good guys -- and there are many, including business owners, artists and community organizations -- are not giving up. ''In spite of everything that's wrong, when you look around, it has to -- it's only a matter of time -- become a thriving city again,'' Mr. Yannone said. ''It's just too great of a place and too great of a location to stay like this forever.''
A new banner with a new logo now hangs outside the Railroad Playhouse, where, if the Soloways are successful, it will remain for quite some time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUSY: Jen and Seth Soloway opened the Railroad Playhouse in Newburgh. Mr. Soloway said there was ''a lot of good passion around the project.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN MORSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (88%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); VANDALISM (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); GANGS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



788 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: New England Asks: Who Has Fairest Lobster Trap Tree of All?

BYLINE: By JESS BIDGOOD

 BODY:
The tiny towns of Beals and Jonesport, Me., have completed their second annual holiday display: a conical tower of 1,364 lobster traps, 60 feet tall, built to withstand the powerful winds that come off the water. It is the towns' Christmas tree, made of wire traps plucked from the sea by lobstermen who lend them to the cause.
''It's a beautiful structure,'' said Dwight Carver, a 57-year-old lobsterman who has lived all his life on the island of Beals, opposite Jonesport on the mainland. 
Shimmering with thousands of lights and topped with an American flag and a cross made of buoys to honor a fallen fisherman, the lobster trap tree is one of many that materialize this time of year in fishing towns along New England's northern coast, a descendant of smaller trees that have long adorned lobstermen's yards and ports. Festive monuments of engineering and local pride, they celebrate the season, affirm the local economy and guarantee bragging rights for the towns.
''I think someone did one, and then someone did a bigger one,'' said David Cousins, the president of the Maine Lobstermen's Association. ''Which is usually how it goes in the lobster industry. There's a lot of competition.''
When Jonesport joined Beals to make a lobster trap tree on the island for the first time last year -- it was 56 feet tall -- Joey Ciaramitaro, a blogger from Gloucester, Mass., called it ''ridiculously disfigured'' and ''horribly disproportionate.''
Mr. Ciaramitaro said he preferred his hometown's tree, which stands about 35 feet, illuminating a plaza in the fishing city's downtown. Each year, a local arts group invites children to decorate buoys as ornaments, which are auctioned off to raise money for the group. There are 353 on the tree this year.
''I think ours has a lot more soul in it than the other trees,'' Mr. Ciaramitaro said. ''It's not just a bunch of traps all stacked up.''
Gloucester is believed to have started the tradition of the large lobster trap tree when it built its first one in 2001. Janice Lufkin Shea, who was a Gloucester shopkeeper at the time, was frustrated that Main Street had no holiday display. She saw a tiny lobster trap tree in someone's yard and thought a bigger version would be perfect for downtown.
Legend has it that when people in Rockland, Me., learned of it, they decided they had to have one, too.
''Well, we're the lobstering capital of Maine -- we should have a trap tree,'' said Lorain Francis, the executive director of Rockland Main Street Inc., which has organized the tree construction since the town first built one in 2003. Each year, the town holds a ceremony at which Santa Claus lights the tree with help from the winner of the annual Maine Lobster Festival Sea Goddess pageant.
The tree is made from red and green traps custom-built by Stephen Brooks, a third-generation trap maker. They are structurally reinforced, corresponding with a top-secret engineering plan the city uses to build a hollow, free-standing tree, 38 feet tall. ''You can put extra bracing in certain areas of the trap to help with the strength,'' Mr. Brooks said.
But that is about all the detail on the engineering of the tree that an outsider can glean. ''It's a secret that we don't like to share with everybody,'' Ms. Francis said.
Howard Mills, a Jonesport selectman known as Buddy, joked about the Rockland tree: ''We were going to call them and tell them we'd take their tree for a topping on ours.'' Still, he found that the competitive spirit had waned a bit this year -- perhaps because the trees in each town have carved their own niches: the biggest, the most complex, the artsiest.
And, for communities concerned with fish stocks and lobster prices, each tree is a rallying point.
''We like to see everyone have a good time and be happy,'' Mr. Mills said. ''Not a lot happens in Down East Maine. This is kind of a special thing for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gloucester, Mass., adorns its Christmas tree, made of lobster traps to honor its fishing tradition, with buoys decorated by children and auctioned to raise money for an arts group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



789 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Alabama's Second Thoughts

 BODY:
Alabama's stance on its extremist immigration law is shifting from defiance to damage control. Gov. Robert Bentley admitted this month that the law needed fixing and promised that he and legislative leaders would do that in next year's session. His retreat followed a letter from the state's attorney general, Luther Strange, to legislative leaders suggesting that they throw out whole sections of the law to make it easier to defend in court. 
When Mr. Bentley signed the law in June, he ignored warnings from legal experts and civil-rights advocates that it would curtail rights for all Alabamians, criminalize routine business transactions and acts of charity, encourage racial profiling, and cast an unconstitutional chill on school enrollment. The governor and legislators were also warned -- apparently not by Mr. Strange -- that the law would attract multiple lawsuits and pummel the economy, particularly farming when immigrant workers fled.
The warnings have all come true. After a visiting Mercedes-Benz manager was caught driving without his license and taken to jail as a potential illegal immigrant, Governor Bentley had to reassure foreign investors that they were still welcome. The law has created mass confusion, because nobody knows what it really requires or what parts the court might throw out at any moment. In just one example, some utilities are threatening to shut off customers without the right papers, while others, like Alabama Power, say they would not dream of doing that.
Mr. Strange's letter came after, as predicted, he spent six months trying to defend the law in court and in public. At one point he even challenged the federal government's authority to investigate civil-rights abuses committed under the law. A federal appeals court has temporarily blocked parts of the law; most recently, a judge issued a restraining order preventing Alabama from denying trailer-home licenses to people it decides are here illegally.
Now Mr. Strange is urging lawmakers to drop some major provisions, including:
The requirement that schools collect immigration data on children and parents, which he said would cost too much for the benefit it would provide.
The part making it a crime for immigrants not to carry their papers, which is illegal under federal law.
The part barring people from college if they do not have documents, because some people, like certain refugees, can be here legally without documents.
The sections that allow Alabama residents to sue officials they believe are not adequately enforcing the law, because of conflicts with the state Constitution.
Mr. Strange would leave other parts of the law intact or simply tweaked, like the one criminalizing the harboring and transporting of illegal immigrants. He only wants to clarify, not drop, the part of the law that nullifies contracts signed by undocumented immigrants.
Even if lawmakers accept Mr. Strange's proposals, it still will not undo the harm -- to the undocumented, to all Alabamians, to the state's image and economy. This law is indefensible. The only solution is repeal.
Unfortunately, too many of Alabama's politicians still don't get it. Mike Hubbard, the House speaker, vowed on Facebook, ''we're not going to repeal or weaken the law, acquiescing to liberal elites' and the news media's efforts to intimidate and shame Alabama.'' And 12 senators have written to the governor, urging him not to retreat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); RACE & RACISM (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); RACIAL PROFILING (54%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (52%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: ALABAMA POWER CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (54%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT BENTLEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



790 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Journey of a Bookworm

BYLINE: By SEAN DEVINE. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
MY dad was a Marine officer who fought in the Battle of Inchon in the Korean War. He was badly injured and awarded three Purple Hearts and the Bronze Star. I grew up hearing stories about the war and how he continued to fight while hurt. He served as an example of picking yourself up after being knocked down.
Our moves from place to place during his enlistment served as our family vacations. I remember drives across the country that lasted for days, but we broke up the trips by stopping at attractions. 
In the 1960s, I was a paperboy for The Washington Post. Every month, when it was time to collect money, I'd see some customers peeking out from behind their curtains when I knocked on the door. If they stiffed me, I had to make up the difference.
When I was in high school, an English teacher took an interest in me, which spurred my interest in the subject. He motivated me to major in English literature at St. Mary's College of California in Moraga. I was a bookworm, but was also passionate about rugby and played on the college's varsity rugby team my last two years. My senior year, we finished seventh in the nation. Some of my closest friends are teammates from those years.
I started working for the business publisher Dun & Bradstreet in the mid-1970s. In 1982, I was general sales manager for a subsidiary of the company in Buenos Aires when the Falklands War, between Britain and Argentina, broke out. My office was around the corner from the Plaza del Mayo, which is in front of the government palace. The Argentines held rallies in the plaza and the streets were tumultuous. Alexander M. Haig Jr., then the United States secretary of state, tried to mediate the crisis but wasn't successful.
At home, we got notes under our door that said, ''Yankee, go home.'' Dun & Bradstreet suggested that we go and we did, in the middle of the night, leaving all our household goods behind. I've returned many times since then, on business for Dun & Bradstreet, for pleasure, and to visit my daughter, who was a Fulbright Scholar there.
For several years, I worked for business and academic database companies, including ProQuest, where I was vice president for sales. Sales experience is invaluable. Selling is at the core of what we all do every day.
In 1998, I became senior vice president for business development at Books24x7 and helped it transition to electronic books. Electronic readers were just being developed then.
In 2000, I left to help start ibooks, an electronic book distributor ahead of its time. E-books didn't have enough traction yet, and then the dot-com bubble burst. Our investors couldn't stomach staying for the long haul and the company went out of business.
The next year I joined Safari Books Online, another provider of e-books, as C.E.O. As was the case at Books24x7, its customers are in the computer field, but they buy access to a library of books and video content instead of buying individual books. In 2007, when Safari spun off the online textbook division as CourseSmart, I moved over. Five publishers founded the new company: Pearson Education, Cengage Learning, McGraw-Hill Education, John Wiley & Sons and Macmillan. We distribute electronic textbooks for more than 30 other publishers as well.
E-textbooks save students money, and students can access them on mobile devices. We believe that e-books, e-textbooks, and e-zines are the next frontier; the market for them is blossoming. But students and faculty members will probably always have the choice of printed or e-books. While I own a Kindle and an iPad, I use them mostly for magazines and newspapers. I'm a bibliophile. Literature is art, and hard-copy books are an expression of that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SEAN DEVINE: President and C.E.O. of CourseSmart, an electronic textbook company in San Mateo, Calif. AGE: 61 HOBBIES: Scuba diving, running 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FORCE (74%); LITERATURE (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); ONLINE INFORMATION VENDORS (69%); SALES MANAGEMENT (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (67%); RUGBY (66%); PARENT COMPANIES (65%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%); BOOK & PERIODICAL WHOLESALERS (60%); PUBLISHING TRADE (60%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



791 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, December 18th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the December 18, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending December 3, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList116STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $35.) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur. 2210KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt, $28.) The heart-stopping events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 332BEING GEORGE WASHINGTON, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions/Mercury Radio Arts, $26.) How Washington turned himself into the indispensable man. 4455UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 555JACK KENNEDY, by Chris Matthews. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $27.50.) An admiring portrait. 6103CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House, $35.) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 7156THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux, $30.) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 874BACK TO WORK, by Bill Clinton. (Knopf, $23.95.) The former president argues that cooperation between the private sector and government is necessary to restore prosperity. 9139BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $25.95.) A look at some of the places hardest hit by the financial collapse of 2008. 1083THEN AGAIN, by Diane Keaton. (Random House, $26.) The actress uses her mother&#8217;s diaries as a springboard for the examination of her own life. 11*63THROW THEM ALL OUT, by Peter Schweizer. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $26.) Insider trading in Congress. 121HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson, $21.99.) A boy&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels. 1393HOW I GOT THIS WAY, by Regis Philbin. (It Books/HarperCollins, $25.99.) The recently retired co-host of &#8220;Live! With Regis and Kelly&#8217;&#8217; looks back. 14113IMPERFECT JUSTICE, by Jeff Ashton with Lisa Pulitzer. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99.) A prosecutor&#8217;s account of the Casey Anthony trial. 159JACQUELINE KENNEDY: HISTORIC CONVERSATIONS ON LIFE WITH JOHN F. KENNEDY, . (Hyperion, $60.) Recordings and transcripts of a seven-part interview with Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. in 1964.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. GABBY, by Gabrielle Giffords and Mark Kelly with Jeffrey Zaslow. (Scribner)
17. IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Archetype)
18. THE TIME OF OUR LIVES, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House)
19. THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins)
20. IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown)
21. SERIOUSLY... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central)
22. A HISTORY OF THE WORLD IN 100 OBJECTS, by Neil MacGregor. (Viking)
23. NO HIGHER HONOR, by Condoleezza Rice. (Crown)
24. THE NEW NEW RULES, by Bill Maher. (Blue Rider)
25. DESTINY OF THE REPUBLIC, by Candice Millard. (Doubleday)
26. RIN TIN TIN, by Susan Orlean. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
27. SHAQ UNCUT, by Shaquille O&#39;Neal with Jackie Macmullan. (Grand Central)
28. BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown)
29. THE GARNER FILES, by James Garner and Jon Winokur. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
30. INFERNO, by Max Hastings. (Knopf)
31. BLUE NIGHTS, by Joan Didion. (Knopf)
32. LIFE 75 YEARS, by Life Magazine Editors. (Life)
33. AN INVISIBLE THREAD, by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski. (Howard)
34. THE LOUVRE, by Erich Lessing and Vincent Pomar&#232;de. (Black Dog &#38; Leventhal)
35. THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%); INSIDER TRADING (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); GLENN BECK (51%); REGIS PHILBIN (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011



792 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 7482 words

HEADLINE: When All Else Fails . . . Fore!

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER

 BODY:
On the northern edge of Benton Harbor, just beyond the grim grid of housing projects, shuttered storefronts, boarded-up homes and junk-laden yards that dominate much of the town, sits an emerald oasis known as Harbor Shores. As the name suggests, Harbor Shores is a resort development. At its heart is a pristine Jack Nicklaus-designed golf course that meanders along a river and creek; through woods and wetlands; and, most striking, across tall, white sand dunes overlooking Lake Michigan.
The golf course was built largely on fallow, polluted land that was once crowded with factories: holes No. 4 and No. 5 were the slag pit for a company that made automobile brakes. Holes No. 14 and 15 were a former Superfund site once occupied by a company that used radium and mercury to manufacture components for fighter planes.
Metaphorically speaking, Harbor Shores is supposed to have a similarly salutary effect on the poor, overwhelmingly black town that surrounds it. No mere resort, it was envisioned by its developers as a ''single, signature project to drive economic development and bring social change to Benton Harbor,'' in the words of one promotional video. 
In late August, I played the course with a foursome of hackers that included Marcus Robinson, who helped lead the effort to build the resort. A heavy African-American man, Robinson wore khaki shorts, an orange Harbor Shores golf shirt and matching Harbor Shores straw hat. It was a sticky day, and he guzzled Gatorade as he liberated large chunks of turf that on more than one occasion outflew his ball. ''It's such a beautiful property,'' he said as he bent over to fill a large divot with grass seed. ''It's a shame to duff it up.''
Robinson is president of the Consortium for Community Development. The consortium is one of several local nonprofits partly financed by the Whirlpool Corporation, which is based in Benton Harbor, to help encourage the redevelopment of the town. He took up golf at the urging of his girlfriend two years ago, just after construction began on Harbor Shores. ''She was like, 'You don't want to be out here on opening day and have the ball go two inches in front of you at the first tee,' '' he told me. ''Of course, that's exactly what happened. On my first drive, the ball didn't even go out of the tee box.''
Robinson, who is 53, went to graduate school for hypnotherapy, the art of inducing trances to change behavioral patterns, before becoming a corporate consultant in Rochester, N.Y. He was brought to Benton Harbor by Whirlpool as a ''diversity consultant'' in early 2001. His assignment was to work with community leaders, businesspeople and other local residents to come up with ways to address some of the ever-worsening problems -- poverty, violence, white flight, racial strife -- that had been plaguing the city for years and were making it increasingly difficult for Whirlpool to attract executive talent to the area. The discussions helped birth Harbor Shores, a notion that had been kicking around a long while.
Given Benton Harbor's unfavorable history and demographics, no private developer would likely be willing to take on such an ambitious project there. But there was another way: Robinson's group, along with other nonprofits supported by Whirlpool, could secure enough federal and state grant money to help remediate the land, build the golf course and at least get Harbor Shores off the ground. The project's complicated financing deal closed in May 2008, right around the time that the national real-estate market crashed.
On the Thursday morning that we played Harbor Shores, the course looked virtually empty. The blueprints call for the 530-acre resort to include high-end hotels and shops and quaint marinas, but as of now it's basically just a golf course. The first of hundreds of planned houses are going up on cul de sacs with names like Golden Bear Court.
Robinson stopped our cart in front of one half-finished development called the Hideaways. Like all of the homes in Harbor Shores, the houses under construction here are being built in an architectural style known as Coastal Shingle. The development will have its own swimming pool, fire pit and clubhouse. A sign advertised lots priced from the $300,000s to the $600,000s. Robinson told me that 27 of the Hideaways' 58 sites have already been purchased, with the completed homes selling for as much as half a million dollars.
Watching carpenters hammer preweathered wood shingles onto homes that wouldn't look out of place in East Hampton, Long Island, I felt almost as if I were at a resort in a third-world Caribbean country: beyond the boundaries of Harbor Shores is the poorest city in all of Michigan.
The contrast is deliberate, part of a strategy of social engineering that's central to the plan to save Benton Harbor. ''The intermingling that shifts a culture, makes it more upwardly mobile and creates more striving-type sensibilities naturally occurs when you bring people of different races and classes together,'' Robinson said as we rode off toward the next tee. ''It creates a mentality of inclusion.''
A few holes later, as Robinson vainly poked a 6-iron around in some tall grass beside the fairway looking for one of his balls, he conjured a vision of Benton Harbor's future. ''This could be a model for African-American towns,'' he told me. ''I want to see this turned into a great place to live, work and play and have it be predominantly black. A great place to play golf, go to the beach, with great schools, a place that turns out scholars, athletes and artists. A place that's banging, as they say.''
During its heyday as a racially mixed, economically vibrant manufacturing center through the 1960s, Benton Harbor grew into a home to more than 20,000 people. Today its population is closer to 10,000, about 90 percent of whom are black. The per capita income of its residents is roughly $10,000; about 60 percent of its population is on some form of public assistance.
The scale of poverty in Benton Harbor is extreme, but in a general sense, the town's woes are hardly unique for Michigan, which has been especially hard hit by the disappearance of manufacturing jobs in America. The state's decline has been slow and steady. In the 1950s, its per capita income was 13 percent above the national average; today, it's 7 percent below it. Michigan is the only state whose population has decreased since 2000. With the nation in the midst of a historic joblessness crisis that has left a record number of Americans living below the poverty line, only Nevada and California have higher rates of unemployment.
All over Michigan, counties are scrambling to find ways to reinvent their outdated economies. Two recurring themes in this effort have been attracting tourism and retaining corporations. Michigan's Republican governor, Rick Snyder, a former venture capitalist, recently signed an overhaul of the state tax code that cuts business taxes by $1.7 billion, while committing $25 million to the ''Pure Michigan'' advertising campaign, which features local celebrities like Tim Allen urging people to visit the state.
In this context, the goings-on in Benton Harbor make a certain kind of sense -- not just Harbor Shores, which was intended to lure weekenders from Chicago, roughly two hours away by car, but the other major construction project under way in town: a new, heavily tax-incentivized, $68 million, 270,000-square-foot corporate campus for Whirlpool.
The juxtaposition of Benton Harbor's impoverished population and its two rising monuments to wealth -- all wedged into a little more than four square miles -- make it almost a caricature of economic disparity in America. But at the same time, it offers a window into one possible future for towns across the country, places that can no longer support their own economies or take care of their citizens and may ultimately have no choice but to turn their fate over to private industry and nonprofits. The way things are going, more and more states may start to look like Michigan, and more and more towns may start to look like Benton Harbor.
Benton Harbor's City Hall, a sturdy-looking, red-brick structure on the fringe of its small downtown, was built by the federal government as part of a wave of public-works projects underwritten by the New Deal to help lift the country out of the Depression. A dedication plaque dated 1937 still hangs in the building's small, sour-smelling lobby, surrounded by mundane symbols of the city's decline: an ''Out of Order'' sign taped to a water fountain, an empty job-postings board, a case containing municipal-sports-league trophies, several of whose figurines are missing limbs.
I was greeted there one morning by the man who now runs Benton Harbor, a 67-year-old African-American man with a salt-and-pepper mustache named Joseph Harris. ''Life is beautiful, isn't it?'' Harris said, smiling widely as he led me up the stairs to an empty office that he had just repossessed from the mayor.
Harris is Benton Harbor's ''emergency manager.'' He was first sent to the town in April 2010 under a law that provided the state with limited authority to intervene in the financial affairs of failing cities. His power grew exponentially last spring when Governor Snyder and the state's Republican Legislature passed Public Act 4, which allows emergency managers to renegotiate or terminate contracts, change collective-bargaining agreements, even dissolve local governments (subject to the governor's approval). They have almost unfettered control over their respective cities. This approach to governing is still in its infancy, but if it proves successful in Benton Harbor and elsewhere, emergency managers could be dispatched to troubled municipalities across the state. Snyder has even made it clear that Detroit is a strong candidate for takeover.
There are emergency managers now ensconced in four cities and one school district in Michigan. All have taken some aggressive measures, but none have made as public an impact as Harris. He has fired numerous city administrators and employees and merged Benton Harbor's police and fire departments. He didn't just kick the mayor and city commissioners out of their offices; he also issued a directive prohibiting them from doing anything other than call meetings to order, record their minutes and adjourn them.
Benton Harbor has since become an unlikely cause for Rachel Maddow, who has railed repeatedly against the state's seizure of the town -- ''Ground Zero for American politics,'' as she calls it. The Rev. Jesse Jackson has taken up the cause, too, comparing Benton Harbor to Selma, circa 1965, because of the disenfranchisement of its largely black electorate. Stephen Colbert, for his part, offered a mock tribute to Harris: ''I say good for him, because the people of Benton Harbor brought this on themselves. . . . Benton Harbor's elected officials are incompetent, therefore, by electing them, the voters are incompetent. So they should lose their democracy.''
If all of this sounds like yet more negative attention for Benton Harbor, Harris, the former chief financial officer for the city of Detroit, doesn't seem the least bit bothered by it. Blissfully free of the checks and balances of democratic governments, he is living the dream of every frustrated city administrator. ''I believed I could fix Detroit,'' Harris told me. ''But almost every time I made a recommendation to the mayor, politics got in the way. Here, I don't have to worry about whether the politicians or union leaders like what I'm doing. I have to worry about whether it's the right thing to do. That's the only thing that should matter. I love this job.''
Having neutered the city's elected officials (''I am the mayor and the commission, and I don't need them''), fired the city's finance director (''I'd been told she was incompetent, but she really didn't have a clue'') and city manager (''He was smart and articulate, but he just wasn't doing anything that I couldn't do''), Harris, a former accounting professor, is pretty much single-handedly running Benton Harbor. Small, balding and relentlessly upbeat, he balances the books, negotiates the contracts and cheerfully presides over sparsely attended Town Hall meetings, rolling out his latest cost-saving measures, his reading glasses invariably dangling around his neck. Over the summer, I saw him introduce Benton Harbor's new ''quick response vehicles'' -- essentially pickup trucks outfitted with fire-retardant-foam-releasing contraptions that require a lot less money and manpower to operate than traditional fire trucks.
After we talked for a while, Harris and I walked out for lunch. He was eager to show me around the Arts District, a quaint, upscale enclave several blocks from City Hall where he is renting a loft apartment in a converted warehouse. ''You can't fully appreciate what's going on here until you look around,'' he said as we crossed over into the neighborhood from Benton Harbor's bleak downtown.
The contrast was stark. The streets and sidewalks were freshly paved and lined with trees, planters and retro lampposts, courtesy of $2.3 million in grant money and donations. The Arts District, which encompasses just a few blocks, abuts Harbor Shores; the city's master plan, partly underwritten by Whirlpool a couple of years ago, calls for the two to eventually be connected via a series of footpaths.
After lunch in a crowded cafe, Harris bought a cup of vanilla-bean gelato to eat as he led me through some artists' studios, prodding a jewelry maker to tell me about the revival of the neighborhood.
We left the Arts District, and City Hall came back into view, a state-subsidized high-rise -- Harbor Towers -- looming behind it. Poking his finger into a new planter to make sure it had been watered, Harris told me excitedly about his latest brainstorm: ''I Benton Harbor'' souvenirs, including T-shirts, bumper stickers and shot glasses. The idea, he explained, is to take advantage of Benton Harbor's unflattering appearances on Rachel Maddow's show and ''The Colbert Report'' -- ''to make lemonade out of lemons,'' as he put it. ''We have, as you know, some national notoriety now,'' Harris said. ''I want to take that notoriety and build on it. I want people to walk away from Benton Harbor saying, 'I've been to Benton Harbor.' ''
The merger of Benton Harbor's police, building inspection and fire departments resulted in the creation of a single Department of Public Safety run by the city's chief of police, Roger Lange. When I first met Lange, a big, barrel-chested man, he was speaking at one of Harris's Town Hall meetings, assuring residents that their safety would not be compromised by the cost-saving measures being undertaken. ''Benton Harbor is going to come back,'' he told the small crowd. ''We are coming back. Failure is not an option.''
Later that night, I rode around with Lange as he patrolled the city in a black Dodge Durango. He picked me up just after dark in front of City Hall, and we headed straight into Benton Harbor's decaying residential neighborhoods. ''I normally like to start by visiting one of our more problematic areas,'' Lange said, pulling up in front of an abandoned wood-frame house at the intersection of a liquor-store parking lot and a narrow residential street. Before he had even slowed to a stop, the group of young men who were hanging out on the stoop spotted him and were scattering.
In many ways, Benton Harbor is a miniature version of Detroit, albeit one improbably located along a corridor of bucolic and generally much more affluent lakefront towns. It boomed during World War II, when local plants were transformed into F.D.R.'s so-called arsenal of democracy. (Whirlpool's factories manufactured components for fighter planes.)
As was the case with Detroit, the job opportunities made Benton Harbor a popular destination for blacks coming north as part of what would become known as the Great Migration. For many years, the town was informally segregated, with most blacks crowding into an area of ramshackle homes known as the Flats. In the 1960s and '70s, the jobs started disappearing, and the white flight to neighboring towns began, accelerated by the razing of the Flats, which drove many black residents into formerly white neighborhoods. By 1980, Benton Harbor was overwhelmingly black and poor, with a steadily rising crime rate. And that was before crack. Situated between Chicago and Detroit, Benton Harbor became a hub for the Midwest crack trade beginning in the mid-1980s.
During the 1990s, Benton Harbor was one of the most violent places in the state. Crime rates have ebbed and flowed since then. At least in terms of murders and assaults, the past year and a half has been relatively quiet, though break-ins have been on the rise lately. Harris's budget cuts have cost Lange about a third of his full-time officers, reducing the total number to fewer than 20, though he has been able to replace them with nearly a dozen part-timers. (All of the city's remaining full-time police officers are being cross-trained as firefighters.) The fire chief of the neighboring town of St. Joseph, whose population is a little bit smaller than Benton Harbor's, recently expressed concern about the rising number of calls his men have had to make to the town to assist its firefighters.
Lange grew up in Benton Harbor. He worked a variety of jobs before deciding to become a police officer in his early 30s, when, he says, his ex-wife disappeared with their son and he spent eight months tracking them down in California. ''After that investigation, I thought, You know, I think I can do this,'' he told me.
After starting as a patrolman in Benton Harbor, Lange spent most of his career in the county sheriff's office. He returned to Benton Harbor's police force a couple of years ago after a corruption scandal further damaged the already fragile relationship between the town's largely black population and its largely white police department. Two local police officers were ultimately sent to jail, including the head of the narcotics unit, for violating the civil rights of the town's inhabitants by falsifying search warrants, stealing money and property from residents and embezzling from the department.
Benton Harbor's recent success at curtailing violent crime is partly a tribute to Lange, who leaves the station at 8 o'clock every night after a full day of administrative work to patrol the streets until 2 or 3 in the morning with his deputy director, Robert O'Brien. He is basically carrying out his own version of the ''broken windows'' approach to policing, enforcing previously overlooked laws against quality-of-life crimes like loitering, gambling and public urination.
Over the course of the night, Lange circled the various hotspots -- parks, parking lots, stoops -- where people tend to collect to play dice or buy and sell drugs (generally crack, heroin or cocaine) and dispersed the gathering crowds. ''I've found that this has cut down on a lot of the violent crime,'' he told me. ''When people gamble, they're going to get mad.'' He stopped frequently to move small children out of the streets and back into their homes: ''How you doin'? Where's your parents?''
It was a hot night, and scores of teenage boys -- because of Benton Harbor's high teenage-pregnancy rate, more than 35 percent of its population is under 18 -- were riding around shirtless on bikes. (Nonprofits donate secondhand bikes to the city by the dozens.) ''This house right here has caught fire twice now and was just condemned,'' Lange said, pointing at the burned-out shell of a home, one of more than 100 houses and possibly an old hospital slated to be demolished with grant money from HUD.
Benton Harbor's cityscape shifts from detached homes in serious disrepair -- in some cases, all of the siding has been ripped off; in others, there are no windows, just bedsheets covering empty holes -- to every sort of federally financed housing project imaginable, from high-rise towers to scatter-site homes to barracks-style apartment complexes. Failed attempts at urban renewal are everywhere, often to darkly comic effect. A sign in an empty, overgrown lot reads: ''Project Funded by American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.'' A new, HUD-subsidized housing development called Harbor Town -- ''The Future of Benton Harbor,'' says a sign advertising property-tax-free lots for $7,500 -- is a vast, empty site save for three side-by-side homes. There has been a strong push to encourage homeownership in Benton Harbor, an effort that has included generous grants from both the Michigan State Housing Development Authority and HUD, and a Habitat for Humanity building blitz supported by Jimmy Carter. Nevertheless, nearly 70 percent of its population are renters.
For the first couple of hours of Lange's patrol, the grimness of the surroundings seemed endless. But as the night wore on, the streets started to become familiar. Unlike many areas of Detroit, where the decay spreads out for mile after mile across a sprawling metropolis, in Benton Harbor it's relatively small and self-contained. A lot of grant money has always poured into Benton Harbor, and this is no doubt one of the reasons. Its small size makes its big-city problems seem somehow solvable. ''Everybody thinks they know what to do with Benton Harbor, but not even anyone here knows what to do with Benton Harbor,'' a veteran teacher at Benton Harbor High School told me.
Lange seemed at times like a small-town cop, an African-American Andy Griffith in a Mayberry turned upside-down. At one point, he bantered in a liquor-store parking lot with a local man he called Bulldog.
''Man, give me $2 for a drink,'' Bulldog said.
''Bulldog,'' Lange replied, ''why would I support what I'm trying to get you out of?''
''I'm trying to keep your paperwork down, because if I don't get that $2 I'm gonna go back to breaking into houses,'' Bulldog said.
''You know what, Bulldog? If you break into houses, I'm gonna arrest you.''
''You're not going to catch me. I'm a professional. I can get in there with a credit card -- my food stamp card, as a matter of fact,'' Bulldog said.
''Then I'll make sure you lose your food stamps and lose your freedom,'' Lange said.
Benton Harbor's problems begin and end with the city's chronic joblessness, which has not only crushed the spirit of generations of residents but also destroyed the town's tax base. Delinquency is also a major issue in Benton Harbor: at least 20 percent of its residents can't, or don't, pay their city bills. Harris recently combined the town's trash and water bills in the hope that residents will pay their garbage bills to avoid having their water shut off.
Making matters worse, two of the town's key income sources are drying up. A state revenue-sharing program dating back to the 1930s is being decimated by ongoing state budget cuts, while a neighboring town that has long purchased its water from Benton Harbor -- accounting for half of its water revenues -- just finished building its own water-treatment facility. To offset the loss of at least some of these revenues, Harris is planning to raise water rates as much as 40 percent for Benton Harbor residents.
But the erosion of Benton Harbor's underlying finances has been accompanied by a history of almost farcical mismanagement. Between 2000 and 2010, no fewer than five city administrators filed whistleblower lawsuits against the city, claiming that they had lost their jobs after raising questions about how the elected officials were running the government. Most were settled out of court, costing the city -- or its insurers, anyway -- a total of more than $2 million.
The latest plaintiff was Richard Marsh, Benton Harbor's city manager from March 2008 to September 2009, who claimed that the city commission had declined to renew his contract after he went public with the findings of an independent internal audit and requested an F.B.I. investigation of the government's management of the city. Marsh settled with Benton Harbor for $192,000, but the state subsequently sent its own financial review team to the town, which in turn led to Harris's appointment in April 2010.
That the town's finances were a mess when he arrived is beyond dispute. Benton Harbor was incurring overdraft fees of as much as $100,000 a year. It owed the Internal Revenue Service $678,000 in back taxes and HUD more than $1 million for a loan that had been distributed to three local businesses, all of which had gone bankrupt, leaving the city on the hook for the money.
Harris has paid off the I.R.S. and set up a payment plan with HUD, while cutting Benton Harbor's annual expenses from $8 million to $6 million through a combination of layoffs, new contracts with the police and fire unions and the outsourcing of city services. Broadly speaking, his approach was ripped right from the pages of the conservative playbook: shrink the government and clear the path for private development. One of the first moves Harris made when the state enhanced his powers last spring was to reconfigure the city's planning commission and the Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, which oversee the development of the town. ''The city government has got to provide essential services -- clean the streets, keep the public safe,'' he says. ''But if we provide the essential services, and maybe fix up the streets, guess what, more revenue will come in because of the golf course and Whirlpool's headquarters. Developers are going to come.''
One hundred years ago, an insurance salesman named Lou Upton took the blueprints for a manually operated washing machine to an uncle in Benton Harbor, who quickly figured out how to electrify it. The Upton Machine Company was soon supplying the first washing machines with ''motorized agitation'' to Sears, Roebuck & Company. Before long, this small family business would become the Whirlpool Corporation, the world's largest producer of major home appliances.
For decades, Whirlpool did much of its manufacturing in Benton Harbor, but in the 1980s, it started closing its factories in the city to cut labor costs. The company shut down its last assembly plant in Benton Harbor in 1987. It still has some 4,000 employees in the area, but they are predominantly ''knowledge workers'' -- executives, engineers, analysts.
In a sense, it's surprising that Whirlpool hasn't relocated these employees too. The closest international airports are in Grand Rapids and Chicago, both more than 80 miles away. (There is an old commuter airport in Benton Harbor, closed to commercial traffic for years, that can accommodate Whirlpool's corporate jets.) Then there's the problem of Benton Harbor itself. There can't be too many major international corporations building $68 million campuses across the street from the site of a recently condemned and demolished low-rent motel.
Whirlpool says it is deeply committed to Benton Harbor. ''We're part of the community,'' Jeffrey Noel, Whirlpool's vice president for corporate communications, told me. ''You can't go to a school-board meeting, or a not-for-profit meeting, or a local Little League game where you don't see Whirlpool employees volunteering.''
Whirlpool's logo is affixed to signs all over Benton Harbor, from the Habitat for Humanity homes that its employees helped build to the construction site for a new Benton Harbor Boys and Girls Club that has received several hundred thousand dollars from the Whirlpool Foundation. Benton Harbor's public school system has also been the beneficiary of Whirlpool largess. The Whirlpool Foundation and the foundations of two of the company's former chief executives, including the Upton Foundation, have donated more than $1.5 million this year toward reforming the city's schools, which are among the lowest-achieving in the state. ''The goal is over 10 years to make this one of the premier school districts in the region,'' Marcus Robinson of the Consortium for Community Development told me.
According to Noel, who also serves as the president of Harbor Shores Community Redevelopment, this is all part of a unified strategy to increase Benton Harbor's ability to attract employers, tourists and new homeowners. Shortly before starting construction on the golf course, Harbor Shores issued a report detailing some of its proposals for bringing change to Benton Harbor. They included a free 10-week course, ''Bridges Out of Poverty,'' designed to prepare residents culturally to join the middle class. ''Moving out of the culture of poverty requires more than an increase in financial means . . . and accepting achievement as the driving force in one's life,'' the course description read. ''It will require one to learn and use middle-class language and behaviors.''
Of course, golf is integral to the plan. A national golf program for underprivileged youth will have a state-of-the-art training facility at Harbor Shores, and the high-school golf team is using Harbor Shores as its home course. (A member of the girls' team hit one of the first holes-in-one there.) Harbor Shores will also host the 2012 and 2014 Senior P.G.A. Tour Championships, which are expected to bring 10,000 to 15,000 visitors a day to Benton Harbor. ''Hopefully, when they get off the course, they'll come over here and party with us,'' a real-estate agent who sells Harbor Shores homes told me one afternoon in the Arts District.
The narrative of the redevelopment of Benton Harbor has been distilled into a multimedia exhibit in a sleek, modern-looking office on Main Street called the Transformation Center. There's a scale model of Harbor Shores and photographs of a happy, diverse community in full bloom. A promotional video tells the story of Benton Harbor's rebirth. ''Leaving poverty behind, that's what we're going to do,'' the narration concludes.
There's no question that a transformation is under way in Benton Harbor. The city's downtown may still be deserted, but the Arts District isn't. At night, you can invariably find a large crowd gathered at the Livery, a microbrewery in a former stable.
''When we moved here, this area was a dump,'' one of the Livery's owners, Leslie Pickell, told me one evening at the bar. Along with two other friends, Pickell, who is 50, and her significant other, Michael Gardner -- the two met at a Grateful Dead concert in California in the early 1990s -- bought the vacant building for $25,000 in 2003. They closed on the property two weeks before Benton Harbor broke out into race riots (locals prefer the term ''civil disturbance''). The microbrewery opened in August 2005, and business has grown steadily ever since.
It's hard not to admire Pickell's pioneering spirit. But it's also hard not to wonder what the transformation of Benton Harbor will mean for the vast majority of the town's population. You don't see many black faces in the Arts District, and apart from high-school golfers, how many locals are going to be turning up at Harbor Shores -- even with the discounted greens fees of $40 available to town residents who are up to date on their city bills?
Marcus Muhammad is a basketball legend in Benton Harbor. As a student at the high school in the early 1990s, he led his team to two straight appearances in the Michigan state finals. Photographs of him still line the wall outside the school gym, along with those of other local basketball greats, including Wilson Chandler, who played last year in the N.B.A.
Then known as Marcus Singer, Muhammad set the career 3-point scoring record at DePaul University and might have played professionally had his interest in basketball not been overtaken by his growing involvement with the Nation of Islam. After graduating from DePaul, he changed his last name and took a job teaching at the Nation of Islam's school in Chicago.
Muhammad was drawn back to Benton Harbor in 2003, in the wake of the crack epidemic. ''It was like a hurricane had blown through here,'' he told me. ''I could see the carnage, economically, politically, socially.''
Muhammad works as a counselor at the high school and coaches the varsity basketball team, which gives him the local stature of a high-school football coach in Texas. He is also one of the town's nine city commissioners. At 6-foot-6, with the muscular build of an elite athlete, he cuts an unmistakable figure in Benton Harbor. He is always carrying a book -- I saw him with a Bobby Fischer biography on one occasion and Robert A. Caro's ''Power Broker'' on another -- and dresses in French-cuffed shirts, three-piece suits and ties.
Inside his office at the high school, where a GQ magazine cover of President Obama is prominently displayed, I asked Muhammad what he thought about Harbor Shores. ''You're rebuilding and redeveloping Benton Harbor, but toward what end, what's the aim?'' he replied. ''They're going to have to show us that their ultimate goal isn't gentrification.''
This is the competing narrative of what's going on in Benton Harbor: It's being converted into a resort town for wealthy weekenders and Whirlpool employees -- that, when all is said and done, its struggling black population will either be driven out by the development or reduced to low-wage jobs cleaning hotel rooms, carrying golf bags or cutting grass.
According to this counternarrative, Whirlpool decided years ago to re-engineer the town for its own purposes and has since used a variety of local nonprofits to purchase land from the cash-starved city and to tap into the stream of federal and state grant money that flows into Benton Harbor. By this telling, the state was complicit in the plot, taking over Benton Harbor in what Muhammad calls ''a coup d'etat'' not because of its financial condition -- there are plenty of nearly broke towns in Michigan -- but to ensure that Harbor Shores would proceed without any interference from the local government. ''This was not a one-night stand,'' Muhammad told me, referring to the takeover and redevelopment of Benton Harbor. ''It was orchestrated, methodical.''
Hearing Muhammad and others in Benton Harbor who share his point of view, it's easy to feel as if you're in the presence of conspiracy theorists. Still, there's no doubt that the state, which put millions into Harbor Shores and is providing Whirlpool with as much as $19 million in tax credits to build its new campus on a brownfield site, has a lot invested in the redevelopment of Benton Harbor. In this sense at least, Benton Harbor is by no means just another struggling Michigan town.
To skeptics of the redevelopment of Benton Harbor, Whirlpool looks less like a good corporate citizen than another company manipulating the system, leveraging its power to maximize its tax breaks and taking advantage of the town's access to federal and state grant money. (It's worth noting that Whirlpool hasn't paid any federal corporate income taxes in the United States for the last three years, partly, the company says, because of losses due to the recession.)
More to the point, imagine that you live in a city where generations of residents have struggled to find work, a city that has stubbornly resisted decades worth of attempts to reverse its fortunes. Then imagine being told, without a hint of irony, that the answer to your problems is a $500 million, high-end golf resort. Oh, and also, an unelected state appointee will be running your city until further notice.
Between the almost-delusional optimism of those who support the redevelopment of Benton Harbor and the almost-paranoid mistrust of those who don't, spending time in the town can be a profoundly disorienting experience. If there is a single symbol of these colliding perspectives, a Benton Harbor Rorschach test, it's holes 7 though 9 of Harbor Shores, which stretch out across the dunes overlooking Lake Michigan. They were built on the edge of 22 acres of a public beachfront park that Benton Harbor's cash-strapped government agreed to lease to Harbor Shores for 105 years starting at $35,000 a year. Depending on your point of view, they represent either the constructive repurposing of a poorly maintained, underutilized stretch of lakefront property, or an unconscionable violation of the public trust.
One of the biggest challenges facing Benton Harbor is the city's staggering level of political disengagement, which has made it almost impossible to know what residents want from their representatives. In last month's citywide election, only about 1,400 of Benton Harbor's citizens voted; in 2009, the turnout was less than half that. Democracy has now officially been suspended in Benton Harbor; unofficially, it was suspended years ago.
Benton Harbor's elected city commissioners are unpaid. (The state's emergency-manager act eliminated what had been a largely symbolic salary.) Most of them have full-time jobs and don't spend much time in City Hall. The exception is Commissioner Dennis Knowles. Gaunt, manic and missing several teeth, Knowles, who is unemployed, can invariably be found behind an old desktop computer in a narrow, musty office in City Hall scrutinizing Harris's actions.
Knowles is commissioner of Benton Harbor's Fourth Ward, which, in addition to Harbor Shores, encompasses some of the town's poorest streets. He was elected in 2009 with 84 votes. ''This is a side note, but he sleeps in the building,'' Harris told me one morning last summer at City Hall. ''We have cameras so we can tell the times of day when he goes out to use the restroom.''
Harris now says Knowles no longer sleeps at City Hall. Knowles insists he never did: ''What Joe Harris saw was a very dedicated commissioner who works very late hours in the building and still does.''
To defenders of Michigan's takeover of Benton Harbor, like the Republican state representative Al Pscholka, Knowles is Exhibit A for the case for intervention. ''He got his friends down at the soup kitchen, took them to the polls and told them to vote,'' Pscholka, a sponsor of the state's emergency-manager legislation, told me one morning in Benton Harbor. ''It was like play government over there,'' he said, referring to the town's City Hall.
Knowles, who participated in an unsuccessful campaign to recall Pscholka, vehemently disputes this characterization and points out that the soup kitchen he sometimes eats in isn't even in his ward.
Though he has been stripped of official authority, Knowles still hosts a weekly radio broadcast from a studio in the basement of City Hall on which he addresses issues of concern to local residents, like how to deal with a new state law that limits lifetime welfare benefits to four years: ''You may also want to get into growing your own food, because it's going to get to that point. . . . What you thought might have been forever is now gone, kaput, finished.''
Knowles also uses the show to criticize the redevelopment of Benton Harbor. ''You see development going on all around you, with no opportunities. You see what's going on with the Harbor Shores program or project. . . . You see development of housing. You see all of these constructs, the Whirlpool campus,'' he said on a recent broadcast. ''I've heard some of you say, 'We're gonna leave Benton Harbor.' But where do you go, anywhere in America, where you won't run into the same problem, when you're poor anywhere you go?''
When I met Knowles inside City Hall over the summer, he was wearing an old T-shirt and a pair of soiled, torn jeans. He turned on his own recorder to tape our conversation and then proceeded to lay out some of his problems with how Harris was spending the city's money. He expressed concern that Harris is prioritizing demolition and new construction, which he said will leave a lot of residents with no place to live.
As we spoke, Knowles printed out a stack of documents to show me. One was a new form that aspiring businesses need to fill out to get a license to operate in Benton Harbor. Knowles underlined a sentence stating that no one who has been convicted of a felony will be granted a license, which he said would disqualify a lot of the town's residents.
After we'd talked for a while, we got in my rental car and went for a drive around his ward. ''It's beautiful, but it's not for us,'' Knowles said, as we rode through Harbor Shores. ''It's not for poor people.'' I had asked Knowles if he slept at City Hall, and he took me by his house, which he said he rents for about $250 a month. ''I don't sell dope,'' he volunteered, explaining how he pays his rent. ''I come out and hustle -- electrical jobs, cutting grass, whatever.'' On our way back to City Hall, we passed the Transformation Center -- ''a con job,'' Knowles called it.
When I dropped him back at City Hall, Knowles got out of the car and said goodbye, then poked his head back in the passenger window. ''Hey,'' he said, ''can you spare a couple of bucks so I can get myself a bag of chips and a pop?''
Harris doesn't know how much longer he's going to be in Benton Harbor. The state can't be eager for him to leave and restore the city's democratically elected government to power, particularly with professional golf coming to Harbor Shores this spring. ''It's a risk for the P.G.A. to put the tournament here,'' Harris told me. ''The commission could very easily sabotage things and with no regrets.''
But Harris says he has already accomplished much of what he was charged with doing in Benton Harbor. And there's no guarantee that the emergency-manager legislation will survive much longer: there's a signature-collection effort to force its repeal as well as a lawsuit before the state Supreme Court arguing that it's unconstitutional.
In the short term, Harbor Shores could be a tough sell to developers. Plans for a water park have already been jettisoned, and no hoteliers have expressed sufficient interest to build there yet.
Long-term, though, Benton Harbor's future as a tourist town seems foreordained. Harbor Shores is well under way, and in any case, what are the city's other options?
In between Harbor Shores' champions and detractors are a lot of people who question the wisdom of pinning the town's hopes on a golf course but who acknowledge that something is better than nothing.
Harbor Shores is not without precedent. Recently, a golf course helped revive a troubled neighborhood in Atlanta known as East Lake. But at this point, it seems more likely that Harbor Shores will simply bring a new population to Benton Harbor and hasten the town's fracturing into two distinct communities: the second-home owners and Whirlpool executives who live inside Harbor Shores and frequent the Arts District -- and everyone else.
The question is, can ''everyone else'' include a stable, working-class population, or is Benton Harbor beyond repair?
On my last night in town, Lange invited me to ride along with him again. The county sheriff's office was going to be executing a federal search warrant inside Benton Harbor's city limits, and Lange and one of the town's on-duty officers would be on hand for it.
At around 11 o'clock, we went to the county sheriff's office for a briefing. Photographs of the subject, a suspected crack dealer, and his house were passed among the 10 officers who would be carrying out the search. The lieutenant gave everyone instructions and the convoy of vehicles set off. As we rounded the corner onto the subject's quiet, residential street, all of the cars shut off their lights so as not to attract attention.
The subject was sitting on his stoop. He turned and ran into his house when he saw the cars approaching. A few officers were right behind him. They knocked down the front door with a battering ram, secured the house and began to search its rooms.
The various vehicles sat idling out front, their headlights illuminating the area. Lange and a few of the other officers stood talking, straining to hear one another over the high-pitched whine coming from under the hood of the Benton Harbor squad car.
''That's not good,'' Lange said.
''It's been like that for a month,'' the Benton Harbor officer replied. ''I think it's the alternator.''
A few minutes later, the engine's squeals still echoing through the otherwise quiet street, Lange turned back to the officer. ''You'd better shut that thing off,'' he said.
''I would,'' the officer replied, ''but I'm afraid I won't be able to start it up again.''
Correction: December 18, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 36 this weekend about Benton Harbor, Mich., misstates the title of an official in a neighboring city and refers imprecisely to the concern he expressed about the rising number of Benton Harbor's requests for help from his department. The official, who was not quoted by name, is the fire chief of St. Joseph, not the police chief, and Benton Harbor has been requesting help for its firefighters, not for its police force.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Benton Harbor of the present. (MM36)
Harbor Shores -- one vision of Benton Harbor's future (MM37)
The Consultant: Marcus Robinson, president of the Consortium for Community Development. (MM39)
The Law: Roger Lange, chief of the combined fire and police departments. (MM40)
The Street: A view from an abandoned property in Benton Harbor. (MM41)
The Overseer: Joseph Harris, appointed as ''emergency manager'' by the governor. (MM42)
 The Skeptic: Marcus Muhammad, a community leader, at a town-hall meeting. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK PETERSON/REDUX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); LAKES (72%); SUPERFUND (70%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); WETLANDS (56%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (81%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011



793 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Protests and Solutions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Know What You're Protesting'' (Economic View, Dec. 4), N. Gregory Mankiw repeats the often-heard complaint that many Occupy protesters -- and, in his case, students who walked out of his own course -- have ''no clear policy prescriptions'' for our current economic mess. 
But why should students in an introductory economics class, or others without economic training, be the ones to come up with solutions? The purpose of the protests is to keep the problem in the public limelight and, it is hoped, force elected officials to do something about it rather than just kick the can down the road and take political postures.
Solutions exist, but part of the problem is that we are dealing with conflicting economic theories that have been taken to extreme positions by both sides. Until Washington relearns the art of compromise, this mess will continue. Charles Repka
East Windsor, N.J., Dec. 5
To the Editor:
In the column, N. Gregory Mankiw makes this statement: ''I don't view the study of economics as laden with ideology.'' He then goes on to say that ''the recent financial crisis, economic downturn and meager recovery are vivid reminders that we still have much to learn.''
He seems not to understand that economists aren't really objective and dispassionate scientists. Economics is merely a set of tools with which we build the kind of society we want to live in. Defining what that means is, of course, an ideological proposition, and thus all economic ''theory'' is freighted with ideological baggage.
And by treating the current economic crisis as a teachable moment, not as a result of very specific economic policies, the column pooh-poohs anyone who would hold economic ideas accountable for the mess we are in.
Indeed, to judge by the economic policies being promoted by Mitt Romney, whom Mr. Mankiw serves as an adviser, neither Mr. Romney nor Mr. Mankiw has learned anything about what caused our economy to fall off the cliff in 2007. Steven Conn
Yellow Springs, Ohio, Dec. 4
The writer is a history professor at Ohio State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



794 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Iraq, a War Obama Didn't Want, Shaped His Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama has made good on his campaign pledge to end the Iraq war, portraying the departure of the last troops as a chance to turn to nation-building at home.
But from Afghanistan to the Arab Spring, from China to counterterrorism, the lessons of that war still hang over the administration's foreign policy -- shaping, and sometimes limiting, how the president projects American power in the world.
The war that Mr. Obama never wanted to fight has weighed on internal debates, dictated priorities and often narrowed options for the United States, according to current and former administration officials.
Most tangibly, the swift American drawdown in Iraq will influence how the United States handles the endgame in Afghanistan, where NATO forces have agreed to hand over security and pull out by 2014. The fact that the troops are leaving Iraq without a wholesale breakdown in security, some analysts said, may embolden a war-weary administration to move up the timetable for getting out of Afghanistan. 
It has also shifted the balance of power in Washington, from the military commanders, who were desperate to leave a residual force of soldiers in Iraq, toward Mr. Obama's civilian advisers, who are busy calculating how getting them all home by Christmas might help their boss's re-election bid.
''There used to be a hot debate over even setting a timetable,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser. While he cautioned that Iraq is not a perfect precedent for Afghanistan, ''there should be no doubt about our commitment to follow through on the timelines we set in Afghanistan,'' he said.
Mr. Rhodes, who wrote Mr. Obama's foreign policy speeches during his 2008 campaign, said Iraq was a ''dramatically underrepresented element of the way in which people look at Obama's foreign policy.'' As a candidate whose opposition to the war helped define him, Mr. Rhodes said, ''Senator Obama constructed an entire argument of foreign policy, based on Iraq.''
His argument had two central pillars: that Iraq had taken the United States' eye off the real battle in Afghanistan, and that it had diminished the United States' standing in the world. This led directly to two of the administration's most significant foreign policy and national security projects: Mr. Obama's lethal counterterrorism strategy and his recent series of diplomatic and military initiatives in Asia.
The drone strikes and commando raids that the president recently boasted had killed ''22 out of 30 top Al Qaeda leaders,'' including Osama bin Laden, were honed in the night raids by American troops on militants in Iraq.
Mr. Obama's emphasis on restoring the United States' place in Asia grew out of a post-Iraq ''strategic rebalancing'' pushed by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon. The war, they contend, sucked American time and resources from other parts of the world, allowing China to expand its sway throughout much of the Pacific Rim.
In the early days of his presidency, as Mr. Obama weighed more troop deployments in Afghanistan, he was still heavily influenced by commanders like Gen. David H. Petraeus, who was fresh off his successful ''surge'' in Iraq and pressed for an ambitious counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan.
''Here was a general who, in Petraeus's case, had turned around a situation dramatically in Iraq, and was offering to do it again,'' said Bruce O. Riedel, who ran the White House's initial policy review on Afghanistan.
By 2011, however, Mr. Obama had developed his own views about the use of military force. His reluctant intervention in Libya -- only after receiving the imprimatur of the Arab League, and then with limited military engagement -- bore the hallmarks of a post-Iraq operation. In Syria, where a dictator in the Baathist tradition of Saddam Hussein has killed his own people, the United States has not considered a no-fly zone, let alone broader military intervention.
''The larger legacy of Iraq was that the U.S. military cannot shape outcomes,'' said Vali Nasr, a former senior adviser in the State Department. ''That led to skittishness on our part about using the military.''
Mr. Obama made much of his commitment to a multilateral foreign policy, in contrast to President George W. Bush's unilateral invasion of Iraq. That, his advisers say, grew out of a conviction the United States needed to work with others and forge consensus to restore its moral standing.
But it also reflects a sober economic reality: with more than $800 billion in costs from the Iraq war -- and nearly $450 billion from Afghanistan -- the United States can no longer afford another big, go-it-alone military campaign.
''The impulse toward multilateralism is more complicated,'' said Dennis B. Ross, who until last month was one of Mr. Obama's senior Middle East advisers. ''There is a desire, understandably, for our actions to have greater legitimacy on the world stage. But there is also an interest in burden-sharing and sharing the cost as well.''
Some analysts argue that the administration's multilateral approach owes less to Iraq than it does to traditional Democratic Party philosophy.
''No doubt, Iraq contributed to his view that we should wield power less, should not act without U.N. resolutions and multilateral support, and should try to 'engage' with hostile regimes, but I suspect the president held those views years earlier,'' said Elliott Abrams, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who worked in the George W. Bush and Reagan administrations.
''That's pretty standard stuff on the left,'' he added. ''Iraq made them more central to his actions as president, but I doubt it taught him much.''
The Bush administration had hoped that Iraq would be a catalyst for democratic change across the Arab world. But there is little evidence that Iraq prepared the United States for the political changes that swept over the Middle East and North Africa this spring, eight years after American troops toppled Mr. Hussein.
The Obama administration's initial response to the upheaval in Egypt and elsewhere was halting, as it balanced its support for the protesters with its fear of losing strategic allies. Mr. Rhodes said Iraq's legacy was visible in the administration's insistence on homegrown, rather than externally imposed, democratic change. That is likely to mean coming to terms with rulers it views as less than ideal, like the Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamist parties, which made striking gains in Egypt's recent parliamentary elections.
''Iraq has taught us we can live with Islamists,'' Mr. Nasr said. ''We can live with a Maliki in Egypt,'' he said, referring to Iraq's Shiite prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. ''Iraq exorcised the way we latched on to secular dictators.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, at Fort Bragg, N.C., on Wednesday, welcomed troops home from Iraq. The end of the war in Iraq will also influence the end of operations in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (75%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



795 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Economy Rules G.O.P.'s Message, but Iowa Differs

BYLINE: By A.G. SULZBERGER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Des Moines, and Steven Yaccino from Chicago.

 BODY:
PELLA, Iowa -- Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich, Rick Perry and nearly every other Republican presidential candidate has visited the same sprawling factory complex here in recent months. They came to talk about business and manufacturing and, of course, to hit hard on the dominant theme of the campaign trail: unemployment and the struggling economy.
Mr. Romney's harsh criticism of President Obama's economic stewardship to a group of local business leaders was typical: ''He is not up to the task of leading the country at a time of economic crisis. And that's what we have.''
A factory should provide an ideal backdrop to that type of campaign rhetoric. But in this case, the candidates' gloomy words contrasted with good times at the plant, and the surrounding community. The company, the Vermeer Corporation, a manufacturer of agriculture and mining machinery, has hired 200 new employees over the past two years as sales have risen to record levels. Today, it has openings for an additional 100 jobs. 
As the first state to take part in the Republican nominating contest, Iowa has long been criticized as too much of an outlier to be permanently endowed such an outsize influence in shaping the presidential field. Too small, critics say. Too rural. Too white. But this election cycle, there is another particularly relevant way in which the state does not represent the nation as a whole: it is too economically healthy.
Iowa, one of several Midwestern states that largely sidestepped the reckless rise of the housing market and the crash that followed, has remained relatively stable through these difficult years. Buoyed by a booming agriculture sector, the state is enjoying lower unemployment, greater income growth, steadier home sales and fewer foreclosures than most others.
''The recession hit here later, and it wasn't nearly as bad,'' said Charles Whiteman, director of the Institute for Economic Research at the University of Iowa. ''This year, Iowa is actually performing fairly well.''
Which makes the state an odd staging ground for an election that is often described as all about jobs and the economy. Iowa has a 6 percent unemployment rate, the seventh lowest in the nation, just behind New Hampshire, where voters will cast ballots in a primary one week after the Iowa caucuses. That differs sharply from the hard-luck landscapes to which the primary voting will quickly shift -- South Carolina, Florida and Nevada, all home to double-digit unemployment rates that are among the highest in the nation.
Though some people suggest that Iowa's stability has broadened the debate beyond the economy in the early stages of the campaign, the presidential candidates -- perhaps speaking to a national audience -- continue to focus on the financial struggles of Americans as they deliver speeches around the state.
For the voters who say they plan to attend the Republican caucuses in Iowa, economic concerns are far less pronounced than elsewhere across the country. The latest New York Times/CBS News poll found that 19 percent of people likely to attend caucuses said they were very concerned that someone in their household could lose their job in the next year, while nationally that figure is about twice as high.
Moreover, the poll found that nearly 90 percent of those likely to take part in the caucuses described their family's financial situation as good, which is about 20 points higher than all Americans.
At Ulrich's Meat Market here in Pella, a town of 10,000, Joe Becker, the owner, said he was enjoying an unusually profitable year, a sentiment echoed by other business owners lining the vibrant Dutch-style center square. ''We live in a bubble in this town,'' he said. ''You'd never know anything was wrong.''
Mr. Becker said that he remained undecided about which candidate to support (several have stopped by the store), and that he would like to see the remaining contenders spend a little less time talking about unemployment. ''I realize the jobs thing is very important,'' he said. ''But there's a whole bunch of other things that are not good.''
Doug Gross, a prominent Iowa Republican who supported Mr. Romney in the 2008 election but is currently not affiliated with any candidate, said he believed that the state's relative economic health had encouraged more conversation about other issues, like immigration, same-sex marriage and abortion.
''It's a broader debate than you're going to see elsewhere,'' Mr. Gross said. ''It's still the most important issue,'' he said of the economy, ''but it's not the only issue. That separates us from other states.''
Nevertheless, Democratic and Republican leaders say they expect that the economy will be the dominant issue behind voting decisions at the caucuses on Jan. 3. Though just two of the state's 99 counties matched or exceeded the 8.6 percent national unemployment rate in October, nearly 100,000 people in the state of just over three million are still searching for jobs. And groups providing assistance with food, rent and utilities are reporting sharp increases in demand, suggesting that life is getting tougher at the bottom.
Even those who are enjoying stable employment say they worry that conditions might suddenly get worse, pointing out that Iowa has a history of recovering from economic downturns more slowly than other states.
Iowa -- and its economic health -- will enjoy relevance beyond next month's caucuses because of its status as a swing state in the general election.
''While we are doing better than other parts of the country, the same issues are still facing Iowans,'' said Norm Sterzenbach, executive director of the Iowa Democratic Party. ''When they go to vote in November, it's going to be all about the economy.''
So Mr. Obama would have been encouraged to hear the conversation at a recent meeting of the Iowa Association of Business and Industry, where a vast majority of attendees reported having had a very good year or a record year. The most frequently voiced problem, said Michael Ralston, the president of the group, was difficulty finding enough qualified workers.
''But people were very cautious,'' Mr. Ralston added. ''Things are good, orders were strong, employment is steady. But will it hold?''
In Pella, the news has not been uniformly positive. Not far from the bustling Vermeer complex, orders have been continually slow at the town's other major employer, a factory operated by the Pella Corporation. The company, which makes windows and doors, has sharply cut the number of employees in response to the drop in new construction. Last month, it announced that it would close a plant in South Carolina, its third plant closing in three years, and would lay off nearly 200 workers at its headquarters here.
Mang Thao, who has worked in the factory here for 16 years, prepared his resume as a precaution. But he said he was not too concerned, noting that there were plenty of jobs just across town at Vermeer.
''In other cities it might be difficult,'' he said. ''But around here, I'm still convinced I could find a job.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Sunday with the continuation of an article about the economic health of Iowa misstated the location in Pella, Iowa, where the photograph of the Vermeer Mill was taken. It is in the town's historic district, not in the nearby ''Dutch-style center square.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Pella Corporation, which makes windows and doors, has not fared as well as some of the other industries in Iowa.
Joe Becker said that his store in downtown Pella, Iowa, Ulrich's Meat Market, was having an unusually profitable year.
 The center square in Pella. ''We live in a bubble in this town,'' Mr. Becker said. ''You'd never know anything was wrong.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); AGRICULTURE (68%); FORECLOSURE (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (88%); RICK PERRY (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2011



796 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES Scott Pelley reports on a ripple effect of mortgage foreclosures: plummeting property values in neighborhoods with high home-vacancy rates. Anderson Cooper goes scuba diving in one of the Caribbean's imperiled coral reefs. Morley Safer meets with Meryl Streep, above, to discuss her portrayal of Margaret Thatcher in the biopic ''The Iron Lady.'' Ms. Streep also touches on topics like her preference for low-budget pictures and her opinion that the quality of acting has improved over time, even as the subjects of more and more films have become less intellectual.
9 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS David Gregory interviews Speaker of the House John Boehner about the payroll tax and asks Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, about the Iowa caucuses and her attempt to outshine Newt Gingrich. Nikki Haley, the governor of South Carolina, discusses her endorsement of Mitt Romney. 
9 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE In his first appearance on a Sunday talk show in over a year and a half, the Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney joins Mr. Wallace to discuss his campaign, his rivals for the nomination and his outlook on the Iowa caucuses, which are to be held on Jan. 10. The show's panel includes Bill Kristol of The Weekly Standard, former Senator Evan Bayh and the Fox analyst Juan Williams.
10 A.M. FAREED ZAKARIA GPS President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan shares his view on the timetable for the withdrawal of United States and NATO troops from his country and whether he wants forces to remain. Other topics include his commitment to upholding human rights and his outlook on his country's stability.
10:30 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR Ms. Amanpour begins a feature that is being called ''The Great American Debate,'' with the outgoing chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, the chairman of the House Budget Committee. Also participating are George F. Will and Robert Reich, the former secretary of labor.
4 P.M. (TCM) AN AMERICAN IN PARIS (1951) Postwar Paris swings to the score of George Gershwin in this musical directed by Vincente Minnelli. The American expatriate Jerry Mulligan (Gene Kelly) scrapes by as a painter until his work is found by the wealthy Milo Roberts (Nina Foch), who is more after his heart than his art. But Jerry is taken with a French girl, Lise (Leslie Caron), who happens to be seeing somebody else.
6:30 P.M. (13) LINCOLN CENTER DIALOGUE: AMERICA'S COMPETITIVE CHALLENGES Leaders from the business world share their views on the obstacles facing America in the global economy and how the nation can capitalize on its strengths. In this installment of the series, Peter R. Orszag, the vice chairman for global banking at Citigroup, and Ruth Porat, the chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley, discuss these issues in depth with the moderator Tom Brokaw.
8 P.M. (CBS) SURVIVOR: SOUTH PACIFIC In the two-hour season finale, the tribal council will decide which contestant (perhaps Ozzy Lusth, left) will depart from the Samoan island of Upolu $1 million richer. At 10, the cast members of this 23rd season of ''Survivor'' will reunite to reflect on their shared memories and, possibly, dwell on their grievances.
8 P.M. (TLC) MY BIG FAT GYPSY CHRISTMAS Each year groups of Ireland's itinerant population of travelers convene in Rathkeale, a small town in County Limerick, to celebrate Christmas and hold some over-the-top weddings. The spotlight is centered on Thelma Madine, who designs eye-catching wedding dresses for traveler brides. Also in this episode, a close-up and personal look at a First Communion parade in County Cork, where young girls show off their fancy attire.
9 P.M. (Fox News Channel) WAR STORIES WITH OLIVER NORTH: A TRIBUTE TO OUR HEROES WHO SERVED IN IRAQ In the series's 100th episode, veterans of the war in Iraq reflect on their service and offer their reactions to the exit of American combat troops. Mr. North also tracks down soldiers who have previously been profiled on ''War Stories'' to check in on how they are doing now.
11 P.M. (VH1) WHY AM I STILL SINGLE? In the season finale, Siggy Flicker, the Cupid avatar of this dating show, aims her arrows at the image-obsessed Lucia and the would-be comedian Mike. To prepare the two for their blind date, Siggy tries to train Lucia to drop her shallow outlook about appearances and to teach Mike to stop using his humor as a defense mechanism. THOMAS GAFFNEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WATER SPORTS (77%); SCUBA DIVING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); DRAMA FILMS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); ISLANDS & REEFS (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); MERYL STREEP (71%); EVAN BAYH (58%); NIKKI HALEY (53%); BARNEY FRANK (53%); JOHN BOEHNER (53%); NEWT GINGRICH (53%); MICHELE BACHMANN (53%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (50%); HAMAD KARZAI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (66%) IOWA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); AFGHANISTAN (78%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



797 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Payroll Tax Cut Passes Senate As a Stopgap

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Helene Cooper and Robert Pear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Capping a year of last-minute, half-loaf legislation, the Senate voted overwhelmingly on Saturday to extend a payroll tax cut for only two months, with the chamber's leaders and the White House proclaiming victory, even as they punted into the new year the issue of how to further extend the tax cut and unemployment benefits.
In an unusual Saturday vote, the Senate approved by an 89-to-10 vote a $33 billion package that would extend a payroll-tax holiday for millions of American workers, extend unemployment benefits and avoid cuts in payments to doctors who accept Medicare. The measure would be effective through February, when Congress could again be locked in battle over whether and how to extend those provisions. 
The legislation -- should it get through the House -- mirrors a series of 11th-hour deals devised by the 112th Congress that appeared to solve an impending crisis, but simply pushed the issues forward.
But House passage next week was thrown into serious doubt on Saturday afternoon, when a number of rank-and-file Republicans objected in a conference call with Speaker John A. Boehner, who tried to persuade them that it was good for their party, particularly the provision that would speed the decision process for construction of an oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf Coast known as Keystone XL. Just a week ago, President Obama had threatened to veto that provision.
''I think the American people are not going to be too pleased about this,'' said Representative Tom Graves of Georgia. ''I would say it has a very steep uphill fight in our conference. It's a joke.''
Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina complained: ''The House has capitulated to the Senate too often this year, in our judgment. It is time to stand on principle and fight. And if that means spending Christmas away from home, others have sacrificed far more than that for principle.''
Some other Republican conference leaders, including the House majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, also criticized of the two-month extension.
Many House Republicans dislike the payroll tax cut holiday because it takes money away from the Social Security trust fund, which then must be reimbursed with general fund dollars. They also objected that several policy riders that they and conservative voters hold dear had been stripped out.
Mr. Obama acknowledged Saturday that a two-month extension would mean Democrats and Republicans could be fighting the same fight again in February. In remarks before the White House press corps, the president said that next year's vote should be a ''formality,'' and that he expected that Congress would accomplish his goal of a one-year extension ''with as little drama as possible when they come back next month.''
Any thought that Congress will agree on a yearlong tax-cut extension or on the other provisions is extremely optimistic, given that its work will overlap with Mr. Obama's State of the Union speech, the heat of the Republican primaries and a presidential campaign hitting full stride.
Republicans, seizing on the deficit-cutting mantra they heard from the voters who helped them gain sweeping control of the House in 2010, spent much of the last year successfully pushing for vast spending cuts and maintaining the Bush-era tax cuts for all Americans, including the wealthy. Now, the dynamic has shifted somewhat, with a nearly equal focus in the nation on income disparity, an issue Democrats believe they can seize on. ''I think we will be on higher and higher ground,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Senate Democrat, ''because the focus in 2012 is going to be on the middle class.''
Continuing another theme of this Congress, Republican leaders -- but not necessarily their rank and file -- had wanted a full-year payroll tax cut deal to try to inoculate themselves against accusations by Democrats, as they head into an election year, that they are against tax cuts for low- and middle-income workers. It will be up to Mr. Boehner to convince his members that extending the cut -- and at least appearing to work with Democrats even as they labor to unseat Mr. Obama and the Democrats who still control the Senate -- will ultimately work in their political favor.
Mr. Obama, in agreeing to a two-month fix, is betting that Congress, in an election year, will not want to run the political risk of raising taxes.
During a briefing with reporters Saturday, senior administration officials repeatedly referred to Congress's low approval ratings with American voters, saying that it would be political suicide for Republicans to turn around next February and not extend the tax cut. ''You've got to look at the forest,'' one senior administration official said, speaking on condition of anonymity under guidelines established by the White House before the briefing. ''The forest remains that these guys have a weak economy, and they're going to be running next year.''
Despite Mr. Obama's veto threat of any legislation that tried to tie approval of the Keystone pipeline to the payroll tax-cut extension, White House officials said they were sanguine that at the end of the day, Mr. Obama would not find himself forced to fast-track the pipeline.
The State Department has already put off a decision on Keystone pending changes in the route and further environmental reviews, and has indicated that any attempts to hasten the project will most likely result in its disapproval, a warning White House officials gleefully repeated time and again on Saturday.
Still, for Mr. Obama, the Keystone project now remains tied to the payroll-tax cut extension, which puts the president at risk in an election year of appearing to coddle the environmental groups who form part of his Democratic base at the expense of the 160 million Americans who the White House says would benefit from continuing the tax cut.
Mr. Obama's aides said Saturday that he was delaying his departure for Christmas vacation in Hawaii until what had been expected to be next week's House vote on the two-month payroll tax extension. If Republican leaders cannot quell a rebellion by their rank-and file, that could also be delayed. But the threat of a government shutdown was averted Saturday when the Senate gave final passage to a $1 trillion bill to finance the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security and other agencies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, after the vote on the $33 billion package on Saturday morning. Passage of the bill in the House was put in doubt after rank-and-file Republicans raised objections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); VETO (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); TREY GOWDY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



798 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Working With Medicare

 BODY:
There are many ways to rein in Medicare spending without scrapping the system and starting over.
Republicans are arguing that helping older and disabled Americans buy private insurance would be cheaper for the federal government and better for beneficiaries. Last week, a Democratic senator, Ron Wyden of Oregon, joined Representative Paul Ryan, chairman of the Budget Committee, in proposing the latest version of ''premium support.'' Their ideas deserve careful scrutiny, but we are skeptical that any of the proposals for premium support that have been floated by Republicans can rein in Medicare spending without harming beneficiaries, financially or medically.
Traditional Medicare has improved the health and financial security for countless older Americans over the past four decades, and it has done better at slowing cost increases than has private insurance. Before heading off in a new and risky direction, policy makers should carefully consider a host of ideas that could shave hundreds of billions of dollars from projected Medicare spending over the next decade without shifting huge burdens onto beneficiaries. 
Here are some of the proposals raised by politicians and experts from across the political spectrum:
DRUG DISCOUNTS The federal government will spend $53 billion to subsidize drug purchases by Medicare this fiscal year, and significantly more after that. Unfortunately, when Congress authorized the badly needed program in 2003, it bowed to lobbyists from the drug industry and barred Medicare from using its huge leverage to push for deep discounts.
The Medicaid program for the poor exacts big discounts. If Medicare received the same deals just for its poorest beneficiaries, federal spending could be cut by $112 billion to $135 billion over 10 years, according to government estimates. Better yet, Congress should allow Medicare to negotiate drug discounts for all Medicare beneficiaries. The manufacturers can afford a lower profit margin, and enrollees would probably pay lower premiums after the companies lowered their prices.
PROVIDERS, PROFITS AND MANAGED CARE Expert commissions have judged that Medicare pays some providers more than necessary to earn a reasonable profit while providing good care. Changing the formula for paying skilled nursing facilities and home health care providers, for example, could save $40 billion over a decade.
Urban Institute analysts believe there are enormous potential savings from aggressively managing and coordinating the care provided to elderly people who are poor enough to receive services from both Medicare and Medicaid, and from better managing the treatment of Medicare patients who have multiple chronic conditions. Their optimistic estimate: better care and more than $200 billion saved over 10 years.
65 OR 67? Raising the age for Medicare -- the most common proposal is to go from 65 to an eventual 67 -- is a guaranteed way to reduce Medicare spending. This is a reasonable idea only if the health care reform law remains in place, enabling people to find affordable coverage through an expanded Medicaid program or on new insurance exchanges where those with modest incomes would be eligible for subsidies. Otherwise, many people might forgo expensive private coverage and end up sicker by the time they could enroll in Medicare.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that a two-year rise in the Medicare age would result in a net reduction in federal spending of $125 billion over a decade.
REAL COST-SHARING One serious problem with Medicare is that patients have little incentive to question whether an expensive test or procedure is necessary, while doctors have a financial incentive to perform more tests and procedures. Medicare imposes cost-sharing through deductibles and co-payments, but the vast majority of enrollees have supplemental insurance that covers these costs.
There are reasonable proposals to make beneficiaries pay more out of pocket and thereby make them more careful consumers. One set would prevent or deter beneficiaries from buying Medigap policies that provide ''first dollar'' coverage. That could save more than $50 billion over 10 years, and most enrollees would save money from lower premiums. The losers would be low-income enrollees in poor health or in need of hospital care, because their cost-sharing would rise above any premium reduction. The danger is that many of them might forgo needed care and require costly hospitalization down the road. The expert commission that monitors Medicare's performance would need to step in if this approach caused undue damage.
A MORE ORDERLY SYSTEMA second set of cost-sharing proposals focus on Medicare's crazy-quilt pattern of charging different premiums, deductibles and co-payments depending on where the care is delivered (hospital, clinic, doctor's office, at home or elsewhere) while putting no caps on what a patient might ultimately have to pay. This adds administrative costs and is a disservice to patients who may not realize what their cost-sharing will be.
In one idea, all patients would have a $550 annual deductible for care provided by hospitals and doctors, a 20 percent co-insurance rate for virtually all services wherever they are delivered, and a cap on out-of-pocket spending. That could save the government more than $30 billion over 10 years. It would force most beneficiaries to pay more, but would reduce out-of-pocket spending by the sickest patients, which makes it seem relatively fair. Again, precautions must be taken to protect low-income people.
MEANS TESTING Virtually all beneficiaries now pay premiums for their medical (as opposed to hospital) coverage, and individuals earning more than $85,000 a year pay more as their income rises. There are proposals to make premiums for the better-off even higher and increase the number of people who would have to pay them for both medical and prescription drug coverage. That could generate a 10-year savings of $50 billion. A more aggressive plan that would raise premiums substantially on everyone could generate more than $200 billion. That seems risky.
THE REAL SOLUTIONThe biggest driver in the rise in Medicare spending -- and the cost of private insurance -- is the relentless rise in health care costs. Whatever Congress decides about Medicare, there will be no real fix without wrestling those costs down.
The reform law makes a start for Medicare by reducing payments to providers and private Medicare Advantage plans to save more than $400 billion over 10 years. It is trying to fix the broader system. As part of health care reform, Medicare has begun a variety of pilot projects and new payment incentives to test promising cost-reduction measures. Medicare can then use its market presence and regulatory powers to push innovations into widespread use.
To tackle projected deficits over the next several decades, Medicare spending will have to be slowed to roughly the rate of economic growth. But in a dysfunctional and far too costly health care system, Medicare still works better than most private plans and offers the best chance for promoting wider reforms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DRUG PRICES (87%); HEALTH CARE (86%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NEW ISSUES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); AGING (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (67%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (61%); MEDICAID (58%); HOME HEALTH CARE (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RON WYDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011



799 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2418 words

HEADLINE: Friending the New York Scene

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
SINCE moving to Manhattan three years ago, Sean Parker, a founder of Napster and former president of Facebook, has considerably enlivened New York's social scene.
The parties at Bacchus House, his mansionlike home in the West Village (bought for $20 million from the liquor heir Enrico Marone Cinzano and featuring an indoor swimming pool), have become mini-salons for an eclectic mix of artists, scientists and celebrities.
He is a regular presence on the New York charity circuit, with causes including cancer research and bringing fresh drinking water to developing countries. (At a party for the latter cause a little over a year ago, not knowing who had contributed, he angrily threatened to throw out his guests -- who included Edward Norton, David Blaine and the singer John Mayer -- if they had not made a donation, and instead had come, as he put it, just to eat his food and drink his liquor.)
Last year, he became deeply involved in and helped pay for the cancer treatment of Laura Ziskin, a Hollywood producer and friend who died in June. 
''He cares a great deal about the people around him,'' said Peter Thiel, Mr. Parker's friend and a partner at San Francisco-based Founders Fund, a venture capital firm and early Facebook investor where Mr. Parker is now an executive general partner. But there is one aspect of his reputation the 32-year-old Mr. Parker can't seem to shake: Most people still think he's that sleazy guy from ''The Social Network.''
That 2010 film role, played by Justin Timberlake, continues to echo a little more than a year later. ''On a daily basis I bump into someone who, either online or in real life, identifies strongly with that character and who actually thinks that I had something to do with that,'' Mr. Parker said in a recent interview, adding that while he read Aaron Sorkin's script (''I was mortified,'' he said), he played no part in either its casting or development.
Of course, Mr. Timberlake's portrayal of Mr. Parker wasn't based on thin air. For his 30th birthday party in 2009, Mr. Parker welcomed 800 guests to Bacchus House, handing them flutes of Champagne when they arrived and, later, serving them plates of mac and cheese topped with truffles.
He favors Tom Ford suits and Dior jeans, though he lamented to this reporter that the pair he was wearing was too snug. And in 2005, Mr. Parker said he was booked in North Carolina on suspicion of cocaine possession when he was president of Facebook (no cocaine was found on him and he was never charged).
But Mr. Parker is also a self-educated polymath who decided as a teenager to liberate himself from what he called ''the shackles of conventionality'' and found himself at the forefront of two of technology's most important trends: the digital distribution of entertainment, and social media. At 19, he helped found Napster, the online music-file sharing service that roiled the recording industry. At 24, he joined Facebook as its president after sending an e-mail to Mark Zuckerberg, a founder and chief executive.
According to Forbes, Mr. Parker's net worth is near $2.1 billion, largely because of his Facebook stock. But whether he was at the right place at the right time (as some critics claim) or a visionary (as supporters suggest) is almost irrelevant. He has become a celebrity in his own right, his prognostications about social media (as well as details of his personal life) parsed with as much interest as the antics of his actor friend, Ashton Kutcher.
''A lot of people are interested in Sean for the same reason I am,'' said Michael Wolff, the columnist and author who is a close friend of Mr. Parker, whom he met a decade ago. ''You think he knows something you don't.''
AT about 2:20 p.m. on the day before Thanksgiving, Mr. Parker, who'd arrived the night before by chartered private jet from Los Angeles, greeted a reporter waiting in his living room with a hug.
His auburn curls were wet and long; an assistant reminded him a stylist was waiting on the fourth floor to give him a haircut. He'd been working on the West Coast (he recently bought a home in San Francisco), and Bacchus House was buzzing with staff.
Among the many artworks that came with the house are two six-foot portraits by the Spanish Renaissance painter Alonso Sanchez Coello that dominated the living room. On a side table was a photo album from the Oscar party he attended this year hosted by Demi Moore and Madonna.
In his third-floor office, two computer screens hover over a desk where two asthma inhalers, a BlackBerry and a can of sparkling apple juice were placed. There, too, on the back wall behind Mr. Parker's desk, hung Byzantine Christian icons left by Mr. Cinzano. One of them was a portrait of Jesus framed in gold, beams of reflected light shooting from his pate, eyes staring at the back of Mr. Parker's head as he spoke.
Mr. Parker was born in 1979 and raised in Herndon, Va., a suburb of Washington, the older brother to two sisters. Sean was diagnosed with asthma early on and suffers from severe allergies to nuts and shellfish, ailments which he has treated with sometimes unorthodox measures. (He carries Benadryl dissolving strips in his wallet, which he bought en masse before they were discontinued.)
''It fed into his obsessive side,'' said his father, Bruce Parker, a retired United States government oceanographer. ''As a 12-year-old he would challenge his doctors.''
Sean Parker spent much of his childhood challenging authority. At 16, he was arrested for hacking into corporate and military computer networks (the family's modest home was swarmed one afternoon by government agents).
''I remember crying and crying, and they had sequestered me in this room, and I overheard these two women talking, F.B.I. agents,'' Mr. Parker said. ''One of them said, 'He doesn't seem like such a bad kid.' And the other one said: 'You have no idea. You have no idea what he is into.' ''
Mr. Parker did community service for his transgressions. But hacking proved a powerful social outlet for the sometimes sickly misfit uninterested in student clubs, which he described as ''empty, meaningless groups of people.''
''I've never been much of a joiner,'' he said.
It was then, Mr. Parker said, that he experienced what he called an existential crisis, torn between becoming an academic like his father (a ''diligent normal person,'' as the younger Mr. Parker put it) or something altogether different.
''There came a time when these two incompatible notions of who I was, well, something had to give,'' Mr. Parker said. ''Either that 'something' is where you acquiesce to the world around you and you conform, or you sort of defiantly break whatever remaining bonds connect you to that world and create for yourself a different set of values.''
He skipped college (to his parent's disappointment) and, in 1999, moved to Silicon Valley to work with Shawn Fanning, his fellow Napster founder, defying recording companies that later sued Napster for creating a system to easily swap pirated songs. (Despite that, Mr. Parker has many friends who are artists and executives in the music business.)
After Napster, Mr. Parker went on to found the online address-book service Plaxo, where he clashed with the company's venture capital partners and was fired. He joined Facebook in 2004 as its founding president, but left the next year, shuffled out by the company's outside investors, Mr. Parker said, over ''external events,'' including the North Carolina incident and the fallout from his earlier clash with venture partners.
His feeling of being an outsider is not confined to corporate life. ''At every point I am besieged by people who would like me to conform to some social norm of whatever sort of social group they expect me to be a part of,'' Mr. Parker said. ''I never have any identification with these social groups.''
Even so, friends say, Mr. Parker craves community. Alexandra Lenas, a singer-songwriter and Mr. Parker's fiancee, said they have been together every day since their third date nearly 14 months ago. (Mr. Parker insists that contrary to online gossip reports, he did not dump his longtime girlfriend, Kate Jurkiewicz, for Ms. Lenas.)
At times their youthful exuberance bubbled over. ''Little one!'' Mr. Parker called to Ms. Lenas, who was upstairs. ''Come! I want you to say hello.''
A slender, doe-eyed beauty slipped into the chair next to him; he grabbed her hand and kissed it sweetly. (Her nickname for him, she said, is ''Goobin.'') She explained they had gone to her parents' home in New Jersey for Thanksgiving and had packed their matching footed pajamas. Mr. Parker beamed.
He seems more comfortable in small, intimate settings. Last December, Mr. Parker had a small dinner party at The Lion, the media-centric restaurant he frequents, to celebrate his 31st birthday. Mr. Parker said he invited about 15 close friends, including Mr. Wolff; Sean Lennon, the son of the singer John Lennon; and Kevin Colleran, whom Mr. Parker recruited to Facebook.
After dinner everyone was invited back to Bacchus House where Mr. Colleran said Mr. Parker prepared cups of hand-blended tea, urging his guests to stay longer.
''Those hours are lonely for him when he's not with people,'' Mr. Colleran said. ''You will get a call at 3 a.m. in the morning where he wants to talk. It is a random thing. He wants to make sure you are coming to his engagement party. But you have no idea what triggered that thought.''
(In response, Mr. Parker said, ''One of the difficulties in living the lifestyle I lead is that it is hard to get my friends in one place.'')
Mr. Parker's behavior can seem erratic. He is often late. When asked whether he had used drugs, he turned florid and abstract, saying: ''I'm a believer in any method of mind expansion whether facilitated by meditation, religious experience or drug use. There is a value in using tools available to us, even if it is pharmacological in nature, if it expands the mind.''
He said he sometimes disappears during parties at home, and has trouble gauging social cues in large groups.
Last March he attended a charity event at London's Bridgewater House hosted by Trudie Styler, the wife of Sting. ''There were all these wealthy establishment people and it was, like, dreadfully boring,'' Mr. Parker said. ''So I was trying my best to make light of the situation. I don't know what I said to some guy, but I said something like, I liked his jacket. And he thought I was being sarcastic. And he actually started to get, well, it became this big thing.''
Mr. Parker knew other people there and moved between tables to talk. ''There was this sense, I think, everyone felt uncomfortable, whereas, for some reason, I didn't feel uncomfortable in that situation,'' said Mr. Parker, still puzzled at their reaction. ''I kind of ran around for a little while, became bored, and I left.''
THE Monday evening after Thanksgiving, Bacchus House was unusually quiet. Mr. Parker's voice echoed in the cavernous atrium as he bounded down the stairs, waving his BlackBerry and pointing to a gossip item about him that he had pulled up onscreen. It was minor, but the attention given to it by Mr. Parker pointed to a larger issue since the ''The Social Network'' was released: he is concerned with his public image. ''Entrepreneurs are not supposed to be famous,'' he said. ''This is not a problem I am supposed to have.''
''I've said to him a million times it doesn't matter,'' Mr. Wolff, the author and his friend, said of Mr. Parker's depiction in the film. ''I say, 'These things go on around people who have notoriety.' But I think he finds it hard to let go.''
Added Chris Kelly, a friend and Facebook's former chief privacy officer, who has known Mr. Parker since 2004: ''There is a reactivity to the way he experiences the world. He needs to have a filter.''
Mr. Parker sought to correct the imbalance between his private and public persona by setting up a Twitter account. ''If you just overexpose to the point where it's all out there, there is nothing they can say about you that has not already been said,'' Mr. Parker explained before Thanksgiving.
But the reaction has been mixed. When one poster told him to ''stop whining,'' Mr. Parker wrote that he was ''just embracing the idea of radical transparency -- exposing my inner monologue even when it's not rainbows/sunshine.''
When others commented on whether Mr. Parker complained too much, Mr. Parker wrote, ''EVERYTHING sounds like a complaint when one lives in a Scrooge McDuck vault counting gold bars and eating bonbons.''
Mr. Parker described his Twitter musings as a failed experiment. Still, his professional reputation doesn't seem to have suffered much. His newest company, Airtime, is a video chat service he founded with Mr. Fanning.
He is a director at Spotify, a music sharing and streaming service founded in Sweden, which he hopes will be a (legal) successor to Napster. And more quietly, he is a founder of Causes.com, an online political and philanthropy activism Web site set up in 2007. Mr. Parker says he wants to harness the ubiquity of social media and make it easy for anyone to finance a cause.
''Part of it is showing people they have power all the way down the chain,'' he said.
In October 2010, Mr. Parker was honored at the Angel Ball gala at Cipriani Wall Street hosted by Gabrielle's Angel Foundation for Cancer Research, a nonprofit organized by the socialite Denise Rich. About 950 people were there, including Kim Kardashian and Ivana Trump. Guests lined up to shake Mr. Parker's hand, offering congratulations for his pledge of $500,000.
Later, Mr. Parker gave a 15-minute speech on why more researchers should study the immune system as a way to cure cancer, citing specific research and recent scientific studies. ''The impression of him changed that night,'' Ms. Rich said. ''This man had so much substance.''
But in a way, it was another clever hack.
''I mean it was the most socialite event imaginable and I stand up and I'm giving this screaming diatribe on what is wrong with cancer research and why they are getting it wrong,'' he said, laughing. ''It was just weird.''
Online Correction: December 17, 2011, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the event at which Sean Parker and his fiancee, Alexandra Lenas, were shown. It was a party in Washington, not an economic forum. And an earlier version of this correction misstated Mr. Parker's surname as Andrew.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PUBLIC IMAGE: Since ''The Social Network'' was released, Sean Parker, the former president of Facebook, has been concerned with his public image. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK VELTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
SEAN PARKER (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS)
JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA EDELSON/NBC) (ST12)
FACT AND FICTION: Clockwise from above: At Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, Dustin Moskovitz and Sean Parker, from left. Alexandra Lenas. Mr. Parker, right, at an economic forum. Justin Timberlake, left, in the film. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG VIA GETTY IMAGES
 MERRICK MORTON/COLUMBIA PICTURES) (ST14) CHART: PARALLEL LIVES: Justin Timberlake and Sean Parker (ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); CANCER (70%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); COCAINE (62%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (89%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011



800 of 1231 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2424 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Scenes, Shaking Up the Fight Game

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
As Floyd Mayweather Jr. basked in his latest victory, the man behind the curtain actually stood behind a curtain, a cliche sprung to life. Few in the postfight news conference recognized this man, a reclusive, eccentric so-called adviser who rarely ventures into public.
The man arrived in Las Vegas incognito, dressed like a secret agent: black suit, white shirt, dark tie. His influence extended over every aspect of the promotion, from Mayweather's $40 million pay structure to the resale of the best tickets at the MGM's Grand Garden Arena.
As the chief architect of the career of Mayweather, perhaps the most prominent fighter since Mike Tyson, this man ranks among boxing's most powerful figures. He also stands between Mayweather and a blockbuster fight with Manny Pacquiao.
From behind the curtain, he watched as Mayweather called his sizable entourage onstage, thanking bodyguards, assistants and assistants to assistants. ''Where's Al Haymon?'' Mayweather said as he scanned the audience, his question a familiar one. 
Mayweather shrugged. ''Al Haymon would never come up here,'' he added. ''Al Haymon is the Ghost.''
These are the Haymon basics: Harvard-educated; successful in live concert promotion, then television production, now boxing; extensive list of celebrity clients; a brother, Bobby, who once fought Sugar Ray Leonard; no office, no answering machine, no photographs, no interviews.
''Think of Al as the Wizard of Oz,'' said Phil Casey, one longtime partner in the music business. ''It's best not to try and figure him out.''
From Concert Stage to TV Screen
Haymon, 56, grew up in Cleveland and studied economics at Harvard, where he also earned a master's degree in business administration. He started promoting recording artists while still in school, and even financed his first show, which featured the violinist Jean-Luc Ponty, with student loans.
After college, Haymon returned to Cleveland and established a relationship with the O'Jays, growing especially close with Eddie Levert, the lead vocalist, and his son Gerald, an R&B singer. Haymon, Eddie Levert said, became ''almost like blood to us.''
Levert described Haymon as a momma's boy, and he meant it as a compliment. Early on, Haymon's mother, Emma Lou, helped him with promotions, and for her 70th birthday, they recreated their trip to Harvard for his freshman year.
Haymon eventually created 14 businesses, mostly to deal with myriad aspects of live concert promotion. Early on, he was partners with Casey, then head of urban contemporary music at International Creative Management.
Casey estimated they staged more than 1,000 concerts together. Their client roster included M. C. Hammer, New Edition, Whitney Houston and Mary J. Blige. They were, Casey said, among the first urban concert promoters to package several acts into a single tour, some of which ran for 300 days. They created the Budweiser Superfest, a concert series that ran from 1979 to 1999 and was revived in 2010.
Haymon and Casey turned an often haphazard business into an assembly-line production. They oversaw lighting, production, marketing and advertising, built an infrastructure, a total package, then plugged artists in. In 1992, Haymon, in a rare interview, told USA Today that they put on some 500 shows and grossed $60 million the year before.
''You could say the African-American concert world was divided in two camps: all the promoters who were trying to beat Al, and him,'' said Jack Boyle, then chairman of the concert giant SFX Entertainment's live music group.
By 1987, Haymon began to branch out. He co-promoted the ''Eddie Murphy Raw'' tour, working closely with Murphy and his stepfather, Vernon Lynch. Lynch's partner, Gregory Pai, said the tour was at that time the highest-grossing comedy tour and comedy film ever.
''Promotion is as much science as art, and Al was able to mix the two,'' Pai said. ''He understood the mechanics of the business. He was an optimizer, the Steve Jobs of promotion.''
Haymon glided easily among constituents, as comfortable with lawyers in a boardroom as with artists from the streets. He knew politics, literature and economics, but he also knew how to avoid controversy. He sent holiday gift baskets and doled out concert tickets.
As his concert business evolved, Haymon's reputation grew to include his propensity for putting on only the biggest, boldest shows, with back-to-back engagements up to 1,200 miles apart.
''If there's a tour now with long routes, still, people say, is that an Al Haymon tour?'' said Carl Freed, once executive director of the North American Independent Concert Promoters Association, which Haymon never joined.
In 1999, Haymon sold A. H. Enterprises to SFX Entertainment. The move, at the time, was typical, but the split was not. Haymon retained 50 percent and most of the creative control.
As R&B concert promotion gradually gave way to hip-hop and rap tours, Casey said, he and Haymon cut back. The problems with such tours -- fights backstage, shootings, bloated entourages -- were overdramatized, Casey added, ''But when they did happen, it was so disruptive.'' Casey recalled one incident, at a show in Boston, that resulted in a lawsuit and forced the cancellation of future events. They lost their building deposits and wasted their advertising money.
Haymon shifted into television production, where he encountered a skeptical Bob Levinson, the former head of the television department at I.C.M. Expecting someone in his 50s, Levinson was surprised by Haymon, still in his 30s.
''I know you don't like this,'' Levinson said Haymon told him. ''But tell me what to do, and I'll do it.''
Haymon, Levinson said, structured his initial deal so that he received little money up front, a tactic he later used in boxing. Haymon was expected to deliver perhaps one or two shows, but by the end of the first year, he had 13 projects under way. And in this writer-driven medium, he wrote none of them himself.
He is credited as a producer on 10 television shows, including, most recently, ''Grown Ups'' on UPN from 1999 to 2000. From there, he segued into boxing but kept his hand in music. These varied businesses, though, held much in common, like treating talent as commodities, and working months on a single event.
Kery Davis, HBO's senior vice president for sports programming, who also has a background in the music business, pointed to another crucial similarity among the industries Haymon penetrated.
''Very few barriers to entry,'' he said.
Entering a New Arena
Haymon stepped gingerly into boxing, around 2000; it is unclear exactly when. He first worked closely with one fighter, Vernon Forrest, and described his foray into pugilism as a hobby, nothing more.
Friends like Levert were concerned that Haymon ''was probably in over his head.'' But Haymon's only unease lay with his mother. Haymon told Levinson she did not approve of boxing. During fights, he sent siblings to her house to keep her occupied, so she would not accidentally see him on TV.
Haymon's small inner circle entered the boxing world with him. Sylvia Browne, his assistant, handled much of the day-to-day affairs. Sam Watson and his two sons represented the public face of Haymon's boxing enterprise, accompanying Haymon fighters into the ring.
Early on, Haymon tenaciously sought connections with the networks. He called Xavier James, the vice president for sports programming at HBO until 2004, at all hours daily, on three separate lines, and yet Haymon remained a mystery to James. Haymon penetrated boxing, James said, ''with a great deal of guile and almost no personal interaction.''
''If I wanted to,'' James said Haymon often told him, ''I could run boxing.''
Starting with Forrest, Haymon established his reputation as someone who maximized fighters' incomes, often at the expense of promoters. But his handling of fighters was not universally lauded.
Consider Lamon Brewster. Starting in 1999, he was bankrolled by Sam Simon, a boxing fan and a co-creator of ''The Simpsons.'' Simon said he paid Brewster about $50,000 annually on top of his fight purses and allowed Brewster to live rent-free in a house he owned.
Their relationship went beyond money, Simon said. So when Brewster defeated Wladimir Klitschko to capture the World Boxing Organization's heavyweight title in April 2004, Simon pronounced it ''the happiest night of my life,'' like ''having one horse and winning the Kentucky Derby.''
Soon after, Brewster talked about adding Haymon to the team as an adviser. He also began working with Don King. Simon said Haymon did not return his phone calls. At his next fight, five months later in Las Vegas, Brewster called Haymon and handed the phone to Simon. Haymon told Simon, ''You're out of a job.'' A contract was then slid under the door of Simon's hotel room. His commission had been reduced to 1 percent.
''It was like a bad boxing movie,'' Simon said. ''I blamed Haymon. I considered it the greatest betrayal of my life.''
Brewster responded to initial inquiries but ultimately was not available to comment. Through his lawyer, Haymon declined to answer questions.
Despite multiple eye operations and retinal tears, Brewster continued to fight, including four times in Germany, where the sport is regulated less stringently. Yet for one bout, in 2006 in Cleveland, Brewster submitted medical records in which the answers to three questions under Eye History, including blurred vision and surgical procedures, were ''No.''
The records were faxed to the Ohio Athletic Commission from A. Haymon Development.
When Brewster went to a party at Simon's house last December, few recognized him. To Simon, Brewster's left eye appeared vacant. Simon and others who know him worry that Brewster is going blind.
Promoter, Manager or Both?
Most major professional sports leagues vet athletes' representatives. In boxing, however, anyone can call himself an adviser, and lines are crossed often, without consequence. A fighter's representative once phoned Xavier James, the former HBO executive, from a correctional facility.
Haymon is licensed in Nevada as a manager, yet he also performs many of same functions as promoters, his associates said, putting him in a legal gray area and perhaps in violation of the Muhammad Ali Boxing Reform Act, passed in 2000.
Pat English, a prominent boxing lawyer who helped draft the legislation, said it was intended to clearly separate promoters and managers.
Promoters assume the financial risk for an event, select the site, rent the ring and pay insurance. The less they pay any one fighter, the more they make. The manager is beholden to an individual boxer, not the card. In practice, the two should act as a counterbalance.
Haymon, though, appears to operate as a hybrid, said James, Bob Arum of Top Rank Boxing, and seven others with direct knowledge of Haymon's business dealings who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution in future negotiations.
''I don't think it's a gray area; some do,'' James said. ''If you're acting like a promoter, you should be subject to regulations. You can't say, 'O.K., I'm benefiting fighters, so therefore I don't have to be in compliance.' ''
Others see such criticism as mere jealousy toward Haymon.
''He makes fighters the most money,'' said Jeff Wald, who helped create the reality TV series ''The Contender'' and worked with Haymon in boxing and entertainment. ''Of course everybody hates him. If I was a fighter, he's the first guy I'd go to.''
Showtime declined to comment about its dealings with Haymon.
Davis said HBO did not negotiate directly with Haymon. He said that ''it would be inaccurate to say we never talk to Al,'' but that the network makes boxing deals with promoters only.
Much of Haymon's influence is derived from his relationship with Mayweather. Haymon helped him maneuver out of his contract with Top Rank for $750,000. Mayweather became the biggest pay-per-view draw of his generation, made a professional wrestling cameo, appeared on ''Dancing With the Stars,'' all in part because of Haymon's influence. Boxing fans are craving a showdown between Mayweather and Pacquiao. The fate of that fight may rest with Haymon more than with any other person.
Richard Schaefer, the chief executive of Golden Boy Promoters, the company hired in recent years to promote Mayweather fights, called Haymon ''easily the smartest man I've ever met.''
Mayweather added, ''If I would have had Al Haymon from the beginning, I probably would be a billionaire right now.''
Haymon's power extends beyond Mayweather, though. He represents other prominent boxers, including Andre Berto, Paul Williams and Jermain Taylor, along with younger prospects like Adrien Broner and Gary Russell Jr. Haymon spreads those fighters among various promoters and steers clear of long-term contracts.
Berto is most often cited example of Haymon's reach. In January 2010, he was supposed to fight Shane Mosley but withdrew, citing the earthquake in his native Haiti. Mosley ended up fighting Mayweather, while Berto received a $1.5 million fee to fight Carlos Quintana in a mostly empty arena in Florida. Berto knocked him out.
This series of events profited Berto, Mosley, Mayweather and Haymon, none of whom complained, all of whom could say that Haymon did his job and then some. But fans and some of the sport's officials say boxing suffers from such lopsided matchups -- the most common complaint against Haymon.
''Al Haymon is an enterprising young man,'' King said. ''He goes in with the cheaper price, without the responsibility. He's not a bad guy. He seized an opportunity. He grasped the time. He chose fighters where he can pay less, not get more. But don't blame Al Haymon for bad fights. Blame the enablers around him.''
Silence Is Golden
Late last month, Haymon traveled to Cincinnati, where Broner decimated an overmatched opponent in three rounds to capture the W.B.O.'s vacant junior-lightweight belt. On the same card, Russell needed but one round to score a knockout. Two fights, four rounds.
Haymon was front and center on the HBO telecast. To some, this appeared strategic.
On one side of him sat Berto, whose rematch against Victor Ortiz will take place on Showtime, not HBO, early next year. On the other side of Haymon sat Mayweather, his diamond watch sparkling under the lights. This scene -- two easy victories over marginal opponents for his fighters; Haymon flanked by two prominent boxers he could shop to Showtime or to HBO --demonstrated his influence.
On that night, as on most nights, Haymon said nothing and somehow also said everything he needed to.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Al Haymon, once a music promoter, now guides Floyd Mayweather Jr. (SP1)
Al Haymon, center, with the W.B.C. welterweight champion Floyd Mayweather, right, at the Adrien Broner-Martin Rodriguez bout in Cincinnati last month.
 Broner, one of Haymon's young prospects, after knocking out Rodriguez to win the W.B.O. junior-lightweight title. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); EVENT MARKETING (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (87%); MUSIC (87%); INTERVIEWS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); POP & ROCK (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (62%); STUDENT LOANS (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (50%)

PERSON: WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); MANNY PACQUIAO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

 
