

801 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Vision for Transforming Hunters Point Comes Before Supervisors

BYLINE: By RICHARD C. PADDOCK

 BODY:
From the barren hilltop, you can see downtown San Francisco and the Bay Bridge, across the bay to Oakland and south to the San Mateo-Hayward Bridge. It is the kind of sweeping San Francisco view that could sustain million-dollar condominiums. 
 But this is Hunters Point, where a legacy of toxic waste and poverty has meant that change comes slowly.
For 10 years, city officials and the Lennar Corporation, a home builder based in Miami, have been preparing a far-reaching plan to replace the contaminated Hunters Point Naval Shipyard with one of the largest development projects the city has seen. 
 The $7 billion complex would stretch southwest to Candlestick Park and include 10,500 homes, 2.7 million square feet of commercial space and a million more of retail space, a performing arts theater and an artists' colony. 
 The 770-acre Lennar development is one of several projects changing the eastern face of the city, including the new Bay Terminal and its signature tower, the development of Mission Bay and the proposed transformation of Treasure Island, another Lennar project.
 Supporters say the Hunters Point project could take a disconnected section of the city -- whose remoteness was enhanced by decades of Navy occupation -- and draw it and its poorer residents into a closer embrace with the rest of the city.
 The project would also include 336 acres of waterfront parks, promenades, plazas, overlooks and play areas. Lennar says it would be San Francisco's largest park improvement project since the development of Golden Gate Park in the late 1800s. 
 On June 22, the Board of Supervisors is scheduled to consider whether to approve the environmental impact report for the site; approval would allow Lennar to go forward.
 When the Navy halted operations at the shipyard in 1974, the loss of jobs crippled the area and left a toxic mess that so far has cost $700 million in federal money to clean up.
 Critics question whether the cleanup is adequate and whether the developer's promises of job creation will be fulfilled. Environmentalists criticize the transportation plan, which includes construction of a bridge over an ecologically sensitive slough.
 The shipyard has been idle for 37 years, but some critics argue that Mayor Gavin Newsom and the Board of Supervisors need more time to get the plan right. 
 ''Shoving something of this magnitude through the eye of a needle is not the most effective thing for the mayor to do,'' said Saul Bloom, the chief executive of Arc Ecology, an environmental group that has been involved in Hunters Point since 1984.
 The board's president, David Chiu, said in an interview that approval of the complex plan remained uncertain. Mr. Chiu said he was concerned about the local residents' level of distrust of the developer and had not yet decided how to vote. 
 ''As a city, we are exploring ways to transform an industrial wasteland into a stable, modern, neighborhood community,'' he said. ''My part is to make sure we have a process where all voices are heard.''
 The 20-year project, which also includes Candlestick Point, calls for demolishing the 50-year-old Candlestick Park stadium and replacing it with stores, movie theaters, parks and homes. A new stadium would be built at Hunters Point if the San Francisco 49ers agreed to stay in the city.
 ''This is a really, really good project,'' said Michael Cohen, the city's director of economic development. ''Residents of Bayview-Hunters Point have been clamoring for change for decades. They ask, 'Why won't private capital invest in our neighborhood? Supermarkets and amenities are passing us by.' This project will provide those things.''
 Nevertheless, Mr. Cohen acknowledges that passage is not certain in a city where any building plan is suspect.
 ''Of course there will be opposition -- this is San Francisco,'' he said. ''We are the world's most participatory democracy, and this is a town that is notoriously skeptical of any form of development.''
 The site on San Francisco's southeast corner became a commercial shipyard in 1870. The Navy took it over in 1940 to create the Hunters Point Naval Shipyard. At its peak the shipyard employed 17,000 people, including many African-Americans who settled in Hunters Point and Bayview.
 The shipyard was crucial to the naval buildup during World War II. Shortly after the war, the Navy erected a huge crane to hoist battleship gun turrets and other heavy pieces. The crane, visible from miles away, would remain as a landmark under Lennar's plan. Similarly, the old docks would be incorporated into the waterfront park.
 Today, the Hunters Point Naval Shipyard looks like a ghost town. Buildings stand empty. The few people on the property are involved in the continuing cleanup or are among the sculptors, painters and photographers who created an improbable artists' colony in some of the shipyard buildings.
 The development project is headed by Kofi Bonner, a vice president at Lennar who spearheaded the redevelopment of Emeryville, which was also plagued by toxic waste. Mr. Bonner served as San Francisco's economic development director under Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. during the 1990s.
 Lennar's agreement with the city gives the company the right to develop and sell the land, but it must invest $2 billion in infrastructure and public works and meet other obligations, including providing low-cost housing and jobs for residents. 
 In 2008, more than 62 percent of city voters approved Proposition G, an advisory measure on the development concept. But some opposition remains. Christopher Muhammad, a Nation of Islam minister, is an outspoken critic who has accused Lennar of harming children in the neighborhood by stirring up dust during work on the site. Lennar and city officials say the claim is unfounded.
 Some are also concerned that the project will displace poor residents, just as many African-Americans were by redevelopment of the Fillmore and the Western Addition.
 Mr. Bonner pointed out that the shipyard had no residents and that Lennar would try to keep low-income people in the area by offering 32 percent of the homes, more than 3,000 units, at below-market prices. 
 Critics also question how many jobs will go to neighborhood residents. Lennar has said it expects to create 1,500 construction jobs a year during the 15-to-20-year building phase and more than 10,000 permanent jobs. The project will try to capitalize on interest in green technology, and a planned United Nations Global Compact Sustainability Center would be the centerpiece of its industrial park.
 Although the San Francisco 49ers are focused on plans to build a stadium in Santa Clara, Lennar and the city would have until 2014 to reach an agreement with the team to build a stadium in Hunters Point. 
 Transportation is one of the more difficult issues facing the project. No major roads lead from the shipyard to downtown or to Highway 101 -- or even connect Hunters and Candlestick Points. Lennar proposes building a 900-foot-long bridge over Yosemite Slough that would primarily serve rapid transit.
 Mr. Bloom and other critics say that construction of the bridge would jeopardize wildlife and that the route should be relocated. But Mr. Bonner said the bridge was essential in linking the outlying district with the rest of San Francisco. 
 ''The military was very good at isolating the base from the rest of the city,'' Mr. Bonner said. ''Our job is to reconnect the base back to the city.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hunters Point offers views of San Francisco and the Bay Bridge. Right now, the vistas are the province of construction workers, like the one above.
 Construction workers at the site, on the city's southeast corner, used an excavator to remove asphalt as part of a cleanup effort. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SHIPBUILDING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (76%); NAVIES (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (71%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (70%); THEATER (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LAYOFFS (63%); INTERVIEWS (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (62%)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (94%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (94%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010



802 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5476 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'APPROACHING ABSTRACTION,' through Sept. 5. Self-taught artists are noted for producing weird, wacky and otherwise eccentric objects. This exhibition of about 60 works from the museum's permanent collection proposes that the best of them are also adept abstractionists. Few works are nonrepresentational, and most have a vibe of strangeness, but almost every piece is as compelling for its form and technique as for its idiosyncratic imagery. 45 West 53rd Street , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20100429 
 ASIA SOCIETY MUSEUM: 'PILGRIMAGE AND BUDDHIST ART,' through June 20. This deftly shaped show, not especially large, spans vast swaths of land and time, from India to Japan and from the first century A.D. almost to the present. Materially it's cornucopian, with all manner of painting and sculpture and a camping store's worth of pilgrim travel gear: rucksacks for sutra scrolls, monastic hiking staffs and fanny-pack shrines, not to mention charts and maps -- some cosmic, some not. The show traces the Buddha's life and the circular path his wandering took between his birth and death in northern India. It also looks at the paths of those who followed him through the centuries and to this day. Some have traveled alone and quietly, others in lively packs. The action in a mural-size pilgrimage painting from 18th-century Nepal looks like a raucous scene from ''The Canterbury Tales'' set in the Kathmandu Valley. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)20100429
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KIKI SMITH: SOJOURN,' through Sept. 12. Kiki Smith's installation ''Sojourn'' was inspired by an 18th-century needlework, Prudence Punderson's ''First, Second and Last Scene of Mortality.'' There are rich ideas in that work, about the female life cycle and the life of the artist; to these Ms. Smith adds religious, mystical and personal symbolism. The installation's many drawings, peopled with women at various stages of life, can be quite affecting. But Ms. Smith has a tendency to sugarcoat death with craft: flowers, papier-mache, antique glass, gold and silver leaf and glitter everywhere. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20100429
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'PHANTOM SIGHTINGS: ART AFTER THE CHICANO MOVEMENT,' through May 9. This confusing show of works by Mexican-Americans who have come of age since the 1990s ranges from Victor Estrada's funky-surrealist paintings to Sandra de la Loza's high-concept installation of documents and a video dedicated to a historic site in Los Angeles. Margarita Cabrera's full-size, all-vinyl sculpture of a Volkswagen Beetle and Alejandro Diaz's distressed cardboard signs bearing handwritten messages like ''I beg to differ'' stand out, but a good case for the continued relevance of the identity-based show is not made. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem , (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Johnson)20100429
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM DULWICH PICTURE GALLERY,' through May 30. That any of the nine works in this sweet dream of an exhibition sent over from London could easily be mistaken for works from the Frick's own incomparable collection tells you all you need to know about the quality on display. Rembrandt's ''Girl at a Window'' (1645) is the star of the show. Jean-Antoine Watteau's ''Plaisirs du Bal'' (about 1717) is a poetic, happy-sad vision of privileged indolence. Gerrit Dou's Vermeerish ''Woman Playing a Clavichord'' (1665) is preternaturally lucid. Nicolas Poussin's ''Nurture of Jupiter'' (1636-37), in which the toddler-age future king of the gods suckles a goat while a nymph holds him in her lap in a rocky landscape, is otherworldly. 1 East 70th Street , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)20100429
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'HAUNTED: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY/VIDEO/PERFORMANCE,' through Sept. 6. Drawn primarily from the museum's permanent collection, this show haphazardly traces photography, photo appropriation and their offshoots, backtracking six decades to Warhol and Rauschenberg, when three would have sufficed. With few exceptions, the displays are liveliest when closest to the present, in film pieces by Douglas Gordon, Tacita Dean and beyond, as well as the work of younger artists who have devised ways to use appropriation, setup and regular photography (together or separately). Among those are Sarah Anne Johnson and Sara VanDerBeek. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)20100429
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'TWILIGHT VISIONS: SURREALISM, PHOTOGRAPHY AND PARIS,' through May 9. Considering how revolutionary Surrealist photography was back in the day, it may seem paradoxical that nostalgia would be the mood suffusing this resonant exhibition. But it makes sense. Caught in the throes of sweeping change in the cultural capital of the Western world, photographers like Andre Kertesz, Ilse Bing, Man Ray and others were as preoccupied with what was being lost as with what might be gained by modernization, and the images they made are darkly meditative. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Johnson)20100429
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'GRAPHIC HEROES, MAGIC MONSTERS: JAPANESE PRINTS BY UTAGAWA KUNIYOSHI FROM THE ARTHUR R. MILLER COLLECTION,' through June 13. Today's graphic novelists owe a huge debt of gratitude to Hokusai, Hiroshige and the artist featured in this engrossing show, Utagawa Kuniyoshi. With wonderful formal and technical ingenuity, Kuniyoshi created woodblock prints illustrating tales of martial conflict, high-seas adventure and mythic triumph and sold them in vast quantities to the 19th-century equivalents of manga and anime fans. He also made portraits of courtesans in fashionable clothes; comical montages of anthropomorphized cats and octopuses; and antic, pornographic cartoons. 333 East 47th Street , (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)20100429
 JEWISH MUSEUM: 'MODERN ART, SACRED SPACE: MOTHERWELL, FERBER AND GOTTLIEB,' through Aug. 1. The Millburn, N.J., Conservative synagogue Congregation B'nai Israel is renovating and expanding and has lent some of its art to the Jewish Museum for a small but inspiring exhibition. The synagogue commissioned three large artworks -- Adolph Gottlieb's Torah curtain, Herbert Ferber's exterior sculpture and Robert Motherwell's lobby mural -- for its midcentury Modernist building designed by the architect Percival Goodman. Temporarily installed and amply documented at the museum, they show off the mystical-spiritual side of Abstract Expressionism. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100429
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERING THE ART OF CHINESE PAINTING: XIE ZHILIU (1910-1997),' through Aug. 1. This philosophically intriguing exhibition presents drawings and paintings by Xie Zhiliu, a 20th-century Chinese artist and professor who was trained in traditional artistic methods in his youth. That meant primarily copying and tracing drawings and paintings by past masters. Xie's elegant but unimaginative copies are interesting mainly for what they reveal about how classical artists arrived at works of seemingly effortless perfection: not by observing nature but by repeatedly imitating other artists. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100429
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH ART DECO,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100429
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PLAYING WITH PICTURES: THE ART OF VICTORIAN PHOTOCOLLAGE,' through May 9. This seemingly modest, startlingly reverberant exhibition reveals that upper-class Englishwomen of the 1860s and '70s devised an early form of collage, the supposedly Cubist breakthrough. Adding cutout photographs of family, friends, royals and celebrities to the watercolor albums that were already an acceptable female activity, they created all kinds of witty effects -- drawing-room scenes, trompe l'oeil designs, human-animal hybrids. The effects of Darwinism and the publication of ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' register in these amazing works, as does the collective, even osmotic nature of invention. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100429
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'SIDE BY SIDE: OBERLIN'S MASTERWORKS AT THE MET,' through Aug. 29. Oberlin College's Allen Memorial Art Museum, now undergoing renovations, has sent 19 of its best paintings and one sculpture to the Met, and they are now hanging in various historically appropriate permanent collection galleries. Follow the map provided by the museum, and you will discover unfamiliar works by Turner, Cezanne, Kirchner, Rothko and others from the Oberlin collection, and you will also revisit many old favorites from the Met's. It makes for a great scavenger hunt. Bring the kids! (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100429
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100429
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'YOUNG ARCHER,' continuing. Is it or is it not? ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver, might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100429
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ROME AFTER RAPHAEL,' through May 9. This exhibition of 16th-century Italian drawings from the Morgan's collection covers a lot of ground. It moves, in fits and starts, from the High Renaissance to Mannerism and the nascent Baroque. And it's enlivened by the classic match of Raphael versus Michelangelo; drawings by both artists, and their followers, pit Raphael's sprezzatura, or relaxed refinement, against Michelangelo's vein-popping muscularity. Look for drawings by Parmigianino (in Raphael's camp) and the sumptuous Farnese Hours by Giulio Clovio (in Michelangelo's), in addition to splendid Late Mannerist studies by Annibale Carracci. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20100429
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'HENRI CARTIER-BRESSON: THE MODERN CENTURY,' through June 28. Rarely has the phrase ''man of the world'' been more aptly applied than to the protean photojournalist Henri Cartier-Bresson, the subject of a large and handsome MoMA retrospective. For much of his long career, which began in the 1930s and officially ended three decades before his death in 2004, he was continually on the move, covering the better part of five continents, usually sending his film to various publishers and agencies for developing and editing. Many of his individual pictures are rightfully classics: those taken in the aftermath of World War II in Europe; at Gandhi's funeral; in China on the eve of the revolution. MoMA carefully mixes pictures chronologically, as if to avoid a comparison of Cartier-Bresson's daring in his early work and his later weakness for sentimentality and stereotypes, but the lack of cumulative moral and emotional intensity in the career, and in the show, is evident. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100429
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARINA ABRAMOVIC: THE ARTIST IS PRESENT,' through May 31. The long-building energy wave of performance art hits MoMA with this four-decade survey of work by one of the form's more visible and magnetic figures. And the show's combination of stressed-out bare flesh on film and live bodies, some nude, in the galleries makes pretty radical fare for the museum. The exhibition is part true endurance-test grit, part pure diva hokum. And it comes with a mission: to demonstrate that it is possible to preserve an ephemeral medium through live re-creations of past work in a museum setting. The demonstration falls flat, but Ms. Abramovic herself is performing a new piece. It consists of her sitting absolutely still and staring straight ahead in MoMA's atrium for almost the entire time the museum is open during the show's run, an estimated 716 hours and 30 minutes, all told. Visitors are invited to participate by taking a seat across from her and meeting her gaze. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100429
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 7: MIRAGE BY JOAN JONAS,' through May 31. It helps to think of time as cyclical, or at least non-Western and nonlinear, when encountering Joan Jonas's ''Mirage'' at MoMA. The latest installation of a piece conceived in 1976, it suggests that Ms. Jonas's art has a longer-than-usual life span because it's constantly being reborn. In its current form, ''Mirage'' consists of six moving-image works arranged in a loose circle and accompanied by a series of props: metal cones, chalkboards, a mask and a wooden hoop, among other objects. Performance, drawing, dance and video combine and recombine in arcane but thrilling ways. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20100429
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: PICASSO: 'THEMES AND VARIATIONS,' through Aug. 30. This subtly excellent show brings together about 120 prints from the museum's collection, nimbly accounting for many of the pinnacles of Picasso's crafty exploration of the various print mediums. It also parses numerous themes -- Saltimbanques, wives and mistresses, Cubist nudes, hommages to the old masters, the burly Minotaur -- and includes stunning recent acquisitions. Revealing as much about the printmaking processes as about Picasso's freewheeling involvement with them, it casts a wide net and arranges its catch with penetrating clarity. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100429
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: FIVE THEMES,' through May 17. This well-designed exhibition of prints, drawings, films and film installations from the last 30 years showcases this artist's dazzling fusion of charcoal drawing and stop-action animation to excellent effect. The 1990 animations that meditate on the ravages of apartheid remain especially powerful. As the show traces a kind of progression away from, and back to, political subject matter, through a gallery that offers a dreamlike visit to his studio, it also traces his growing role in his own work, first as image, then as actor. And with a forthrightness that is almost touching, the exhibition also confirms that in the contest between still and moving images, moving almost always wins. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100429
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: '185TH ANNUAL: AN INVITATIONAL EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN ART,' through June 8. This year the National Academy's Annual has been pared down to 65 artists from the usual 120 or so. Reduced finances are to blame, but happily this juried exhibition doesn't suffer. Quality is high over all, and congestion has been minimized. Painting dominates, as always here, but with everything from photorealism to geometric abstraction, the show still feels rich in variety. The lineup includes the Chelsea habitues Dana Schutz, Ghada Amer and the fast-rising Alison Elizabeth Taylor, whose impressive marquetry work graces a marbled alcove. National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)20100429
 NEW MUSEUM: 'SKIN FRUIT: SELECTIONS FROM THE DAKIS JOANNOU COLLECTION,' through June 6. This exhibition of works from the collection of a New Museum trustee selected and installed by the art star Jeff Koons might conceivably have pulled a rabbit out of its ethically sticky headgear. Instead it teems with usual suspects, and its overcrowding benefits no one, especially the several larger, more admittedly festivalist works that form its high points. This museum has some rethinking to do, and high on the list should be coming to grips with the size and limitations of its often poorly proportioned galleries. Ultimately the air of complicity is less disturbing than the look of complacency. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20100429
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary in 2010, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20100429
 SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'A SONG FOR THE HORSE NATION,' through July 7, 2011. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing and beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20100429
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'COLLECTING BIENNIALS,' through Nov. 28. Start your Whitney Biennial experience on the fifth floor, with this permanent-collection show of works by artists who were in past Annuals and Biennials. It caps off an extravaganza of new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the sense that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20100429
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: '2010 WHITNEY BIENNIAL,' through May 30. In the spirit of the economically bleak two years it represents, the Whitney has made efforts to underpitch its 2010 Biennial, and the show lives up -- and down -- to its billing. There are fewer artists than in the past. Its installation is spartan. Spectacle is out. Much of what's in is quiet and hermetic to the point of looking blank. The prevailing aesthetic is the art of the tweak, minute variations on conventional forms and historical styles: abstract paintings stitched like quilts, performance pieces channeling the 1960s, and so on. The show feels empty where it reflects the retrenched, art-about-art spirit of the moment. But it also has strong work, particularly in video and photography, that speaks of life beyond the art factory. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20100429
 Galleries: Uptown
 OTTO DIX, through Aug. 30. The first Dix retrospective in this country provides heady glimpses of the achievement of this so-called wild man of German art. Few things escaped his remorseless eye -- from the horrors of World War I to the hypocrisies of the Weimar Republic. He made every stop on the itinerary of German modernism (including Realism, Dada, Surrealism, Expressionism, folk, visionary), had a few Cubist moments and, of course, qualified as degenerate under the Nazis. This exhibition of more than 100 paintings, prints, watercolors and drawings (organized with the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts) doesn't have the scope -- or the space -- to do Dix justice, but it begins to make up for lost time. Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20100429
 ROBERT & ETHEL SCULL: 'PORTRAIT OF A COLLECTION,' through May 27. Racing from Abstract Expressionist paintings to Earthworks, this unforgivably crowded exhibition conveys the amazing instinct for the new, the next new and the next new after that that set Robert Scull, and his wife, Ethel, on one of the most influential shopping sprees in postwar American art -- until they cashed out with the 1973 Scull auction at Sotheby Parke-Bernet. In tandem with its detailed, must-read catalog, the show counts as ''It's a Wonderful Life'' for the art world. Attempting to rehabilitate the collectors most synonymous with the Swinging '60s, it demonstrates what a difference one or two people can make. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street , (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com. (Smith)20100429
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'CELEBRATING THE MUSE: WOMEN IN PICASSO'S PRINTS, 1905-1968,' through May 8. This venture is pretty much girls, girls, girls: the artist's wives and mistresses, along with mythological goddesses, unnamed models and their more sexualized counterparts -- mantilla-topped majas in various degrees of undress. Underscoring what may have been the artist's chief obsession, it has a nearly overwhelming wildness of its own, including large swaths of the brilliantly varied ''Suite Vollard'' of 1933 -- especially the ''sculptor's studio'' sequence -- and ''Suite 347,'' an etching marathon from 1968. But there is much, much more, including wonderful linocuts of Picasso's second and final wife, the long-suffering Jacqueline. Marlborough Gallery, 40 West 57th Street , (212) 541-4900, marlboroughgallery.com. (Smith)20100429
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'BLOOD OF SPACE: DRAWINGS BY DAVID CHAIM SMITH,' through May 15. Inspired by the Kabbalah, alchemy and other mystical systems, Mr. Smith creates densely worked, diagrammatic drawings that look as if they'd been made by a Renaissance-era occultist. His semi-abstract, symmetrical compositions in pencil and ink feature an interplay between narrow crisscrossing, circular and serpentine bands and gnarly, rootlike systems. Finely printed words add philosophy reminiscent of the sentiments printed on Dr. Bronner's soap bottles. Cavin-Morris Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street , (212) 226-3768, cavinmorris.com. (Johnson)20100429
 Galleries: SoHo
 JOSEF ALBERS/KEN PRICE, through June 5. Pairing a German abstract painter and color theorist, Josef Albers (1888-1976), and a ceramic sculptor, Ken Price (born 1935), is a bit of curatorial genius that can make your eyes feel attached to a bigger, better brain. An intricate dovetailing of works spanning several mediums and decades clarifies their individual greatness. The shared passion for strong color juxtapositions is to be expected. Less so are those for Modern architecture, pre-Columbian pyramids, stones, interior spaces (variously erotic, domestic or symbolic) and an oscillation between biomorphic and straight-edged form. Anyone interested in the curatorial arts should see this thrilling show, among the best and most timely to grace a New York commercial gallery. Brooke Alexander Gallery, 59 Wooster Street , (212) 925-4338, baeditions.com. (Smith)20100429
 JOSEF ALBERS: 'FORMULATION: ARTICULATION, 1972,' through May 8. This headlong plunge into all things Albers presents a portfolio of 127 silk-screen works that sums up his art and thought to a remarkable degree -- especially if you read the ''Statements of Content'' explaining each motif. A horizontal installation aids absorption, which can transform your understanding of both Albers in particular and abstraction in general, revealing it to be, unexpectedly, an art of everyday life. Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street , (212) 343-0441, peterblumgallery.com. (Smith)20100429
 Last Chance
 MILTON AVERY: 'INDUSTRIAL REVELATIONS'; closes on Saturday. This knockout exhibition is the first exhaustive look at the artist's depictions of New York City's waterways, bridges and railroad yards from the late 1920s and early '30s, a period most associated with his portraits. But here he is out in the open, already summoning the deft abbreviations of form, space and light that would dominate his mature, far more pastoral landscapes. With more than three dozen works -- one-third of them oils -- this show provides an exciting new view of Avery's development and reminds us that his many-splendored achievement is still not fully visible. Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street , (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com. (Smith)20100429
 DONALD BAECHLER; closes on Saturday. One of the boy wonders of 1980s painting-collage-drawing pursues his distinctive fusion of Americana and popular culture. This time his enlarged coloring-book-like drawings of generic if loaded motifs -- among them a skull, a rose, a globe and a soccer ball -- are painted-over (sometimes collaged) surfaces splashed and splattered with paint. The backgrounds make what might be called coded references to Julian Schnabel's tarpaulins or Color Field painting but also the workmanlike nature of the artist's process. The results are, as usual, seductive and remarkably unaffected, but they also look easier than they are. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-7727, cheimread.com. (Smith)20100429
 FREDDIE BRICE; closes on Saturday. Using wide brushes and mostly black and white house paint on thin pieces of plywood, Brice made paintings notable for their spontaneity, economy of means and comical, enigmatic imagery. Born in South Carolina in 1920, he moved to Harlem at 9. There is a childlike immediacy and simplicity about his self-taught style. The star of the show is the white-spotted black snake biting its own tail. KS Art, 73 Leonard Street, TriBeCa , (212) 219-9918, kerryschuss.com. (Johnson)20100429
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'TO LIVE FOREVER: ART AND THE AFTERLIFE IN ANCIENT EGYPT,' through Sunday. Drawing from its own world-class collection of Egyptian art and artifacts, the Brooklyn Museum has assembled an exhibition exploring all facets of the Egyptian funerary industry. It's not a blockbuster, but it is fascinating. It presents more than 100 objects, from massive stone sarcophagus covers and elaborately decorated wooden coffins to little statuettes and elegant ink drawings on sheets of papyrus. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100429
 ANDRE BUTZER, 'NICHT FURCHTEN! DON'T BE SCARED!'; closes on Saturday. In his second gallery solo in New York, this young German painter continues the cartoonizing exploration of 1980s Neo-Expressionism, but here with thicker paint and noticeable improvement. In the most characteristic works, Ensor's giant stingray, Bacon's side of beef or a bright blue cousin of Casper the Friendly Ghost are slapped onto bright patchwork abstractions. Other works broach pure abstraction and even the dreaded monochrome, rendered as a thick, loamlike field of black that seems ready for plowing. There is nothing to be afraid of here, but Mr. Butzer has definitely increased interest in what he does next. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com. (Smith)20100429
 'JANET CARDIFF & GEORGE BURES MILLER'; closes on Saturday. Few artists work with sound more inventively and with a cannier sense of theater than the Canadians Janet Cardiff and George Bures Miller. The main attraction here is ''The Carnie,'' an antique children's carousel in a dark room that looks like something you'd encounter in a ''Twilight Zone'' episode. As it revolves, speakers broadcast ominous, cacophonous modern music by the electronic composer Freida Abtan. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-9100, luhringaugustine.com. (Johnson)20100429
 BARBARA KRUGER: 'THE GLOBE SHRINKS'; closes on Saturday. In this transitional show Ms. Kruger, a leading Pictures artist, pushes her characteristic fusion of text and image into a four-sided video-slide bombardment of sight and sound that lasts 12 minutes and feels unresolved. Intimations of violence, Hollywood pretentiousness, testosterone overload and gendered voices abound; art gallery visitors are directly addressed. The best moment is the she-said/he-shouted driving sequence, obviously shot in a canyon somewhere near Los Angeles. Mary Boone Gallery, 541 West 24th Street, Chelsea , (212) 752-2929, maryboonegallery.com. (Smith)20100429
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'DEMONS AND DEVOTION: THE HOURS OF CATHERINE OF CLEVES'; closes on Sunday. The need for new bindings creates the rare, maybe one-time chance to see 93 of the 157 surviving miniatures from the extraordinary illuminated book of hours commissioned around 1440 by Catherine of Cleves (1417-79) in the southern Netherlands. Among the masterpieces of a golden age by an anonymous artist known only as the Master of Catherine of Cleves, it features exquisite, jewel-like miniatures that locate the Holy Family, apostles and saints in the here and now, among detailed interiors and landscapes and trompe l'oeil borders. The kingdom of God gives way to that of the real. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20100429
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'BIGGER, BETTER, MORE: THE ART OF VIOLA FREY'; closes on Sunday. Viola Frey's giant ceramic sculptures of men and women are among the underappreciated wonders of late-20th-century art. Rising 11 feet and higher, wearing business suits and ties or nondescript dresses, they have a spookily imposing physical presence and a clunky, cartoonish ugliness. With their blank or seemingly angry expressions, they may remind you of what it was like to be a child among grown-ups troubled by incomprehensible problems. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100429
 PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART: 'PICASSO AND THE AVANT-GARDE IN PARIS'; closes on Sunday. Size alone does not a blockbuster make. That's the lesson of ''Picasso and the Avant-Garde in Paris,'' a sprawling show but one that's engineered around the permanent collection and oddly lacking in major canvases by its marquee artist. If you can look past Picasso, though, there's an edifying exhibition here. In essence it's an inclusive and idiosyncratic history of Cubism from 1905 to 1945, one with many twists, subplots and supporting characters. Don't miss the gallery recreating the 1912 Salon d'Automne, packed with Cubo-Futurist masterpieces by Duchamp and others. Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street, Philadelphia, P.A. , (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100429
 'YOUR HISTORY IS NOT OUR HISTORY'; closes on Saturday. Ambitious title aside, the intent of this exhibition remains fairly murky. It has been organized by David Salle and Richard Phillips, painters from different generations, and seems to want to (correctly) reconcile the much exaggerated 1980s divide between Pictures art and Neo-Expressionism, both of which variously used or ignored the idea of appropriation. Still, the show provides a wonderful opportunity to see works from the 1980s, among some outstanding efforts by artists as different as Julian Schnabel, Laurie Simmons, Jeff Koons and Mr. Salle himself. There's plenty left to be shown and told: Let the 1980s revisionism begin. Haunch of Venison, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, at 49th Street , (212) 259-0000, haunchofvenison.com. (Smith)20100429
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RELIGION (74%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); HIKING (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (90%); NEPAL (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010



803 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Turmoil Builds at Aspen Music Festival and School

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
The tensions that have simmered at the Aspen Music Festival and School in Colorado since the resignation of its music director, David Zinman, on April 8, boiled over on Thursday, when the festival corporation delivered a vote of no confidence in the festival's president and chief executive officer, Alan Fletcher. 
 This is only the latest swing in the fortunes of Mr. Fletcher, who was fired by the executive committee of the board of trustees last October only to be rehired by the full board in November.
 A majority of the 147-member corporation, which consists of 90 faculty members, 37 board members and 20 members at large, passed the motion of no confidence, said Rob LeBuhn, the board chairman. He declined to give numbers, saying that the vote was confidential.
 The vote has no binding effect on the 50-member board, which controls hiring and firing. ''We will only know what the practical effects are later,'' Mr. LeBuhn said.
 Mr. Fletcher, whose contract runs through September, does not expect sudden action either, he said in a separate interview. ''I'm in the middle of a regular evaluation,'' he added, ''and the board will need to take this into account.''
 But one immediate effect is to poison further an already toxic atmosphere at the venerable institution -- with Tanglewood, one of the most prestigious combinations of summer music school and performance festival in the United States -- as it approaches its 61st season. The season opens on July 1.
 The animosity toward Mr. Fletcher stems largely from his attempts to scale down the institution -- reducing the number of students and faculty this year, and cutting the season from nine weeks to eight -- at least partly in response to the general economic malaise. The faculty cuts in particular, with 11 jobs lost in the end, inflamed the resident artists, notably including Mr. Zinman, who not only conducted concerts but directed the American Academy of Conducting at Aspen, which he founded in 2000 with Robert J. Harth, a beloved former president of the festival.
 It was not only the cuts that rankled but -- for some, at least -- the way Mr. Fletcher carried them out. Some faulted his personal manner, deemed cool and aloof; others, his timing, since he informed artists before the festival last summer that they would not have jobs this summer. 
 His defenders describe his manner as intellectual and a bit abstract rather than cold and note that the timing of those notifications gave the artists that much more time to seek work for this summer. By all accounts, in any case, the institution is now a house bitterly divided.
 ''The vote shows the divisions that exist and that need to be brought together,'' Mr. LeBuhn said.
 Mr. Fletcher could hardly disagree. But the mending of fences, however crucial, is only one of his pressing concerns, as he continues to search for a permanent replacement for Mr. Zinman (having already found substitutes for the vacated concerts this summer) and to prepare for the new season.
 ''We have lots of work to do,'' Mr. Fletcher said, ''and we're moving ahead with it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010



804 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Leadership Presses to Expand Political Influence

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS

 BODY:
When United States Representative Luis V. Gutierrez harshly criticized Gov. Patrick J. Quinn in an off-the-cuff speech early this week that recalled his cocksure political origins, the outburst said as much about roiling disagreements in the Hispanic political community as it did any substantive appraisal of Mr. Quinn's record in office.
 ''We must remember there is an election in November, and those that don't respond to the needs of our community need not come and seek our vote and seek our support for their elected office,'' Mr. Gutierrez said at a rally Monday of more than 100 supporters in the Little Village neighborhood. The remark capped a blistering discourse that singled out Mr. Quinn for not appointing any Hispanic cabinet members and for hiring a disproportionately small share of Hispanics in state government.
 Mr. Gutierrez's stark criticism comes as national attention is focused on Hispanic issues because of a controversial new immigration law in Arizona and as Mr. Obama promises to press lawmakers to work on a comprehensive bill to overhaul the country's immigration system. The congressman's remarks also bring to the surface an emerging debate within Chicago's fast-growing Hispanic community over what exactly they hope to gain as their numbers and political influence increase. 
 Mr. Gutierrez -- who earned the nickname ''The Little Rooster'' in part for his flamboyant speeches during the turbulent 1980s at Chicago's City Hall -- argued that Hispanics should judge Mr. Quinn and other Illinois politicians mainly on how many Hispanics they appoint to government jobs.
 Other leaders say Hispanics, who now make up more than 15 percent of the state's population, should focus on something broader than the old Chicago arithmetic of doling out jobs along ethnic lines. Public officials should address substantive issues like crime, unemployment and education, these leaders say.
 The debate also exposes how Mr. Gutierrez is jockeying to get more spoils of Democratic power, even as rivals like Juan Rangel and his United Neighborhood Organization have forged close ties to the governor and to Mayor Richard M. Daley.
 Critics of Mr. Gutierrez dismissed his recent attacks as mere rhetoric intended to save the jobs of his political allies who were appointed by former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich.
 ''This sounds like political posturing from some of the Blagojevich faction of Latinos who feel that they are losing out on power,'' said Mr. Rangel, chief executive of the United Neighborhood Organization.
 Mr. Rangel's group stands to receive $98 million from the state to build new charter schools in Latino neighborhoods where public schools are overcrowded. Another $44 million is earmarked for other charter school operators that cater primarily to Hispanic students. Mr. Rangel said such initiatives are more important to Hispanics than whether they see faces like their own in top state posts.
 ''We have to look at real issues in our neighborhoods and bring solutions, not the same old politics,'' Mr. Rangel said. ''This should not be about, 'Can you take care of my guys?'
 ''We need to be thinking much broader than that. We have bigger problems than whether one person or another keeps his job with the state, and this is distracting from real issues.''
 A spokeswoman for the governor noted that Mr. Quinn has appointed Hispanics to head the Illinois Commerce Commission, the state's human rights board and a panel on improving education in Illinois.
 ''He has strong relationships with Latino elected officials,'' said the spokeswoman, Mica Matsoff. ''We are confident they will work and fight for the governor as we head toward November.''
 Mr. Gutierrez's criticism of the governor coincided with the congressman's rebukes of President Obama for not carrying out his campaign promise to try to change the nation's immigration laws. Inaction on that issue in Washington, he said, created the environment for the new anti-immigrant law in Arizona. The law, which gives the police the authority to detain people they suspect as illegal immigrants, has prompted protest rallies across the nation.
 But at Monday's rally, Mr. Gutierrez and other local Hispanic leaders complained primarily about the governor. They said Hispanics accounted for only 218 of 3,681 hires by the state's largest departments last year.
 ''It's getting more and more frustrating as I have to deal with people in this administration,'' Mr. Gutierrez said, ''people who I feel have a disregard for me also and for this community and its power and its influence. I hope this is a wake-up call.''
 Two aides to the governor, Jack Lavin and Billy Ocasio, stared grimly or scribbled notes while the congressman capped the rally with a 15-minute attack on their boss. Mr. Lavin, the governor's chief operating officer, did not dispute the numbers that showed Hispanics making up less than 6 percent of hires by the state in 2009.
 ''We've made some progress,'' Mr. Lavin told the crowd. ''There is a lot more progress we have to make.''
 Also at the rally was Juan Ochoa, one of the highest-ranking Hispanics in Illinois as the chief executive of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority, which manages McCormick Place. But Mr. Ochoa was there to back up Mr. Gutierrez's statements, not to defend the governor.
 ''I don't know how a Democratic governor can win this election without the complete support of the Latino community,'' Mr. Ochoa said. ''Friends have a responsibility to tell the truth. Better now than in October.''
 Mr. Gutierrez said he feared that Mr. Ochoa would soon lose his job. There have been longstanding problems at the pier, which has lost market share in the convention trade to Las Vegas and Orlando, Fla.
 Mr. Gutierrez said he was speaking out because he hoped to avert Mr. Ochoa's losing his job. He criticized the governor, saying that he goes to ''fund-raisers of the speaker of the House that wants to destroy our community, but I haven't heard him once stand up and defend Juan Ochoa.''
 Mr. Gutierrez did not specify how he felt that Michael J. Madigan, Illinois's House speaker, had damaged Hispanics, and a spokesman for Mr. Madigan declined to respond to the congressman's remarks.
 Mr. Gutierrez, 56, long ago earned his Little Rooster nickname for his modest physical stature and his pugnacious style. He has also developed a reputation as a politician who can switch allegiance quickly and not always irreversibly.
 A few years ago, with corruption cases rocking City Hall, the congressman said Mayor Daley was distracted from improving schools by ''less important priorities,'' like working on the bid for the 2016 Olympics. He briefly flirted with challenging Mr. Daley's re-election attempt, but ended up heartily endorsing the mayor's re-election in 2007.
 Mr. Gutierrez's recent outspokenness contrasts with his reluctance to discuss his relationship with Calvin Boender, a businessman and top campaign donor who was convicted in March of bribing a Chicago alderman. Mr. Boender had lent $200,000 to Mr. Gutierrez, who lobbied Mayor Daley to support Mr. Boender's real estate project on the West Side.
 Nevertheless, said David Yepsen, director of the Paul Simon Policy Institute at Southern Illinois University, criticism from the state's top Hispanic elected official is something that Mr. Quinn would be unwise to ignore. Mr. Yepsen said that Mr. Quinn could be damaged in a tight race if Hispanics voted for him in lower numbers than expected.
 ''It's going to be a bad year for Democrats,'' Mr. Yepsen said, ''and Pat Quinn really needs votes of the Democratic base, including women and Latinos.''
 At Mi Tierra restaurant in Little Village, the congressman's cheering supporters relished the spectacle of Mr. Gutierrez's gesturing animatedly and bouncing between English and Spanish during his unscripted dressing-down of the governor's aides. His high-decibel language competed effortlessly against the mariachis playing in the main dining room.
 The lack of a Hispanic in the governor's cabinet, Mr. Gutierrez said, is ''a situation that is intolerable and one that must be corrected immediately.''
Correction: May 7, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Friday about Hispanic politics and Illinois state government referred incorrectly to a decrease in convention trade. The decline has been felt at McCormick Place, which is the city's convention center, and not at Navy Pier. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Luis V. Gutierrez attacked Gov. Patrick J. Quinn on Monday over jobs for Hispanics. Quinn aides listened silently.
 Hispanics at the Gutierrez rally heard a blistering speech. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); POLITICS (77%); MAYORS (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); IMMIGRATION (67%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (60%)

PERSON: LUIS V GUTIERREZ (91%); PAT QUINN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010



805 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IRAN REFORMIST RECRUITS WORKERS AND TEACHERS
 The Iranian opposition leader Mir Hussein Moussavi released a video statement calling on workers and teachers to join the reformist cause, in a bold new attempt to broaden and energize the country's flagging protest movement. PAGE A6 
 SHANGHAI'S TURN IN SPOTLIGHT 
 The World's Fair may have lost some luster, but China has spent $45 billion -- even more than it spent to remake Beijing for the 2008 Summer Olympics -- to mount an elaborate World Expo in Shanghai. PAGE A4
 U.S. AND NATO SEEK TREATY
 The United States and NATO are seeking to revive a major treaty on conventional weapons in Europe. They also plan to invite Russia to join the ballistic missile shield planned for Europe. PAGE A6 
 CHILDREN STABBED IN CHINA
 An unemployed man entered a kindergarten in eastern China and stabbed 28 students and three adults, critically wounding at least five children. PAGE A9 
 DENIAL BY CHECHEN LEADER
 Chechnya's president denied accusations by the Austrian government that he was involved in the shooting death last year in Vienna of a Chechen whistle-blower. PAGE A10 
 Obituaries
 EVELYN CUNNINGHAM, 94
 As a journalist, Ms. Cunningham covered many of the biggest events during the civil rights era, a time when very few women worked at newspapers. PAGE A16 
 National
 IN NEW HEALTH LAW, ACTIONS SHIFT TO THE STATES
 The fight over the new health care law moved to the state level, as some governors claimed federal money to run a new high-risk insurance pool, while officials in other states said that they would not operate the program. PAGE A15
 IMMIGRATION BILL OUTLINED
 A coalition of top Senate Democrats laid out the contours of an overhaul of immigration laws -- and asked Republicans to help pursue it -- even as doubts mounted about the prospects of winning approval of legislation this year. PAGE A12
 F.D.A. BACKS CANCER DRUG
 The Food and Drug Administration approved the first treatment that uses a so-called cancer vaccine, a drug that trains the immune system to fight the disease. The drug, Provenge, was approved to treat advanced prostate cancer. PAGE A13
 OBAMA COMPARES COURTS
 In a seeming rejection of liberal orthodoxy, President Obama likened recent rulings by the Supreme Court to past decisions considered liberal victories, suggesting that in both cases justices made the error of eschewing judicial restraint. PAGE A15
 New York
 IN JAIL, A HATE CRIME KILLER DOES NOT ACT SO HATEFUL
 Jeffrey Conroy, who was found guilty of first-degree manslaughter as a hate crime in connection with the stabbing death of an immigrant, says he is ''not this serious racist kid everyone thinks I am.'' PAGE A19
 Business
 MOTOROLA AND PALM TAKE DIVERGING PATHS
 For much of this decade, the fates of Palm and Motorola were intertwined. Not anymore. Palm is being absorbed by Hewlett-Packard, while Motorola just made an unexpected profit, thanks to shipments of Android-based smartphones. PAGE B1
 PUERTO RICO'S BANKS STRUGGLE
 The latest American banking crisis is taking shape in Puerto Rico, the Caribbean commonwealth whose banks have been laid low by economic woes that make the mainland's recession seem mild. PAGE B1
 UNITED-CONTINENTAL TALKS
 United Airlines and Continental Airlines are in discussions on a merger after making progress on the transaction's price, and a deal could be unveiled as soon as Monday, people briefed on the matter said. PAGE B2
 CONGRESS SETS AUTO HEARING
 Congress will hold its first hearings next week on proposed legislation that would strengthen the enforcement powers of federal auto regulators, and require automakers to install a series of safety features on their vehicles. PAGE B3
 Sports
 WHILE THE FAVORITES SLIP, EVERYMAN FINDS TRACTION
 The No. 1-ranked golfer in the world could barely find a fairway. The No. 2-ranked player was ill and stumbled at the finish. Then there was Bo Van Pelt, a rank-and-file golfer. He played a flawless round to grab the first-round lead in the Quail Hollow Championship. PAGE B11
 Weekend
 LAUGHING AT THE CLOWNS, BUT WHO WILL LAUGH LAST?
 After representing the horrorcore rap scene for nearly two decades, Insane Clown Posse has gone mainstream, but perhaps not in a good way. An onslaught of Internet videos have ridiculed the group. PAGE C1
 Business
 MOTOROLA AND PALM TAKE DIVERGING PATHS
 For much of this decade, the fates of Palm and Motorola were intertwined. Not anymore. Palm is being absorbed by Hewlett-Packard, while Motorola just made an unexpected profit, thanks to shipments of Android-based smartphones. PAGE B1
 PUERTO RICO'S BANKS STRUGGLE
 The latest American banking crisis is taking shape in Puerto Rico, the Caribbean commonwealth whose banks have been laid low by economic woes that make the mainland's recession seem mild. PAGE B1
 UNITED-CONTINENTAL TALKS
 United Airlines and Continental Airlines are in discussions on a merger after making progress on the transaction's price, and a deal could be unveiled as soon as Monday, people briefed on the matter said. PAGE B2
 CONGRESS SETS AUTO HEARING
 Congress will hold its first hearings next week on proposed legislation that would strengthen the enforcement powers of federal auto regulators, and require automakers to install a series of safety features on their vehicles. PAGE B3
 Sports
 WHILE THE FAVORITES SLIP, EVERYMAN FINDS TRACTION
 The No. 1-ranked golfer in the world could barely find a fairway. The No. 2-ranked player was ill and stumbled at the finish. Then there was Bo Van Pelt, a rank-and-file golfer. He played a flawless round to grab the first-round lead in the Quail Hollow Championship. PAGE B11
 Weekend
 LAUGHING AT THE CLOWNS, BUT WHO WILL LAUGH LAST?
 After representing the horrorcore rap scene for nearly two decades, Insane Clown Posse has gone mainstream, but perhaps not in a good way. An onslaught of Internet videos have ridiculed the group. PAGE C1
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); CANCER (87%); LIBERALISM (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); APPROVALS (86%); CANCER DRUGS (85%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (84%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%); MANSLAUGHTER (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); OLYMPICS (71%); DEATHS (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%); US FDA APPROVALS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); VACCINES (69%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (67%); SHOOTINGS (67%); WRITERS (66%); MEN'S HEALTH (65%); VERDICTS (64%); PROSTATE DISEASE (64%); PROSTATE CANCER (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (56%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) CHINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010



806 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8:30 P.M. (13, 49) NOW ON PBS Two august news magazines bid farewell, starting with ''Now on PBS,'' which presents a compilation of major moments, an examination of innovative solutions to economic hardships and a glimpse of the faces behind the fight for health care reform. Before signing off, ''Bill Moyers Journal,'' at 9, travels to Iowa for a look at a populist revival and a discussion with the radio commentator Jim Hightower about how ordinary people can reclaim the country. Mr. Moyers, above, closes the episode by interviewing Barry Lopez, the author of ''Arctic Dreams'' and ''Of Wolves and Men,'' about nature, spirit and the human condition.
 9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY David Letterman sits down with Regis Philbin and Kelly Ripa. But who will interview whom? 
 3 P.M. (Fox) THE DR. OZ SHOW In honor of ''National No Phone Zone Day,'' Oprah Winfrey asks Dr. Mehmet Oz about what happens to the brain when people text and drive. 
 5 P.M. (Bravo) LADIES FIRST: BRAVO AT THE KENTUCKY DERBY And she's off! Bravo heads to Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky., for the 136th running of the Kentucky Oaks, the Kentucky Derby's sister event, at which Blind Luck is expected to lead the pack of 14 3-year-old fillies. (The derby follows on Saturday.) Isaac Mizrahi and Natalie Morales will wade through the parade of frocks and hats, while Michael Voltaggio, Jennifer Carroll and Eli Kirshtein will sample the mint juleps and derby pie. The grandstand crowd will include Bravo reality stars like Dina Manzo of ''The Real Housewives of New Jersey'' and Jeff Lewis and Jenni Pulos of ''Flipping Out.'' Andy Cohen hosts.
 8 P.M. (CBS) GHOST WHISPERER Melinda (Jennifer Love Hewitt) investigates the accusations of a ghost who says that the nanny of Melinda's son, Aiden (Connor Gibbs), is pure evil. In ''Medium,'' at 9, after her neighbor is murdered, Allison (Patricia Arquette) has a high-tech burglar alarm installed, which she comes to suspect may be communicating with Marie (Madison Carabello).
 8 P.M. (Sundance) LIVE FROM ABBEY ROAD The Killers, Florence and the Machine, and Chairlift perform at Abbey Road Studios in London. 
 8 P.M. (NBC) WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE? In this season finale, Spike Lee, left, journeys to Georgia and Texas to answer the question of who owned his slave ancestors.
 8 P.M. (ABC) WIFE SWAP Sheila Schroeder of Indiana, a goth mother who wears funereal clothes to the supermarket and encourages her children to communicate with the dead, trades places with Stacy Wardle of New York, a hockey mom who doesn't mind calling her sons losers when they don't win. At 9, Amanda Hess, a reptile-loving Pennsylvania mother whose household includes 29 pets, swaps lives with Samantha Adams of Kentucky, who is all about fashion and can't stand smelly creatures.
 8:30 P.M. (HBO) 24/7 MAYWEATHER/MOSLEY The boxers Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Shane Mosley prepare for their pay-per-view showdown at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas on Saturday at 9 p.m. The previous three episodes of the series will be shown Friday night starting at 7. 
 10 P.M. (National Geographic) TWO KENYAN GUYS: TAKING ON TEXAS Boni and Lemarti, Kenyan warriors, continue their cross-country trip with a visit to the Lone Star State -- to see ''where they have all the cows in America,'' they say. Their stay on a working ranch includes being fitted for cowboy boots and hats, learning to skeet shoot, eating barbecue, riding a horse for the first time and then competing in a rodeo. Oh, yeah -- and learning to say ''How y'all doing?'' with a proper Texas accent.
 10 P.M. (Starz) PARTY DOWN Henry (Adam Scott), the new team leader, and Ron (Ken Marino), the old one, come to blows at a fund-raiser for a prestigious preschool where parents will stop at almost nothing to have their children accepted. In ''Gravity,'' at 10:30, Lily (Krysten Ritter) signs up for an extreme life makeover after a member of her suicide-survivor group dies.
 10 P.M. (ABC) MOTHER'S LITTLE HELPER In this ''20/20'' report, Elizabeth Vargas ventures into homes and rehabilitation centers to chronicle the stories of four mothers battling alcoholism -- some successfully, others not.
 10 P.M. (BBC America) FRIDAY NIGHT WITH JONATHAN ROSS In a Yankee edition of this British talk show, Demi Moore dishes about playing opposite David Duchovny in ''The Joneses,'' and Robert Downey Jr. and Gwyneth Paltrow promote their latest film, ''Iron Man 2.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); HORSE RACING (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (67%); HORSES (67%); MURDER (66%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (57%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (67%); DAVID LETTERMAN (53%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%); JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010



807 of 807 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Euro Rises After I.M.F. Increases Aid Pledge to Greece

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and NICHOLAS KULISH; David Jolly, Matthew Saltmarsh and Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
European stocks rose modestly and the euro halted its decline Thursday, a day after the International Monetary Fund promised to increase the 45 billion euro aid package for Greece to as much as 120 billion euros over three years to quell the I.M.F.'s biggest crisis since the Asian woes of 1997.
 The fund is racing to conclude an agreement for more painful austerity measures from Greece by Monday, clearing the way for the government in Athens to receive funding and to reassure investors worldwide that European debt is safe. 
 On Wednesday, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the I.M.F.'s forceful managing director, pledged the additional aid in a private meeting with German legislators. The package would be the equivalent of up to $160 billion and would come from both the I.M.F. and from Germany and other countries using the euro.
 But as has frequently been the case during Europe's debt crisis, the promise of help was overshadowed by more disturbing news -- in this case, a cut in the debt rating of Spain by a major agency just a day after downgrades for Portugal and Greece.
 The growing fear is that the fallout from Greece and even Portugal, which together compose just 5 percent of European economic activity, could be a mere sideshow if Spain, with its much larger economy, has difficulty repaying its debt.
 By Thursday afternoon the euro was at $1.3254, up from $1.3220 late Wednesday in New York. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro-zone blue chips, rose 1.4 percent, and the FTSE-100 index in London rose 0.6 percent.
 Shares in the United States were higher as market attention on Wall Street shifted toward the stronger results from corporate earnings reports.
 Most major Asian markets fell, with both the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong and the S.&P./ASX 200 index in Sydney dropping 0.8 percent. Tokyo markets were closed for a holiday.
 In many ways, the current troubles in Europe go to the heart of the monetary fund's new mission to serve as a firewall in the financial crisis -- an objective bolstered by $750 billion in fresh capital from the Group of 20 countries last year.
 Unlike its previous efforts in smaller, emerging economies in Asia in 1997, and more recently in Hungary, Romania, Latvia and Iceland, the International Monetary Fund has been hamstrung in its efforts to act quickly and decisively by political concerns within the European Union, which insists on assuming a leading role.
 ''It is a problem,'' said Alessandro Leipold, a former acting director of the fund's European department. ''It should not be that difficult -- they did it in Hungary and Latvia. But the egos are different in industrialized countries.''
 A case can be made that if Greece had sought help from the fund late last year after the forecast for its budget deficit doubled, the amount of support needed to reassure investors would have been much less than the 120 billion euros that even now might not be enough.
 In that vein, Mr. Leipold said Portugal and Spain should ignore any stigma associated with an International Monetary Fund program and make the case to the European Commission in Brussels that asking for aid now would soothe skeptical markets and save Europe billions in the future.
 ''The market has seen its worst fears come true,'' he said. ''What it needs is a surprise on the upside.''
 Concerns have already surfaced in Washington that the broad demands of the sovereign debt crisis will quickly exhaust the fund's reserves and leave the United States, the fund's largest shareholder, with the bill.
 Representative Mark Kirk, a Republican from Illinois, said such a drain could occur if Portugal, Ireland and Spain all sought aid at the same time. Mr. Kirk worked at the World Bank during the 1982 debt crisis in Mexico, which came close to depleting the fund's reserves.
 ''We have seen this movie before,'' he said. ''Spain is five times as big as Greece -- that would mean a package of 500 billion.''
 Mr. Kirk sits on the House Appropriations Committee that oversees I.M.F. funds and said that he had already asked for hearings on the fund's ability to handle a European collapse.
 In Athens, the Greek government had no choice but to seek a solution with the monetary fund after its costs of borrowing skyrocketed, but that has not made the negotiations for aid any easier.
 The fund has sent one its most senior staff members, Poul Thomsen, who has overseen complex fund negotiations in Iceland and Russia, to assist Bob Traa, the official responsible for Greece, to work out a solution.
 According to people who have been briefed on the talks, the aim is to secure from Greece a letter of intent for even deeper budget cuts than the tough measures imposed so far, like reductions in civil service pay, in exchange for emergency funds.
 Steps being discussed include closing down parts of the little-used Greek railway system, which employs 7,000 people and is estimated to lose a few million euros a day; limiting unions' ability to impose collective bargaining agreements, which lead to ever-higher public sector pay; cutting out the two months of pay that private-sector workers get on top of their annual pay packages; increasing the retirement age and cutting back on pensions; and opening up the country's trucking market in an effort to lower extremely high transportation rates that have hindered the country's competitiveness.
 With Greece now shut out of the debt markets, it has little leverage to resist -- especially in light of the 8 billion euros it needs to repay bondholders on May 19. Analysts expect a deal by next week at the latest.
 But whether a Greek resolution calms investor fears about the ability of Portugal and Spain to repay their own maturing debt remains unclear.
 In a recent note to investors, Ray Dalio, founder of Bridgewater Associates, one of the world's largest hedge funds, described the market concern as intensely focused on Spain.
 ''Spain's cash flows (current account and budget deficit) are extremely bad,'' Mr. Dalio and his colleagues wrote in a February letter. ''Spain's living standards are reliant on not just the roll of old debt, but also on significant further external lending. For these reasons, we don't want to hold Spanish debt at these spreads.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); HUNGARY (92%); GREECE (91%); LATVIA (89%); PORTUGAL (89%); UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ROMANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

 
