

201 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
A Visionary Who Deserves a Fuller Portrait

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
CRADLE WILL ROCK," Tim Robbins's hectic try for an epic film treatment of the brief rise and sudden fall of the Federal Theater Project, ends on what is meant to be a rousing note: the premiere of Marc Blitzstein's 1937 opera, which gives the movie its name. After the work's opening was censored by Washington, ostensibly as part of cutbacks in financing, the first-night New York audience of several hundred journeyed 21 blocks uptown along with Orson Welles and John Houseman, that formidable director-producer team, from a padlocked theater to a bare one, where Blitzstein, alone at a beat-up piano, occupied the stage, while cast members, ordered by Equity not to set foot behind the footlights, rendered their lines from seats in the orchestra.
Unfortunately for the movie, this performance, which has entered theatrical lore, was also a prime example of the era's popular-front mentality. Blitzstein's music, influenced by Kurt Weill, could be compelling, but listening now to the tale of a stalwart steel-union leader (named, for clarification, Larry Foreman) standing up against the plutocrats of Steeltown U.S.A., especially the rotten "Mr. Mister," is to be caught in a time warp. It is impossible to take the show seriously, as put together in Mr. Robbins's cliche-jammed version, much less share in the rapturous reception by a pro-union audience at a time when a bitter union-management battle was being fought out in the steel industry. 
 Like this prolonged climax, the rest of the movie, which Mr. Robbins wrote as well as directed, suffers from its own class-struggle theme, as working stiffs and artists without money are set against millionaire bosses and their fascist consorts. We can take the show as a sort of period piece, an attempt to capture the them-against-us spirit of the Depression era. But with its cartoonlike characterizations (everybody from Nelson Rockefeller to Diego Rivera to William Randolph Hearst to Bertolt Brecht), it is a historical offense against the Federal Theater Project itself, reducing it to what its enemies in Congress asserted it was, a sort of agitprop factory run by a crowd of lefties.
Hallie Flanagan (1890-1969), who headed the Federal Theater Project in its brave and troubled existence, deserves better. The movie treats her deservedly as a heroine of America's one effort to create what she envisioned as a free, adult, uncensored theater. But in trying to reproduce the commotions of the 1930's, Mr. Robbins, captured by nostalgia for the left, diminishes her accomplishment.
Hired from Vassar, where she ran the nation's leading experimental theater, Flanagan (played winningly in the movie by Cherry Jones) brought to the idea of a federal theater rich experience, high standards and an indomitable spirit. Not even the crude assault of Congressional subversive hunters could rattle her professionalism or tarnish her reputation.
Her ability and commitment were tested from all sides. The Federal Theater Project was just one minor element in the New Deal's assemblage of relief projects; its mandate was to give jobs to unemployed actors, stagehands and other theater folk. That meant that some seasoned professionals were barred because they were fortunate enough to have savings or part-time employment, and some of those who got jobs were not of the first caliber.
Along with that basic conflict between helping the jobless and creating professional productions came uneasy relations with the established theatrical unions, on the defensive against any threat to their members' jobs, as well with a new union, the Workers Alliance, which recruited the down-and-outers and had a reputation for militancy, even of a Communist stripe. There were run-ins, too, with theater owners, aspiring censors and protesters of all sorts in a period when protest was a leisure-time industry.
In spite of administrative headaches, shaky personnel and not much money, Flanagan managed to come through with a vigorous campaign to bring live performances to all sections of the country and to large audiences, many of whom had never seen a stage production before.
There was classical theater ("Horse Eats Hat"); newer plays ("Murder in the Cathedral"); experiments ("The Tragical History of Dr. Faustus"); children's theater ("Revolt of the Beavers," written off by one critic as "Marx a la Mother Goose"); musicals ("Sing for Your Supper," which gave us both "Ballad for Americans" and the lyrics, "I don't want to be intellectual/ I want to be sexual"); black theater ("Swing Mikado"); Yiddish theater ("Awake and Sing"), and dance, pageants, puppets and all manner of variations.
An ambitious array, marked by enterprise and energy. Not all came close to satisfying Flanagan's standards, but the admission charges were minimal (25 cents to 50 cents), as were the wages ($21 to $55 a month for the untrained, up to $103.40 for New York professionals), and many productions won raves from both critics and the public. A few found a memorable place in theater history.
The themes that agitated the Federal Theater Project's enemies, notably Southern Democrats and conservative Republicans in Congress, were those on topical issues, particularly under the rubric of "Living Newspapers." Here were "Triple-A Plowed Under," about the quashing of the New Deal's farm program (Earl Browder, then leading the American Communist Party, is quoted between Al Smith and Thomas Jefferson); "One-Third of the Nation," on the homeless, and "Power," a paean to the Tennessee Valley Authority. It did not escape the Dies Committee, headed by Martin Dies, a Democrat from Texas, that such plays were not plugs for capitalism. His committee would become famous as the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
The congressmen, no great theater fans to begin with, immediately began a search for the Communists behind this plot to besmirch the rich and perhaps encourage race-mingling. But although there were Communists at work (John Howard Lawson, who would be a sort of commissar of the blacklisted Hollywood Ten, contributed "Processional," about striking miners), their machinations were not required to explain the leftward tendencies of the 30's, particularly among people who had been hit hard by the hard times. After all, by Works Progress Administration rules, the Federal Theater Project was mandated to be pro-union and no investigation of clients' ideologies was permitted.
Although Flanagan herself was put off by heavy-handed propaganda that got in the way of theatrical effectiveness, she did her best to explain to the congressmen that criticism of the establishment had always been part of the theater's mission and never more so than in the contentious atmosphere of the Depression.
They were not listening. By the mid-1930's the New Deal had lost much of its political punch and in 1939 the federal theater was finished off by Congress. The cradle fell. For all its artistic weaknesses and ideological preachments, this W.P.A. project remains the first and last serious experiment in federally subsidized theater and a tribute to Hallie Flanagan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The composer Marc Blitzstein, at the piano, rehearses cast members of "The Cradle Will Rock" in 1937. Hallie Flanagan, inset, the head of the Federal Theater Project, about 1936. (Photofest; Underwood & Underwood (Flanagan) ) (pg. 5); Cherry Jones plays the theater administrator Hallie Flanagan in the film "Cradle Will Rock." (Demme Todd/Touchstone Pictures) (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM (89%); CENSORSHIP (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); OPERA (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: TIM ROBBINS (74%); GEORGE ORSON 'ORSON' WELLES (57%); JOHN J HOUSEMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



202 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: A $4 Billion Mix of Uses Is on Tap for San Francisco

BYLINE: By MORRIS NEWMAN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
A 400,000-square-foot university laboratory is the first building to rise in Mission Bay, the site of a former rail yard on the city's waterfront that has become San Francisco's largest redevelopment project.
On a 303-acre site that is now a tangle of unused railroad tracks, industrial buildings and empty lots just south of the new San Francisco Giants baseball park, developers plan a biotechnology-oriented commercial district and a large residential neighborhood. The centerpiece of the project is a 43-acre life-sciences campus for the University of California at San Francisco. 
 If fully realized, developers say, the 20-year, $4 billion Mission Bay project will contain 5 million square feet of commercial space, including office buildings and commercial laboratory buildings; 2.65 million square feet of university buildings; 6,000 housing units, and parks and open space.
The primary landowner in the area, Catellus Development Corporation of San Francisco, the developer for the commercial portion of the project, donated 30 acres to the university for the new campus, while the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency donated an additional 13 acres of adjoining land.
Developers and city officials expect the university campus to serve as a magnet for biotech companies, and the promise of high-paying technology jobs has made Mission Bay a pet project of Mayor Willie Brown.
Development officials hope to recreate the synergy between research institutions and high-tech industry that gave birth to Silicon Valley, where students and faculty members of Stanford University in Palo Alto originated hundreds of computer-related companies. At least 46 biotech companies have already originated at the University of California campus here, said Bruce Spaulding, vice chancellor for advancement and planning.
The life sciences campus is expected to attract 31,000 jobs to Mission Bay, or about 5 percent of the jobs in San Francisco now, said Amy Neches, senior project manager for the city's redevelopment agency.
Originally part of San Francisco Bay, the Mission Bay area arose out of a 19th-century landfill; the area was the city's primary depository for rubble after the 1906 earthquake.
Starting in the 1920's, the area served as a rail yard for the city's then-busy harbor. Changes in shipping, notably the rise of shipping containers, led to the demise of Mission Bay as a cargo hub in the 1970's.
For nearly 20 years, developers have searched for ways to redevelop the land in a city where buildable land is scarce.
Even with a steady demand for land, however, city officials and developers took a decade to agree on a plan. After considerable controversy about the density of the development and the amount of public parkland to be developed, the city and county Board of Supervisors approved a plan in 1991. Soon after, however, the recession hit California, and the project died.
In the mid-1990's, the future of Mission Bay became linked with the development plans of the University of California at San Francisco. At that time, its life sciences division was on the crowded main campus on Parnassus Avenue, just south of Golden Gate Park. By the late 1970's, the rapidly expanding university had already outgrown its campus, but a proposal to build new laboratories in the neighborhood met with protests and multiple lawsuits from homeowners.
In 1976, the university agreed to cap the size of the Parnassus Avenue campus at its existing 3.5 million square feet. Unable to expand on its central campus, the fast-growing university chose to decentralize, renting or buying satellite campuses throughout the city. But that scattering ultimately displeased university officials, who believed that the "folks in the disparate sites didn't feel the sense of community which one expects in an academic environment," Mr. Spaulding said.
In the early 1990's, resolved to relocate, the university looked at 150 sites, many outside the city.
The notion of the university, or even a part of it, leaving the city alarmed business leaders and government officials, who began lobbying the university to stay in town.
Nelson Rising, president and chief executive of Catellus, was a key force behind the university's eventual decision to stay here, according to Mr. Spaulding. "When Nelson took over as C.E.O. of Catellus," Mr. Spaulding said, "on his very first day he came up to see me in my office and said, 'I want to turn things around.' "
The regents of the University of California approved the Mission Bay campus in 1997. Last October, construction began on a $143 million laboratory building, one of three that are to make up the first phase of the university portion of the project. Part of the financing for the lab buildings comes from a $50 million payment by Genentech Inc., of South San Francisco, which provided the money as partial settlement of a patent-infringement lawsuit filed against the company by the university.
(The university had charged that the company used technology developed decades earlier at the university; the settlement, in which Genentech did not admit any wrongdoing, gives the company naming rights for the building.)
The lab building, designed by SMP/SHG Architects of San Francisco in association with the Zimmer Gunsul Frasca Partnership of Portland, Ore., has an entrance facing an eight-acre park, which is meant to create a campus atmosphere from the start, said William Diefenbach, a senior vice president of SMP/SHG.
After Catellus persuaded the university to build the campus at Mission Bay, the developer decided to scrap its approved master plan and redesign the Mission Bay project, this time as a technology-related business park surrounding the campus like a doughnut.
In contrast to earlier plans, which envisioned Mission Bay as almost a self-contained area within the larger city, the new plan tries to make it part of the city.
The new plan, designed by the architectural firm of Johnson Fain Partners of Los Angeles, proposes a regular street grid for Mission Bay, with blocks nearly identical in dimension to those in downtown San Francisco. William H. Fain Jr., the urban-design principal at Johnson Fain, said the block size was based on an 1839 surveyor's map that laid out the first nine blocks of the downtown. The plan also arranges the streets in a simple grid to allow uninterrupted waterfront views, a feature missing in earlier plans.
The design of the campus, which was prepared by another firm, Machado and Silvetti Associates of Boston, conforms to the street grid pattern.
In addition to its biotech component, Mission Bay will be a significant housing resource for a city with a severe housing shortage, said Ms. Neches, the redevelopment official.
In all, 28 percent of the 6,000 housing units will be moderately priced, she said. Unlike the housing in many other new developments, the lower-priced apartments and town houses will be integrated with the market-rate units, she said.
Catellus selected AvalonBay Communities of Alexandria, Va., a national apartment developer, to build most of the housing. The city's redevelopment agency plans to start construction this summer on 90 moderately priced apartments on an acre Catellus donated to the agency.
In late 2000, Catellus plans to begin work on 160,000 square feet of retail space, 25,000 square feet of office space and about 500 housing units on a spot the size of a city block, north of the university campus. At the center of the block will be an 85-foot-wide walkway, or paseo.
To Mr. Rising, Mission Bay represents a good example of urban development: a mixed-use environment that has been designed for people on foot as much as for those in cars.
The proximity of housing, university and workplace may enable many people to walk to work -- a rarity in this city of clogged freeways and far-flung suburbs. "This is the way we have got to go in the future," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former rail yard that is the 303-acre site of San Francisco's largest redevelopment project. (Catellus)
 
Map of San Francisco, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CDX (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATELLUS DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); BASEBALL (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); APPROVALS (66%); LANDFILLS (50%); RECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIE L BROWN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



203 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Long-Delayed Linden Complex Is Ready for Takeoff

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
TIME-WORN airport buildings and airplane hangars have been bulldozed over the last three months in preparation for a large mixed-use complex, ending years of uncertainty and false starts over the redevelopment of the 188-acre Linden Municipal Airport site.
The $70 million project, which will contain 650,000 square feet of retail space as well as a 120-room Marriott Hotel, will spread over 66 acres along Route 1 and 9 in the northern portion of the city-owned airport site. It will be built during the next 18 months by a new development team the city selected in February to carry out its 9-year-old redevelopment plan, the latest in an over-15-year effort to recycle the site. 
 The team is made up of Starwood Ceruzzi Properties, L.L.C, of Fairfield Conn., the retail development affiliate of the Starwood Capital Group of Greenwich, Conn., which has developed shopping centers throughout the New York metropolitan region, and Cappelli Development Company of Valhalla, N.Y. The partners also have the right of first refusal to develop 29 additional acres in the far southern corner of the site that the city has left open for development to nonresidential use.
Aviation activities at the airport, which dates back to the 1940's and continues to be used for small cargo and private planes, have been relocated in the last two years to 91 acres in the middle of the property. Linden received about $12 million in federal and state money to reconfigure the airport. Moreover, in return for Linden's keeping it open on part of the site, the Federal Aviation Administration released the city from its obligation to maintain the entire tract as an airport until 2002.
That, along with approval from the F.A.A. and the city's planning board and Council of the latest plan, cleared the way for the mixed-use complex in this old industrial Union County city, which since the 1970's has watched its economic base weaken as major companies downsized or moved.
Mayor John T. Gregorio said that by redeveloping half the site, "the city keeps the airport for which it is known" and brings in a project that will add new tax revenue to the city and help diversify its economy. An added hope, he said, is that it will spur other projects on vacant or underused parcels up and down Linden's four-mile-long industrial stretch of Route 1 and 9.
"For Linden, the next area of growth to go to is commercial," Mayor Gregorio said, adding that such development is supported by the city's location. Newark International Airport and Manhattan are within a 20-minute drive, and highway access is good, with the New Jersey Turnpike, the Garden State Parkway and Route 1 and 9 nearby.
Location was a key reason Starwood Ceruzzi wanted to develop the airport site. "In so densely populated an area there are virtually no sites of this size directly on a highway left to develop," said Louis Ceruzzi, the company's president. "Tenant demand is strong," he added, noting that retailers have signed contracts or letters of intent for 98 percent of the space.
The businesses are to include a 135,000-square-foot Home Depot, a 125,000-square-foot Target department store, a 60,000-square-foot Shop Rite supermarket and a 16-screen Loews movie theater as the anchors for the project, which Mr. Ceruzzi said is being configured as a power center. The International Council of Shopping Centers in Manhattan defines such centers as open-air retail strips with 250,000 to 750,000 square feet of space and three or more large speciality stores.
Ted Kraus, who heads TKO, a retail consulting firm in Mercerville, said the potential of the airport site in Linden as a retail location was never the problem. Rather, the issue in recent years has been "credibility," he said, pointing to the site's checkered development history, which, he added, this project "seems to have overcome."
Getting to this point has been a frustrating journey for the city, which over the years explored to no avail redeveloping all or part of the site. For instance, redeveloping the entire tract, the plan before this one, would have required Linden to find a replacement site for the airport before the F.A.A. would release the city from its lease. But that plan proved too costly and never moved forward, said Fred C. Michaeli, who runs Planners Diversified, a planning and consulting firm in Summit and is the airport development consultant for Linden.
IN the early 90's, Linden officials began pursuing the current plan, which Mr. Michaeli described as a compromise. But progress was slowed as redevelopment agreements with two earlier developers unraveled. The first one was never consummated, and the second was terminated, Mr. Michaeli said. He refused to be more specific about the cause of the termination because of pending litigation. The redevelopment agreement with the Starwood Ceruzzi team was signed in April.
Mayor Gregorio said that this time "there is no question the project will start." Among the reasons for his confidence is that title to the the land has been acquired by the developers, who have cleared the site and are now cleaning it of contaminants.
Under their redevelopment agreement the partners acquired the site for $17 million, $5 million of which has been paid. The developers will pay the remaining $12 million once final permits are secured, which Mr. Ceruzzi said he expected to have next month.
Meanwhile, as part of their redevelopment agreement, Mr. Ceruzzi said, the partners are to make $5 million in road improvements needed to accommodate the project. They include widening Route 1 and 9 in front of the site as well as replacing two traffic lights.
The partners also contributed $500,000 to improve the city's downtown business corridor as part of an ongoing effort to "make it more competitive," Mayor Gregorio said. And they will pay the $1.25 million cost of the environmental cleanup, which included removing underground storage tanks and cleaning the airplane fuel and oil left behind from the airport operation. Mr. Ceruzzi said the work would be completed in 45 days, at which time construction on the retail project would start.
Mr. Ceruzzi said that although recycling the airport site contains its share of challenges, "the time is ripe for its redevelopment."
The area "is not served by a power center so there are a lot of retail sales not being captured," he said. "To develop big projects like this in the metropolitan area these days requires some kind of adaptive reuse of sites."
Mr. Kraus, the retail consultant, added that the Linden project was advancing at a time when there seems to be a renewed interest by retailers "in densely populated but underserved urban areas." At the same time, he said, the strong economy and retail market as well as the shortage of prime parcels "now make it worthwhile for developers to deal with the difficulties, from higher land costs to environmental concerns, associated with recycling urban sites."
While the overall retail vacancy rate in the state is under 5 percent, Mr. Kraus said it is higher in the cities, putting it at about 7.5 percent to 8 percent. Still, he said, those numbers are down from 10 to 11 percent four years ago and will continue to decline as long as the economy remains healthy.
Mr. Ceruzzi said the Linden project, as now envisioned, will feature signs with an aviation theme and contain up to 16 stores. In addition to the four anchor tenants, they will include five stores with 20,000 to 30,000 square feet each and six or seven smaller shops and restaurants with 3,000 to 8,000 square feet each. Rents will range from $15 to $20 a square foot, depending on the size of the store.
The anchor stores and the theater are expected to open by the end of next year, with the rest to follow by the middle of 2001, he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linden Airport site cleared for $70 million project to include 625,000 square feet of stores and a hotel. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 
Maps of New Jersey highlighting Linden

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STARWOOD CAPITAL GROUP LLC (56%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITIES (77%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); 

PERSON: FRED C MICHAELI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



204 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Easing Removal Of Ice

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
ANYONE who has been to a hardware store in winter knows that there are scores of products on the market designed to make ice- and snow-removal less of a backbreaking chore. But sorting through the various chemicals, compounds, combinations, concentrations and price-per-ice-melting-pound computations is better suited to a chemist with a degree in economics than to a homeowner with an inch of ice on his driveway.
"Not all de-icers are created equal," said Edward Chouinard, president of Standard Tar Products, a company based in Milwaukee that makes Snomelt Instant Ice Melter. "But virtually all de-icers work on the same basic principle: They lower the freezing point of the water produced by the ice they melt." 
 Mr. Chouinard, whose company manufactures de-icing products used by homeowners, commercial property managers and state and local highway departments, explained that while plain water freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit, the freezing point of water containing a de-icing chemical is lower than that -- sometimes much lower.
"The nice thing about Snomelt is that it's exothermic," Mr. Chouinard said. "That means that when you mix it with water, it creates heat."
Some de-icers -- for example, sodium chloride, better known as halite or rock salt -- are endothermic, meaning that they need to absorb heat from the atmosphere, sunlight or friction from tires to melt ice or snow. As a result, while rock salt is the least expensive de-icing agent available -- selling for anywhere from $2.50 to $4 for a 50-pound bag -- it is only effective at temperatures above 15 or 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
Products like Snomelt, on the other hand, which is 90 to 95 percent calcium chloride and sells for about $15 for a 50-pound bag, can melt ice or snow at temperatures as low as minus 59 degrees Fahrenheit, depending on the concentration of the chemical in the solution produced by the melting ice -- a solution that de-icing experts call "brine."
In fact, it is the brine produced by a de-icing product -- rather than the melting action of the product itself -- that does the work the homeowner is hoping to avoid.
Rick May, marketing manager for Dow Chemical in Midland, Mich., said that most de-icing products work by penetrating the ice, dissolving into brine and then seeping into the pores of the concrete under the ice. Once there, the brine breaks the bond between the ice and the sidewalk, making it easier to remove the ice.
Mr. May added that while calcium chloride can indeed melt ice at minus 59 degrees Farenheit, that is the "laboratory limit" of the chemical's effectiveness. "In the real world, its practical effective temperature is more like minus 28 degrees Fahrenheit," he said, adding that the effective temperature of the chemical decreases because its concentration in the brine becomes lower as more and more ice melts.
He also explained that since calcium chloride is effective at such a low temperature, products containing it are less likely to cause problems on concrete surfaces, which are vulnerable to damage as a result of being exposed to freeze-thaw cycles.
The damage occurs, he said, when water that has been melted by the de-icer refreezes because the temperature has dropped below the level at which the de-icer is effective. When that happens, the concrete may crack.
When de-icers like plain rock salt are used, Mr. May said, the freezing point of the brine is relatively high -- around 15 to 20 degrees Fahrenheit -- thereby making it more likely that the temperature will drop to a point where the melted ice will refreeze. When a de-icer like calcium chloride is used, on the other hand, the temperature would have to fall below minus 28 degrees for the ice to refreeze.
"De-icer damage to concrete is usually not a chemical reaction," Mr. May said. In addition to products like calcium chloride and sodium chloride -- the most and least expensive consumer de-icing chemicals, respectively -- other de-icers on the market include potassium chloride, magnesium chloride and urea, as well as various combinations of some or all of them.
Meltdown Near Zero, for example, a de-icer manufactured by EnviroTech Services, a company based in Greeley, Colo., contains a combination of sodium, calcium, potassium and magnesium chlorides. According to Kenberly Dannatt, a sales assistant for the company, the product -- which has a dark color to increase its ability to absorb solar energy, thereby increasing the melting rate -- can work at temperatures as low as minus 5 degrees Fahrenheit.
Even companies that manufacture rock salt are aware of the virtues of mixing more potent chemical de-icers in with their salt. Cargill Salt, a company based in Minneapolis, for example, manufactures Jiffy Melt, a combination of ordinary rock salt and magnesium chloride.
"The advantage of Jiffy Melt is that the salt gives it a high melting capacity at higher temperatures while the magnesium chloride allows it to keep working by dropping the freezing point down to about minus 10 degrees," said David Merriweather, director of quality assurance for the company.
Another de-icer that contains magnesium chloride is Freeze Fighter, a relatively new product that is intended to prevent snow or ice from accumulating.
"Freeze Fighter is something we've been selling to state highway departments for about 15 years," said Robin Reid, communications specialist for Reilly Industries, an Indianapolis company that manufactures the product. "And this year we decided that it's something we should be offering to homeowners, too."
Freeze Fighter, which is a liquid, is designed to be applied to a sidewalk or driveway before or shortly after snow has started to fall, Ms. Reid said, and should prevent as much as two inches of snow from accumulating. In other words, she said, if only two inches of snow falls, none should stick on treated surfaces."And if four inches fall, you should only have two inches to shovel."
The product, which is applied with a garden sprayer and remains effective until it is washed away by rain or melting snow, costs about $9 a gallon -- an amount that will provide coverage of about 2,000 square feet.
"Freeze Fighter is not just a de-icer, it's an anti-ice and snow agent," Ms. Reid said. "It allows the homeowner to take a proactive rather than reactive stance against snow and ice. When you start seeing flurries, you can get out there and spray."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); STANDARD TAR PRODUCTS CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CHEMICALS (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); CHEMISTRY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (68%); 

PERSON: EDWARD CHOUINARD (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



205 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 2; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Scarsdale;
Breaching a Time Warp With an Online Look at the Class of '69

BYLINE: By LYNNE AMES

DATELINE: SCARSDALE

 BODY:
ON the Web site of the Scarsdale High School class of '69, each person's 1969 picture and a current picture are displayed side by side. Scarsdale high schoolers who are in the virtual yearbook or the ibook, as it is called, and who check its pages regularly for postings and updates, say they feel that they have breached a time warp of sorts, re-awakening teenage memories while forging new or renewed adult connections.
"You have a history with these people and an obligation to nurture and keep it a living part of your life," said Marlo Lewis, a staff director of the House Government Sub-Committee on Regulatory Affairs in Washington. 
 Carol Harper, founder and owner of a Boston-based media strategy company, added: "There's something about a shared past; we all know exactly where we're coming from. Even if you weren't at all friendly with a particular person -- well, for example, I was part of a serious, sort of hippie fringe crowd in high school and Steve was the kind of guy who knew everyone and had lots of friends; we barely spoke in high school, but now, through the ibook, we're very, very friendly and I've even hired him to do some work for my company."
The Steve she is referring to is Steven Shmerler, a Web site developer whose Los Angeles-based company, SASnet, has built sites for entertainment, health care and business professionals. Mr. Shmerler is the originator of the Scarsdale High School class of '69 virtual yearbook. He began the project shortly after receiving an invitation to the 30th class reunion, which was held in September.
After dragging out his 30-year-old, maroon and white Bandersnatch -- the yearbook name was taken from the poem "Jabberwocky" by Lewis Carroll -- he decided to put together the Web site, Bandersnatch ibook 99, as a volunteer effort despite the many hours he knew it would take to compile. He got in touch with Louise Weiss and Robert Posey, two of the reunion's organizers who still live in Westchester, and, through a combination of e-mail and plain old-fashioned phone calls, got enough photographs and mini-bios to start an online yearbook.
So far 33 out of a class of more than 300 are entered in the book, but more are e-mailing their material and still others just browse the site, Mr. Shmerler said. It includes a home page featuring a photograph of a maroon Scarsdale football jacket with a white number 69 on it, pictures of the 1969 yearbook and photographs of the school and its students then and now, including informal groupings from the recent reunion. There is a page labeled "In Memorium" to commemorate those who have died.
The home page features a quote from Jimi Hendrix: "Now if six turned out to be nine, I don't mind, I don't mind. If all the hippies cut off all their hair, I don't care, I don't care." On the introduction page, Mr. Shmerler refers to this lyric, writing, "So here we are -- 30 years later. It's the turn of the century, 6 has become 9 and not only did we cut off our hair, some of us have lost it. Argh! But has it really been such a long, strange trip? For a generation nursed on 'change' we shouldn't be surprised. It's like a river. All is the same, yet all is very different."
He also muses: "Was it the music, social change, the bomb, the assassinations, civil rights, cultural revolution, political turmoil, the war, free love, economic shifts, drugs, TV sitcoms, personal experimentation, spiritualization, questioning of authority, globalization, Woodstock, the mass media, fate, existential entropy? Or, was it that little drop of Retzin in the toothpaste? Whatever it was, something galvanized during those very intense years."
The consciously hip tone -- knowing, intellectual, slightly self-mocking -- reflects some of the mood of Scarsdale High School in 1969. The years that the class of '69 attended the school -- fall of 1965 through spring of 1969 -- were rife with change. The freshman and sophomore years were, for the most part, still pretty tame, socially dominated by football players and cheerleaders who, when not in uniform, wore matching A-line skirts and sweater sets. Then at the beginning of the junior year everything was suddenly different. Students grew their hair, wore fringe jackets and big denim bell bottoms and sneaked outside for a puff of marijuana, not just a surreptitious Marlboro as they had in the past. Most high schools around the country had yet to experience this shift, but Scarsdale was (and still is) the sort of sophisticated, fast-track environment that encouraged not only excellence in education but also bred a highly charged, "we've got it first" atmosphere.
"Our class was on the cusp between straight and nonstraight," said Patsy Kimble Brunner, who lives in Missoula, Mont., and runs a company that makes water-repellant salve for leather saddles and footwear. She herself "never even had a drink until college," but there were those whose involvement with drugs, Vietnam War protests and rock music predated that of high school students elsewhere in the country.
Mrs. Brunner and others also reflected on the changes that seemed to occur naturally with time. Teenagers, she said, "do a lot of mask building -- we were all hiding." Getting back in touch with classmates by way of the Web site has revealed a "leveling out of the playing field," with certain once tight-knit cliques dissipated and unexpected combinations as new friendships form.
Ms. Harper, for example, has not only begun a new friendship with Mr. Shmerler but also recently got together with another person she barely conversed with in high school, Dr. Andrea Schaffner. Dr. Schaffner is now a specialist in geriatrics; Ms. Harper's 87-year-old mother lives in Connecticut; recently, Ms. Harper took her to Dr. Schaffer's practice in the town of Essex and decided to retain her as her mother's doctor. "I'm so impressed with Andrea," she said. "She's very committed and serious about what she does and very compassionate. A few days ago, I drove down from Boston and took my mother to her office and met her 20-year-old daughter. We all stood in front of the computer and started maneuvering on the Scarsdale High School class of '69 site. Here we were, three generations -- Andrea and me, my 87-year-old mother, Andrea's 20-year-old daughter -- all looking at this Web site together."
Of course, some relationships remain intact. Mr. Shmerler and his group of close friends got together for a mini-reunion in Breckenridge, Colo., in 1997, which they called "the far-out festival." Online, one can see pictures of this gang of eight and learn that Mr. Shmerler is still called Shmerls and others still go by nicknames like Felix and Nanna. But even among those who have kept in close touch, the Internet -- specifically the virtual yearbook -- has had its own kind of impact.
John Tarnoff, a former film producer who lives in Los Angeles, said he has "found my second wind in the new media-interactive-Internet" field.
"The net is about community building," he said. "It enables you to check in with people without having to interact on the telephone. "It's awesome to look at the Scarsdale High postings," he said. "We've had 30 years' diverse experience, and yet we've all had one shared experience -- that of Scarsdale High School."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the Web site of the Scarsdale High School class of '69, which first came online last summer, are from left, Patsy Kimble Brunner, Carol Harper, the home page and Steven Shmerler.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: SCARSDALE HIGH SCHOOL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCARSDALE HIGH SCHOOL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); WEB SITES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (73%); VOLUNTEERS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



206 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Two Hamlets Pin Downtown Hopes on Aquariums

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD

 BODY:
HUNDREDS of aquatic creatures, including sharks, moray eels and stingrays, are swirling about in a special holding tank in nearby Holtsville awaiting the opening of a new aquarium here called Atlantis Marine World. Its first phase is in the final stages of construction on a 3.2-acre site at the east end of Main Street, Riverhead's shopping thoroughfare.
Merchants are hoping the aquarium will revive the street, where there is a 15 percent store vacancy rate. 
 The first phase of the attraction, costing $15 million, is being almost wholly financed by the developers, a partnership of James J. Bissett and Joseph M. Petrocelli. They intend to run it as a year-round profit-making enterprise. An opening is scheduled for Memorial Day.
At the same time, fund-raising is continuing for a nonprofit venture called the Long Island Aquarium, which is to rise in the heart of Bay Shore's downtown. The $65 million project, to be built on five acres owned by the Town of Islip, is also expected to breathe new life into the hamlet's shopping district by attracting thousands of tourists annually.
So far, the Bay Shore group has received about $2 million in federal and state grants and an additional $12 million in public and private pledges. Construction is expected to start by early summer with an opening two years later.
Riverhead town officials came up with the idea for an aquarium when a 3.2-acre property fronting on the Peconic River became available in 1995. The town bought the site for $1.3 million.
That same year, the Okeanos Foundation of Hampton Bays, a nonprofit marine research and preservation organization, was called on to develop the site. But Okeanos was unable to raise the $35 million needed for the project.
After issuing a request for proposals in 1998, the town selected Atlantis Marine World as the developer because it had the financing in place. The site was purchased for $1.75 million. Atlantis Marine bought the site from the town for $1.75 million.
"Because of the aquarium's central location, we expect it to serve as a major traffic generator for the downtown," said Andrea H. Lohneiss, director of Riverhead's Community Development Agency.
Mr. Bissett and family members own the Bissett Nursery in Holtsville, a wholesale distributer of plant materials with $30 million in annual revenue. Mr. Petrocelli owns a Ronkonkoma-based construction company. The two businesses are investing $7 million in the project and Mr. Bissett and Mr. Petrocelli are investing a total of $5 million of their personal funds, the partners said. The EAB bank of Uniondale has provided a $3 million loan through Riverhead's Industrial Development Agency.
Mr. Bissett said he became intrigued with the idea of building an aquarium on Long Island after visiting the New York Aquarium on Coney Island.
"I couldn't understand why Long Island didn't have a facility like that, so I did a business and a feasibility study with the idea of building one," he said.
Mr. Bissett also owns the five-acre, 150-slip Treasure Cove Resort Marina next to the aquarium site. The partners operate a tour boat called the Atlantis Explorer, which, with a naturalist from the Suffolk County office of the Cornell Cooperative Extension on board, gives visitors guided tours of the Peconic River and Flanders Bay. In its first season last summer the 72-passenger vessel attracted 10,000 visitors, Mr. Bissett said.
The aquarium, which was designed by the two partners in consultation with Joseph A. Yaiullo, a marine biologist who is curator of the complex, will have the Lost City of Atlantis as its theme.
Everything from a sculpture of Poseidon, to fallen columns and other depictions of ancient ruins, to grottos and caves were designed to show what Atlantis might look like were it ever discovered, Mr. Bissett said. The special effects and carvings, made of concrete and fiberglass, are all being made on site.
Visitors will enter from Main Street through a plaza containing an outdoor exhibit of harbor seals, a fountain and a 15-foot long sculpture of a breaching whale among other free attractions.
Once inside, ticket purchasers will first be able to view reproductions of the rocky North Shore and the sand dunes of the South Shore. A bridge will lead past a 22-foot high waterfall to the main exhibit area where tanks of different species of fish representing habitats from around the world will be on display.
AT the center of the 50,000-square-foot building will be a 120,000-gallon main tank containing a mix of species, including sharks, that can be viewed both through glass windows at the lower level and from a balcony above it.
Visitors will walk past displays emulating mangrove swamps and tropical forests. Each of the 80 exhibits will have story-board explanations. There will also be naturalists -- some suited up as divers -- on hand to answer questions along with robot displays that will also interact with visitors.
The first phase of the aquarium will have more than 50 tanks with a total of 750,000 gallons of water. The second phase is to have an 400,000-gallon tank with a 1,000-seat indoor stadium for marine mammal shows.
In addition to the exhibit area, the 3.2-acre parcel will also include a free nature trail along the river that will link the aquarium to a town park. The aquarium will also provide free space to the Riverhead Foundation for Marine Research and Preservation, the successor to Okeanos.
The aquarium could initially draw as many as 400,000 visitors a year according to the developers. Visitors will be able to park in public lots behind Main Street stores, which are expected to profit from the increased pedestrian trade, said Ms. Lohneiss of the Community Development Agency. About 1,200 parking spaces are now available and 500 more are planned.
The 10 million people who shop annually at the Tanger Factory Outlet Center just to the west of downtown have so far not brought in the crowds that downtown merchants had hoped for, though local restaurants have seen some spillover traffic, she said.
With the arrival of the aquarium, Ms. Lohneiss added, "we expect to see a lot of new interest in the vacant stores."
"What we hope to develop is a niche market, possibly an antiques store or restaurant hub," she said.
The idea of building an aquarium to revitalize downtown Bay Shore dates back six years, said Arthur F. Dromerhauser, the nonprofit group's chief executive. Local businessmen and others "felt that an aquarium would provide wholesome family-type entertainment" and bring thousands of visitors to the downtown, he said.
The site, on Mechanicsville Road between Park and Fourth Avenues, is currently vacant. The group hired Chermayeff, Sollogub and Poole of Boston, architects of the Baltimore and Chattanooga Aquariums and of the Osaka, Japan, aquarium among many others, to design the 110,000-square-foot facility, which will include a 260-seat Imax theater. It has also hired William Flynn, a leading aquarium consultant, to assist in the design.
The soaring glass building is a "derivative of the interior presentation that will be going on," said Bobby Poole, the architect in charge of the project. "The building is laid out to tell the story of the how the Laurentian ice formation formed on Long Island and how that affected animals, plants and man," he said.
Exhibits will include the face of an 80-foot high eroding glacier through which visitors will pass on a catwalk. "You move forward in time from 18,000 years ago to today, all inside a big crystal that gives form to the building and its 130-foot high peak and metaphorically reflects a broken piece of ice,' Mr. Poole said.
Most of the $65 million cost of the project still must be raised. The structure itself will cost $50 million. Pre-opening expenses to cover staff and other startup costs will come to $10 million, and $5 million is needed for architectural fees and other costs.
The aquarium, which has been chartered by the New York State Board of Regents as an educational institution, is expected to generate $2 million in net revenues a year to support a $30 million loan, which may come from union pension funds since the project will generate 242 construction jobs over two years, Mr. Dromerhauser said.
An additional $20 million must come from public grants. Suffolk County has already pledged $5 million to cover the cost of the Imax theater. The New York State Economic Development Corporation and the New York State Division of Parks and Recreation have between them contributed $850,000, and federal grants have so far amounted to $1.2 million. Private foundations, which are expected to contribute the remaining $15 million, have so far pledged $7 million.
Although a late spring groundbreaking is hoped for, "we won't put a shovel into the ground until the funding is secured," Mr. Dromerhauser said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, workers preparing the sea lion habitat at Atlantis Marine World in Riverhead. Model of Long Island Aquarium, planned for Bay Shore. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times; CSP Architects)
 
Map of Long Island, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BHD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); FISHES (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FUNDRAISING (79%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); MARINE BIOLOGY (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); CITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (63%); 

PERSON: JAMES J BISSETT (92%); JOSEPH M PETROCELLI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



207 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Got What They Wanted

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
SELDOM is heard a discouraging word among marketing directors, and the final, official results aren't in yet. But merchants all over Long Island are using the word "fantastic" to describe the century's final holiday shopping season, and economists, seeing a region awash in stock market profits and galloping growth, seem prepared to believe that Long Islanders went shopping in record fashion at the end of 1999.
And, as usual, they did a lot of their shopping in malls. 
 "The Walt Whitman Mall enjoyed its best Christmas in history," said Brenda Haas, marketing director for the South Huntington shopping center. "Traffic to the mall was off the charts. Our parking lots were filled to capacity. In fact, people were even parking on the grass."
Much of the surge at Walt Whitman can be attributed to the $85 million expansion it completed in March, growing by 32 stores to a total of 81. But at the same-size-as-before Smith Haven Mall in Lake Grove, Dennis Tietjen, the marketing director, said that sales were up 8 to 10 percent in December over the previous year.
And at the granddaddy of Long Island malls, Roosevelt Field in East Garden City, Ethel Sloan, the marketing director, said that sales were "absolutely fantastic. People spent heavily. Every month of the year sales ran ahead of the previous year, and we expect December to have recorded the strongest sales increase of the year."
In lieu of December sales figures, Ms. Sloan trotted out a computerized tally of the number of shoppers who entered the mall. The program was installed only last March, but even without comparable stats from the 1998 holiday season, the numbers for 1999 seemed huge: 550,000 in the week ending Dec. 11, 650,000 the following week and 670,000 during Christmas week. There were 325,000 shoppers on a more average week, the one ending Oct. 23.
"Roosevelt Field is one of the busiest malls in the United States, and No. 1 on Long Island," Ms. Sloan said. The mall, with 250 stores in 2.4 million square feet of space, was denied permission last year for a zoning variance that would have allowed further expansion.
Ms. Sloan, who is also the marketing director for The Mall at the Source in Westbury, said that a Kay Bee Toy Express that moved into a large vacant space at the Source just for the holiday season "did so fantastically that it was No. 1in the chain." As a result, Kay Bee Toys has decided to open a full-service store in the mall, she said.
Stores outside malls also reported an exceptionally good Christmas shopping season. Neil Ir, the owner of Frenchies Cycle World in Huntington Station, said it was the bicycle store's best December in its five years of operation.
"We did 15 percent better than last year," he said. "And the year as a whole was on a par with last year, which was very good."
Pearl Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, the largest business organization on the Island, said the region's retail figures appeared to be in line with national trends indicating an 8 percent rise. She noted that after a big surge in October, when sales tax receipts on the Island were up 22 percent over the previous October, the increase in November moderated to 9 percent. Ms. Kamer said she believed the December figure, expected Jan. 13, would be up 7 to 8 percent.
"We have a strong economy that is creating jobs," she said. "The number of jobs created from November 1998 to November 1999 was 31,700. That was the strongest year-to-year growth since 1986, when 35,000 jobs were created. I suspect we will have created 30,000 to 35,000 jobs in 1999, so we may tie the 1986 figure."
Unemployment in both counties remains nearly nonexistent. In November, it was 2.8 percent in Nassau, compared to 2.4 percent last year, and in Suffolk it was 3.2 percent, compared with 3.0 percent a year ago.
"Consumer confidence has never been as high as it is today," Ms. Kamer said. "People believe good times will continue well into this next year, and their spending is based on this confident attitude."
Although wage increases have only been in the 3-to-4-percent range, Ms. Kamer said the huge gains in the stock market have created many millionaires on Long Island. In 1999, the Nasdaq stock market composite index recorded a gain of 85.59 percent, and the Dow Jones Industrial average rose 25.2 percent.
Many merchants reported an increase in high-end business. Mr. Tietjen at Smith Haven said that the 160-store mall did not see an increase in shoppers, but that people flush with confidence about the economy simply bought more and were not afraid to buy big-ticket gifts.
"If you look at jewelry sales, we saw a 19 percent growth," Mr. Tietjen said.
The regional manager of Danier Leather in the Walt Whitman Mall, Toni Mantovani, said that although her store did not experience an increase in traffic, shoppers spent more than last year.
"We're an upscale shop, with luxury goods -- mostly clothing -- that run from $200 to $1,100," she said. "We sold twice as many shearlings and sheepskin as last year. I don't think people were nervous about the price. They saw quality, so they bought."
The assistant manager of Lundstrom Jewelers at the Smith Haven Mall, Debbie Canale, said that a "lot more people came into our store" in December, and that sales "surpassed all of the goals set for the month."
It was also a good Christmas season for Carol & Co. in East Hills, a boutique where "price is really never an issue" for shoppers, according to Carol Wolman, the store manager.
"Sales were very good," she said. "They were a lot better than the year before. I'd say they were the best in the five years we've been here."
Retailers were mostly mum on the effect of online shopping, but Mr. Ir at the bicycle shop said that it had made an impact on his business.
"We started to notice it last year, but this year it was more pervasive," he said. "People would come in and say they saw this bike on the Web for this much, can you match it. We're very aggressive in our pricing. We reduced our margins to increase our volume and compete with what goes on on the Web."
Mr. Ir said he planned to begin selling on the Internet himself in about six months.
Mr. Tietjen of the Smith Haven Mall said 1999 had been an exceptionally good year for merchants, with sales up about 5 percent over the previous year before the holiday shopping season even started. Combining those numbers with an 8 percent to 10 percent increase in November and December sales measured against the year before, he said, "made merchants very happy."
The owner of LeMarc's Hallmark store in the Walt Whitman Shopping Center, Ronald B. Falbee, agreed, saying simply: "It was a terrific business year. It was probably our best."
Mr. Falbee, who said he owns 10 other stores on Long Island, plus others in the city and New Jersey, noted that although some of his stores (he wouldn't be more specific) had flat sales growth, others had double-digit increases in 1999. And he pointed out that this growth came on top of successively good years.
"We're coming off a strong year," he said. "It didn't just happen this year. Last year was a great year, and the year before that we had a good Christmas season. So 8 percent growth is very good, particularly coming on top of other good years."
Past performance, of course, is no guarantee of the future. Ms. Kamer warned that the Federal Reserve Board may increase interest rates by .75 percent this year -- beginning with a .5 percent increase in February or March -- to head off inflation, cool the stock market and slow the economy. She explained that the Federal Reserve regards a 3 to 3.5 percent increase in the gross domestic product as non-inflationary, but that G.D.P. growth was 5.7 percent in the third quarter of 1999 and was expected to be 5 percent in the fourth quarter.
"I think the Federal Reserve will be aggressive in seeking to cool the economy, and that might end the stock market bubble," Ms. Kamer said.
As the Federal Reserve Board tightens the money supply, she predicted, that could produce a 20 percent correction in the stock market, which if sustained could erase paper profits and cause "consumers to begin to close their wallets." In short, the next holiday season might not be as bright for retailers -- or their customers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malls were jumping over the holidays. "The Walt Whitman Mall enjoyed its best Christmas in history," according to an official of the South Huntington shopping center. "Traffic to the mall was off the charts." (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); ZONING (69%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (68%); TOYS & GAMES (64%); 

PERSON: PEARL KAMER (74%); ETHEL SLOAN (74%); DENNIS TIETJEN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



208 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2187 words

HEADLINE: What Life's Like in a County Divided

BYLINE: By LISA FODERARO

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
TO the outsider, Westchester County appears as one sprawling bedroom community, its 43 municipalities a suburban blur of tidy homes and huge mansions, bosky parkways and strip malls, soccer leagues and horse shows.
But just as the Upper East Side and the Upper West Side of Manhattan draw people in search of different ambiences, so too do the northern and southern sections of Westchester. In search of the American dream, newcomers must choose a locale that will inevitably reflect their values, schedules, tastes, budgets and biases. It is not an easy choice. 
 For people who are neither very rich nor very poor, a zippy commute into Grand Central Terminal often means settling for a stingy lot size. A property with trees to spare, and perchance a stream, on the other hand, might make a sit-down family dinner a dim memory. Those far enough north to pick out a constellation other than Orion probably have a hike to the nearest supermarket. Those far enough south to know the names of their neighbors' dogs can expect the opposite side of neighborliness: the leaf-blower blowup.
"Whenever you make a tradeoff in your life style, you look at people who made the other tradeoff and wonder if you should have taken the other road," said John Turitzin, a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Battle Fowler, who lives in Chappaqua, a tranquil hamlet at the southerly end of northern Westchester.
Of course, northern Westchester and southern Westchester are complicated places, and for every generalization, there is a caveat. Over and over, people will say you get more for your money in northern Westchester than in southern Westchester, but try telling that to someone who is looking in Bedford or Chappaqua, sought-after communities where prices seem to rise to the beat of a different drummer.
With the largest four of the county's six cities -- Yonkers, White Plains, New Rochelle and Mount Vernon -- the southern half certainly has a more diverse population overall than the northern half. But there are municipalities in the south that are homogenous. In the wealthy city of Rye, African-Americans make up less than 2 percent of the population, which is a little more than 14,000, and Hispanics less than 5 percent. At the same time, in northern Westchester, the city of Peekskill is nearly a third black and Hispanic. The main difference is that the lot sizes are bigger in northern Westchester and the commute is easier from southern Westchester. That is the view of Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat who represents a swath of central Westchester along the Hudson River. "The infrastructure is fairly the same," he said. "There are the same pockets of urban poverty and the same income distributions in both places."
Mr. Brodsky's district, the 86th Assembly District, straddles the Cross Westchester Expressway, or Interstate 287, which, to many minds, is the county's Mason-Dixon line, the psychological divide between south and north. On the map it is roughly where the county appears cinched at the waist, the point at which road networks thin, street lights fade and meadows appear. The 86th Assembly District includes Briarcliff Manor, Mount Pleasant, Pleasantville, Sleepy Hollow, Tarrytown, Elmsford, Irvingtown, Dobbs Ferry, Ardsley, Hastings-on-Hudson and the unincorporated sections of Greenburgh.
Besides the north-south division, there are differences between east and west, both above and below the I-287. In the north, towns like Bedford, Lewisboro, North Salem and Pound Ridge on the eastern side constitute horse country, and long driveways lead to estates hidden from view. Many of the properties in that section are actually weekend homes belonging to wealthy Manhattanites. On the western side, there is a mix of blue-collar and professional residents in towns like Cortlandt and Yorktown where houses and yards are more modestly scaled, along with the prices.
In the south, the municipalities dotting the banks of the Hudson on the west are home to both rich and poor, a socio-economic cross section that residents embrace. That diversity is the legacy of the river's manufacturing past, when boarding houses went up to accommodate factory workers, and handsome Colonials, Tudors and Victorians rose for the new commuting class. On Long Island Sound to the east, however, yachting was the order of the day, and so those communities, with some exceptions, are more skewed toward the well-to-do.
While some may agree with Mr. Brodsky's assessment that commuting times and land, whether its lack or abundance, are the defining traits between north and south, others describe an aesthetic and a mindset that distinguish the two.
"Those who are in the south seem to want a real family neighborhood with cement sidewalks and curbstones and well-manicured lawns," said Walter Davis, a sales associate with Coldwell Banker in Bedford. "We're more rural and bucolic, with dirt roads. Even our family neighborhoods don't have sidewalks."
Southern residents seem to feel secure in the knowledge that New York City is a short hop away, both for play and work, and they enjoy glimpsing the skyline from hilly streets and waterfront parks. Many were reluctant to leave the city's vitality in the first place. "We use the city a lot for entertaining," said Linda Pruzan, a Scarsdale resident who runs a Westchester program for high school students with emotional and behavioral problems. "We're in five or six times a month."
Northern residents, on the other hand, seem to desire a thicker veil between themselves and New York City. And as southern Westchester has grown more urbanized and congested over the decades, they have retreated to a country setting where stop signs are free of graffiti and crime does not advance much beyond a smashed mailbox or two.
When Dana and Peter Stahl were looking for a house with their son, now 13, and daughter, now 9, after returning to Westchester from the Boston area, they kept pushing their search north. High school sweethearts, they had grown up in Scarsdale. But they wound up in Katonah, a sylvan hamlet in the town of Bedford, where, Mrs. Stahl says, they found the New England atmosphere they craved and a culture that feels less materialistic than that of their native village.
Mrs. Stahl said she knows crime can happen anywhere, but she was still struck when the Bedford police knocked on her door soon after they moved in. "He said, 'Ma'am, I just want to let you know there are snapping turtles crossing your property, and your children should be careful'," she recalled. "I thought, they have the time to inform me of this?"
That sense of insularity can reach extremes, as northern perceptions of southern Westchester sometimes do not jibe with reality. Mrs. Stahl, who is a learning specialist at the Hackley School in Tarrytown and the mother of two, remembers getting a call from a friend who had recently moved to Katonah from California. The friend had received a gift certificate to Tower Records in Yonkers and wondered if she would be safe driving down Central Avenue. "I was floored," Mrs. Stahl said.
After living in Cortlandt, Satoshi Maezono, who owns a dry cleaning business in Ardsley, decided to head south. In Cortlandt, he had a house on a quarter acre. Today, he has a condominium in Scarsdale. He moved, in part, to be closer to Manhattan, but also for greater ethnic diversity.
"It's not like I ever had any bad experience," he said, "but you go to a restaurant and you kind of feel an aura. It was like visiting my daughter in Virginia, where it seems as though everyone in the restaurant knows each other, and I just don't feel comfortable, like I'm an outsider."
For Mr. Maezono, with a business in Westchester, commuting time was less of an issue. But for many Manhattan professionals, it is the only issue. Some couples begin looking in the north and, as the image of a life on wheels crystallizes, move their hunt south. Others start out in the south only to hop-scotch north from one broker to another as they contemplate a cheek-by-jowl existence.
"The commute has a huge impact on where you are going to live," said Bill Pepe, the general manager of Merritt Associates, a real estate brokerage firm with headquarters in Larchmont, specializing in such tony southern suburbs as Larchmont, Rye and Scarsdale and Greenwich, Conn. "Some guys will suffer an hour's commute to get more land. Other guys say, 'Forget it.' "
Peter Stahl is one of those guys.
"It became very clear that Armonk was incredibly overpriced and that if you went north you got more bang for your dollar," he said, referring to the hamlet in the town of North Castle where trees start to dominate the landscape.
"If you went north of Chappaqua," he continued, "you got significantly more for your dollar. Somehow, the Chappaqua commute seemed like a magical threshold. A lot of people are willing to spend 55 minutes on the train but not a moment longer."
Mr. Stahl has a 58-minute commute on the express train from Katonah to Grand Central Terminal and then a half-hour subway ride to Wall Street. "Would I like a shorter commute?" he said. "Yeah. But it's worth every minute. I see it as the cost of doing business."
Two-career couples who are both commuting have a tougher time. Some choose the northern suburbs, but those who are parents gravitate toward the southern fringe so both spouses are not away from their children for 11-hour stretches.
Asked about their ability to live where they do if Mrs. Stahl also worked in Manhattan, Mr. Stahl said, "Our both commuting into the city wouldn't be manageable with very small children." Mrs. Stahl was even more succinct: "It would not be feasible."
Those considerations compelled Janet and Michael Stoner, who have two young girls, ages 2 and 3, to cast a relatively narrow net for a house. "It was almost like we took a compass and drew an inch or two around Manhattan," said Ms. Stoner, 36, a director of investor relations at DLJ Asset Management in Manhattan.
They chose Hastings-on-Hudson and its 30-minute Metro-North express. The choice recently paid off when their 2-year-old daughter, Molly, suddenly developed an asthmatic condition. "I bombed home in 30 or 40 minutes," Ms. Stoner said, "and was able to scoot her to the doctor. To us it's worth the tradeoff of the greater congestion and higher taxes and higher home prices."
Whether they are in the north or the south, residents are sometimes astounded to see how the other half lives. During house-hunting trips or forays to friends' houses, they get a look at the tradeoffs others are willing to make. And it usually confirms their own decisions.
Recently married, Mr. Pepe of Merritt Associates was scanning the county for a house this year. He grew up in Bronxville, his wife, Katie Haynes-Pepe, in Rye. They are now homeowners in Larchmont. "We looked up in Bedford and Pound Ridge, and it was culture shock," he said. "Up there, it's more spread out. Your neighbor could be a few acres away rather than next door. When we came here, our neighbors greeted us and welcomed us."
A mother of three who works part time in a children's clothing store, Barbara Turitzin lives with her husband, John, in a six-bedroom house on two-and-a-half wooded acres in Chappaqua. "I can scream and no one will hear me," she said. She loves the solitude, the privacy and the space.
The couple recently ventured south to visit friends in Scarsdale and, like Mr. Pepe, did a double take. "The house is gorgeous," Mrs. Turitzin said, "but they're on top of their neighbors. Basically, the house is taking up every inch, and there's a tiny lawn. They're used to seeing homes like that, but to us it's ridiculous."
Mrs. Turitzin is quick to point out her area's drawbacks, however. She has never met the man who lives across the street, and her children have to be shuttled to friends' houses. ("Here I live in a neighborhood, but there's not a sense of neighborhood.") And because of her husband's long hours -- he leaves the house at 6 a.m. and not uncommonly returns at 10 p.m. or even midnight -- they see each other infrequently during the week.
Still, she detects a defensiveness in the voices of those who live in southern Westchester, she said. "They say: 'Why should I live in northern Westchester? I love southern Westchester,' " she said. "You can get used to a long commute, but how do you get used to not getting more for your money?"
As a scholar of Westchester County government and a resident who has lived both north and south, Anthony A. Cupaiuolo is a detached observer, a diplomat and, above all, a realist. He used to live in Greenburgh on a quarter acre and now lives in Bedford on one acre. Does he miss knowing a radius of 20 to 30 families? Sure. Does he enjoy the open space that surrounds him now? You bet.
"Much of Westchester offers really great quality of life," said Mr. Cupaiuolo, director of the Michaelian Institute for Public Policy and Management at Pace University in White Plains. "I can't say one is better than the other. You can't have everything."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A property with trees and space to spare in North Salem, above. (James Estrin/The New York Times); A crowd of Metro-North commuters outside the Scarsdale train station. (Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Drawing (Phil Marden)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PAUL HASTINGS LLP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SUBURBS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); RETAILERS (73%); SOCCER (72%); DOGS (72%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



209 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Election Reveals Cracks in Suffolk G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
THERE was a time when Suffolk County was known as the Wild West -- or East -- of New York politics, a shoot'em-up, freewheeling place where anything could happen, and usually did.
Until this year, Republican lawmakers in Nassau had nearly always enjoyed a veto-proof majority. But in Suffolk, Republican power has been offset by a stronger Democratic presence in the County Legislature, and the two parties have had to do horse trading to pass legislation. 
 At present, Republicans hold a slim majority in the Suffolk Legislature. But over the last few years, bipartisan conflicts have taken a back seat to political bickering among fellow Republicans.
The party infighting continued last Monday with the annual election of the Legislature's presiding officer, held during the organizational meeting at the Brentwood campus of Suffolk Community College.
Legislator Paul Tonna, a West Hills Republican with a demonstrated skill in forging allegiances with Democrats, was elected on the first ballot to become presiding officer, the second-highest-ranking public official in Suffolk.
Mr. Tonna, 41, who was elected to the $82,500-a-year post with seven Democratic and four Republican votes in a legislature where Republicans hold a 10-to-8 majority, said his tenure would be characterized by bipartisan harmony, legislative independence and a more caring government.
But signs of behind-the-scenes unrest soon emerged.
Legislator Allan Binder, a Huntington Republican who wanted the seat himself, accused the Suffolk Republican chairman, Anthony Apollaro, of giving away the seat -- which carries powers of patronage and committee appointments -- by countenancing Republican participation in the bipartisan coalition that had backed Mr. Tonna.
Mr. Binder said he had 6 of the 10 Republican votes, enough under party rules to compel the four holdouts to back him. Then, he said, Mr. Apollaro changed the rules.
Mr. Apollaro responded that the rules require a nominee for presiding officer to have the support of the party chairman of his or her town. The Republican leader of Huntington did not support Mr. Binder, Mr. Apollaro said.
Mr. Apollaro, of Brookhaven, a former top aide to County Executive Robert J. Gaffney, was unable to persuade all 10 Republican legislators to back Mr. Tonna.
Mr. Apollaro said Fred W. Towle Jr. of Shirley, one of the resistant Republicans, may have tried to intimidate him with a loaded pistol on New Year's Eve, three days before the legislative vote.
Mr. Apollaro said Mr. Towle had come to his office for a meeting carrying a concealed pistol, which he placed on Mr. Apollaro's desk while Mr. Apollaro was out of the room. Mr. Apollaro said the gun was pointing toward his seat when he returned.
Mr. Towle, who said he has a permit to carry a concealed handgun, denied Mr. Apollaro's account. He said he was showing the 9-millimeter weapon to John Bivona, the Brookhaven Republican chairman, who was also at the meeting and who was interested in buying the gun.
People familiar with Suffolk politics traced the intraparty friction to Brookhaven's decline as a center of power and patronage following the fall of John Powell, the former Brookhaven and Suffolk Republican chairman who was convicted last year of federal charges of taking bribes from a garbage hauler at a town landfill.
After the election, Mr. Tonna said he felt like the survivor of a political gun fight. "It was like the O.K. Corral," he said, "with people shooting everywhere, and the one left standing assumed the leadership."
Mr. Tonna said the county had little to fear but the inevitable end of economic good times.
"People are asleep because times are so good," he said. "And that's when you have to worry. We've had the seven years of feast. Now we have to prepare for the seven years of famine."
He said the county needed to lessen its dependence on sales tax revenue, which is likely to decrease in an eventual economic downturn.
A 10 percent increase in county sales tax revenue last year over 1998 contributed to an expected $49 million surplus in the general fund for 1999, according to Standard & Poor's, the credit-rating agency. It said the county's financial outlook was stable, but added that its practice of keeping "minimal reserve levels" in its budgets made it vulnerable if the economy faltered.
Frederick B. Pollert, director of the Suffolk Legislature's Office of Budget Review, said he expected the 1999 surplus to be $65 million when all revenue was accounted for.
"Barring unforeseen events, we should end 2000 on a very positive note," he said.
Last year, the legislators voted to turn over to Mr. Gaffney their biggest problem: negotiating a settlement with the Long Island Power Authority over taxes on the Shoreham nuclear power plant. The power authority says the county owes it $1.4 billion for overassessing the plant.
Bert Cunningham, a spokesman for the Long Island Power Authority, said last week that talks with Mr. Gaffney were continuing.
Mr. Tonna said he was content to leave the settlement talks to Mr. Gaffney. In a report issued last month, Standard & Poor's said it expected that a settlement would allow Suffolk to pay off the judgment in the form of higher electricity rates already in effect throughout the county. "It is not expected that the county would be required to make large cash payments," the agency said.
Mr. Tonna said he would use his new position as a bully pulpit on behalf of the poor and disadvantaged.
He said he was distressed by social service policies that in one recent case led the county to force a mother out of a homeless shelter and place her two children in foster care.
The family has since been reunited, but Mr. Tonna said he wanted the county to establish "an early-warning system for families in crisis" and pay greater attention to the poor.
In exchange for backing Mr. Tonna, the Democratic legislators who voted for him were assured the post of deputy presiding officer and key committee assignments.
But only minutes before legislators met last Monday, the Democrats were deadlocked over their choice for deputy, with Steve Levy of Holbrook and Maxine S. Postal of Amityville having four votes each.
The deadlock was broken with a coin toss. Mr. Levy won.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Tonna, left, took the oath of office after his election as presiding officer of the Suffolk County Legislature last week. Above, he received congratulations from Ginny Fields, a county legislator. (Photographs by Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUFFOLK LEGISLATURE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUFFOLK LEGISLATURE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUNTIES (89%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); RANKINGS (67%); 

PERSON: HUNTINGTON REPUBLICAN (95%); ANTHONY APOLLARO (91%); PAUL TONNA (83%); ALLAN BINDER (58%); FRED W TOWLE JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



210 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2526 words

HEADLINE: Cell Phone Towers Are Sprouting In Unlikely Places

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE WOODSIDE

 BODY:
THE second part of the cellular phone revolution is happening in Connecticut. Now that everybody seems to have one, the phone companies must put up more antennas to increase service. That has sparked the second revolution, because the residents who will have to live near these cell towers are starting to revolt.
In Danbury, a planned tower near Candlewood Lake upset residents so much they formed a group to fight it in public. In Westport, a property owner claims he can't sell his house because the house next door is going to get a cellular tower in its front yard. And, last month, a family moved out of their longtime house in a wooded area of North Stamford to get away from cellular antennas placed on a firehouse next door. 
 There already are at least 500 radio and telecommunications towers in Connecticut, but most of them have been installed in commercial areas. But as the technology has expanded, and use skyrocketed, the phone companies have had to find more tower locations. This has forced them into residential areas. The antennas are appearing on firehouses, water towers and even on the state's picturesque church steeples.
Signals for cellular phones travel short distances, between one and about eight miles, so it's possible to look ahead to a time when cell antennas 80 to 160 feet high will stretch a few miles apart throughout the state.
The problem for homeowners is that the federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 guarantees companies the right to erect antennas. The law says its aim is to encourage competition and limit regulation. It says cities and towns may control where telecommunications towers go as long as they let them go somewhere. It says local regulations "shall not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services."
Although many municipalities, caught by surprise at the cell antennas going up around town, have scrambled to pass regulations to control their placement, the federal law makes taking action difficult. While the towns can dicker over a location, invoke zoning rules, and urge companies to try commercial locations first, they ultimately can't say no.
Those who believe cell towers can cause health problems find that the federal telecommunications law says towns can't forbid towers based on health data. The federal government has said it has found no conclusive link between the antennas and health problems.
B. Blake Levitt, the author of a book, "Electromagnetic Fields," and a resident of Litchfield who often consults with towns on cellular towers, said the antennas give off high frequency radio and microwave currents that some doctors have linked to disease.
"People don't understand there's another side to this issue," Ms. Levitt said.
Because the technology has changed so rapidly, the Connecticut Siting Council, an agency that controls the placement of utility structures, has watched its control over the placement of towers dwindle to almost nil. The state law requiring the council's approval doesn't extend to the new digital technology -- the so-called Personal Communications Systems towers, which use a different frequency than the traditional cellular towers. The state law calling for the council's review of applications to install antennas predates the newer technology, which means that companies installing antennas for their digital service don't have to apply to the state at all.
"If you were to ask me if our jurisdiction is obsolete, I would agree," said Joel Rinebold, executive director of the siting council.
Mr. Rinebold said the council wants the state law changed to give it more control. But he noted that most people don't think about cell towers.
"People generally don't want to know about this unless three things happen," he said: "a tower's being proposed near their home; two, their wireless phone doesn't get coverage; three, their bill is higher than anticipated."
In at least three towns, residents haven't gotten beyond reason No. 1.
 
Danbury
The city was preparing regulations that would make it more difficult to place towers in residential neighborhoods when, this fall, Sprint PCS applied to build a 130-foot pole with an antenna on top on Great Plain Road, near houses and Candlewood Lake.
It was one of six tower proposals submitted in the last few months. Some residents near Candlewood Lake mobilized against the Great Plain Road tower, calling themselves Families Against Cellular Tower. They printed flyers and held meetings. Although the city's new tower rules took effect in early December, the six applications weren't subject to them.
Then, on Dec. 15, Sprint surprised a crowd of more than 200 people when it withdrew its plans moments before a public hearing at City Hall. Sprint also withdrew an application for an antenna on a water tower in another residential area, on Hollandale Road.
Larry McDonnell, a spokesman for Sprint PCS, a subsidiary of the Sprint Corporation of Kansas City, Mo., said the company plans to consolidate those two antennas into one structure, probably on Great Plain Road, and he said the company expects to put in a new application soon.
"If they come back, they will be under the new regulations," said Sharon Calitro, assistant planning director for Danbury. Ms. Calitro said the city must bow to the federal regulations that guarantee companies the right to build a tower, but that the new regulations will require Sprint to prove that they have tried every possibility other than near houses.
"The federal law says they have to go somewhere," she said. "You can't just say no."
Shanna Raye Mitchell, who lives in the neighborhood, said the residents think a tower will look so ugly that it will cut the value of their properties. She said some people are worried about health problems, but believe their objections wouldn't have a strong legal standing on that basis.
Ms. Mitchell said the group asked real estate agents to guess what the negative effect a cellular tower could have on their property values. The estimates are between 5 and 40 percent, she said, in an area where homes have sold for several hundreds of thousands of dollars.
"We're dealing with a middle-class neighborhood -- raised ranches, three to four bedrooms tops, 2,400 square feet is large for this area," she said. "A house is your biggest monetary investment short of a family in this day and age."
Gilbert Brouillette said his picture window would show him the tower as it was proposed. He said he knows this because in mid-December Sprint floated a 130-foot-tall balloon where the tower would be.
"My biggest concern right now is property values," he said. "When I go to sell my house I'm not going to be able to get fair market value. This is the first thing people are going to see." He said he estimated the tower will be visible for miles around the lake.
Mr. Brouillette, a salesman, said he uses a cellular phone himself. "I am not against the technology," he said. "I have a cellular phone. I have a beeper. I have offered to help them. I have stated publicly, if they would withdraw their application for this site I will help them find a site in an alternative area."
One place he named is the Federal Correctional Institution, Danbury. a state prison near the lake. But Mr. McDonnell said the company tried to place the tower at the prison and couldn't reach an agreement with officials there.
"We like to look for existing structures, we like to go to places where there are already towers and poles, rescue squads, police departments," he said. He also said the tower will hold antennas from other cellular companies and that they often try to share structures.
The Candlewood Lake tract met criteria of the company's engineers "who don't look at jurisdictional boundaries," he said. "They look at holes in our coverage."
When towers aren't close enough together, a car phone essentially hangs up on the person at the other end of the line. "That's unacceptable," Mr. McDonnell said. "They deserve the kind of call clarity they get in their office on a land line. That is our trademark. I'm talking to you right now from a train station on my wireless phone, and I can hear you just fine," he added. "Our customers demand that."
Mr. Brouillette said the residents wonder why people would use cell phones near the lake, which is several miles from the nearest highway or major shopping center. But Mr. McDonnell said customers want better service in that area.
"We're seeing lots of consumers, lots of families, lots of parents who want their children to have phones, to stay in touch," the Sprint spokesman said. "That's where our customer base is growing. We're not selling phones that people just throw in their glove box and use if they have a flat tire. Our customers are using the phone and frequently using it to replace their land line phone. They want to stay in touch all the time."
 
Stamford
Mari Okie Fouracre and her family moved out of their house in north Stamford in early November to get away from a cell antenna that was placed on a firehouse next door. She said they are uneasy living so close to what once was an emergency telecommunications tower, but today holds commercial antennas for cellular telephones.
"About three years ago, someone in the Stamford Health Department asked me if I was aware that the firemen at the Long Ridge Firehouse were adding commercial antennas to their tower," she said. "I was very concerned about the health effects." She said she has read many studies that suggest a link between telecommunications towers and health problems, particularly cancers.
"Our house is a couple of hundred feet away from the tower," Ms. Fouracre said. "We started trying to get them to change their minds. They did do a moratorium on any new installations."
Later, she recalled, city officials negotiated to have some of the antennas removed. But the Fouracres weren't satisfied, and in early November, they moved to a rental house in New Canaan with their teenage daughter.
"Everyone says this is a not-in-my-backyard issue, but on my behalf, the group I'm involved in has been fighting this for years," she said, referring to the Environmental Council of Stamford. This citizens' group lobbied for the city's tower regulations that, while they can't prohibit or shorten towers, place requirements such as a review by the city health department.
 
Westport
Bell Atlantic Mobile received approval a year ago from the Siting Council to build a cellular tower on what is now the front lawn of a house on a short residential street in Westport. The house at 2 Sunny Lane will hold equipment. Nearby are several other houses, a restaurant, the Red Barn, a Y.M.C.A. camp, and the Merritt Parkway.
The decision left David Roosevelt, who is trying to sell the house at 4 Sunny Lane, stunned. He said that in 1996, after he had moved to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, his neighbors read of the tower plans in a legal advertisement in a newspaper. The house, which is on the market for more than $400,000, still has not sold.
"There was a good deal of interest in my house," he said. But the real estate agent was required to reveal the plans for the neighboring lot, and every potential buyer lost interest, Mr. Roosevelt said.
"Every time there was an offer ready to be made on my house, as soon as they found out about the possible existence of this tower, there were no offers forthcoming," he said.
Town officials also opposed the location. The town attorney, Ira Bloom, filed a court appeal of the Siting Council decision. Mr. Bloom said the argument the town used in the case is that the tower will hold some of the newer PCS technology antennas, which the Siting Council does not control because it does not have jurisdiction over digital technology.
The lawyer made some of his comments from his car phone. "We're not anti-tower," Mr. Bloom said, "but we do not believe they should be built in the middle of residential neighborhoods."
Katherine Barnard, director of planning and zoning, denied Bell Atlantic the necessary zoning permit, which in turn delayed the building permit the company needs.
"There were several carriers that were going to be on top of this structure," Ms. Barnard said. "It was going to be quite an awesome looking structure as towers go." She said the town, on Mr. Bloom's advice, took the position that the company needs a zoning variance because the tower is so high.
Bell Atlantic Mobile appealed Ms. Barnard's decision, but the Zoning Board of Appeals upheld her ruling, Ms. Barnard said. The company has appealed the case in Stamford Superior Court.
David Malko, area manager of engineering for Bell Atlantic Mobile, said the company picked Sunny Lane because it was the only suitable site in a part of town that lacks decent cellular transmission.
"The appeal of the neighbors and the town on this just amazes me, because the appeal is more on the basis of jurisdiction than it is on the merits" of the tower, he said.
He noted that Bell Atlantic uses the traditional cellular frequency over which the state Siting Council has control, while several other companies that will add antennas to the tower use the newer technology.
"We couldn't find a commercial property in that area, so we did the next best thing. This property we were able to acquire is adjacent to the Red Barn Restaurant there, which is the only commercial property in that area.
"Yes, there are residential areas around it and that particular parcel is zoned residential," he said. "It was the best site available, and it accommodated the needs of our customers."
The town is writing regulations on cellular towers and will hold hearings this month, Ms. Barnard said. Until now, the town had required height variances for four other cellular towers, but they believed the regulations worked as a control because they all went up in commercial areas. The Sunny Lane site is unique because it's on a residential lawn, she said.
She said Westport doesn't want commercial structures in people's neighborhoods. "That's why we are developing some standards."
The Sunny Lane tower caught the attention of state Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, who testified before the Siting Council that he thought they didn't have jurisdiction over that tower because of the digital antennas.
Mr. Blumenthal said he will write a brief in support of Westport's court appeal of the tower approval. He said the reason is the location is bad.
"There ought to be a way for this process to be more responsive to local objections, because cell towers can be extraordinarily offensive and harmful economically and aesthetically as well as environmentally," he said. "There's no proven case on health effects, so that is not a factor directly relevant to the legal case."
Mr. Blumenthal, like others interviewed for this article, admitted he was making his comments while speaking on a cell phone. "They are indeed very convenient, and sometimes necessary. But again, the points we make in no way denigrate cell phones generally or detract from their importance to our way of life."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cell antennas have been popping up in residential areas. Right, Mari Okie Fouracre moved out of her Stamford home, top left, after a cell tower went up at a nearby firehouse, bottom right. Top right, a tower above a Fairfield home. (pg. 1); When Sprint filed an application to place an antenna at Great Plain Road, near Candlewood Lake, residents, above, fought the plan. Left, a house on Sunny Lane in Westport where Bell Atlantic wants to place a cell phone tower. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ZONING (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (64%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (63%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: JOEL RINEBOLD (57%); B BLAKE LEVITT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



211 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 3300 words

HEADLINE: For Landlords, It Was a Very Good Year

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
THOMAS FALUS, president of Cushman & Wakefield's New York metropolitan area operations, put it simply: The year "1999 was the best year of the 25-plus years I have been in real estate."
A booming national economy, a stock market that soared through the year and the rapid growth of companies related to the Internet have increased demand for office and retail space in the region, and the prospect, real estate executives say, is that the good times will continue. The average vacancy rate for Class A office properties in Midtown is about 6 percent, with space all but unavailable in some locations, and average asking rental rates for new leases are close to $55 a square foot a year. 
 The figures vary in other parts of the region, but the trend is the same: there is less space available and what is on the market is getting steadily more expensive.
Most real estate executives say there is nothing on the horizon to prevent this year from being as good as the one just past, at least from the landlords' point of view. Employment is rising, they note, and there is little risk of overbuilding, since all the construction projects now under way, such as the full-block Bear, Stearns headquarters on Madison Avenue between 46th and 47th Streets, and the Reuters building at Seventh Avenue from 42nd to 43rd Streets, had a principal tenant signed up before a shovel went into the ground.
Construction has begun to pick up again, after falling to nearly nothing in the mid-1990's. According to Cushman & Wakefield, 1,477,631 square feet of new office building was completed in 1999 compared to just 112,000 square feet the year before. The big real estate services company reported that an additional 3,292,689 square feet was under construction during the year, but this is still small compared to the 9,028,767 completed in 1987.
New construction aside, the search for space is driving some clients to former industrial properties on Manhattan's far west side, and others to the waterfront in Jersey City, where developers cannot build fast enough to satisfy eager clients.
Of course, conditions that favor landlords mean difficult times for tenants, who find their choices diminished and costs rising. "There may not be any clouds in the sky for owners, but if you are a space user there are plenty of clouds and they are dark and stormy," said Michael T. Cohen, the president of Williams Real Estate Company, a brokerage concern.
But amid the general ebullience, some real estate executives warn that history has demonstrated that the industry is cyclical and what is up now can come down fast. "If you look back 50 years in New York real estate, you will see that the market is an unbroken sine wave with a period of eight to nine years," said Peter Hauspurg, the chairman of Eastern Consolidated Properties, referring to the up and down nature of the mathematical expression. "We are 11 years into the current period, so something is coming soon. It's different every time, but it will probably be the equivalent of the savings and loan crisis."
The insolvency of many savings institutions in the 1980's prompted the government to dump large amounts of property on the market, greatly depressing prices. Mr. Hauspurg noted that the value of property in New York fell 60 percent from 1989 to the bottom in 1993 before recovering by last year.
One economic sector that some identify as a possible danger zone is Internet-related companies, which include those writing software and offering electronic services, news and advertising. They have been among the fastest-growing employers in the city, many doubling in size annually. This has helped lessen New York's traditional dependence on financial services, which has shown only modest job growth despite the soaring stock market.
But many of the Internet-related companies are start-ups, with no current earnings and no prospects of profitability any time soon. Most are living on funding from venture capitalists or stock offerings and many are burning through that financing rapidly as they seek to dominate market segments by growing quickly.
No one is suggesting that the Internet is going away, but some real estate executives fear that if some prominent companies fail, markets could sour on the whole industry, cutting off its source of cash. A rash of bankruptcies could put a lot of office space back on the market with a depressing effect on rental rates.
"As we look out for risks in 2000, that is No. 1 on the list," said Steve Kohn, a managing director at Sonnenblick-Goldman, a real estate investment banking company. "They are not generating their own cash flow and they are burning through what they have at a fast rate. Most only have enough cash for 16 to 18 months."
The large number of Internet-related companies is inflating demand for professional services as well as building materials and trades, said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W & M Properties, a real estate management and development company. "These guys are spending a lot of on architects, accountants, lawyers as well as on wiring, hardware and installation," he said. "But it looks as though it is an industry that will have a few winners and a lot of losers. So when it shakes out, there are going to be vacancies by the companies themselves and vacancies by the service providers."
But others say these companies are occupying space in outlying areas of Manhattan that are not attractive to mainstream companies. "They are on the fringe, in Chelsea, Ninth and 10th Avenue and downtown," said Stephen Green, the chairman of S. L. Green Realty, a real estate investment trust that owns 9 million square feet of older office space, mostly in Midtown.
He acknowledged that Internet companies can be precarious tenants, since they are dependent on securing outside financing. "We recognize that if the capital spigot dries up they are not operationally profitable," he said. "We take some high-tech tenants, but not many. They are well under 10 percent, probably in the 5 to 6 percent range."
Other landlords and property managers also speak of limiting the concentration of Internet-related companies, but those companies have certainly become an important factor in some parts of the city. According to figures compiled by Insignia/ESG, a real estate services company, fully one-third of the leases signed last year in Midtown South were by Internet companies or the telecommunications firms that support them. But in Midtown they only accounted for 4 percent of leases, and were at the 10.5 percent level downtown.
"This is not a short-term phenomenon, and we are going to have to learn to deal with it," said David W. Levinson, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG. "Think about the cut-and-sew operations that used to be in the Garment District. They were not credit tenants," he said, referring to companies with more than enough financial resources to make lease payments. "My view is that we're replacing them with tenants that manufacture software."
Regardless of how they are regarded by landlords, these new companies are preoccupied with growth. Since they need people to fuel that growth they are willing to do what it takes to find the space to put those employees.
Doubleclick Inc. and ActBig.com are both Internet-related companies, but they are at opposite ends of the spectrum.
Doubleclick, which supplies services to advertising agencies and tracks the effectiveness of advertising, has successfully sold stock to the public. With financing in hand, its solution to having people spread over six floors in two buildings in Midtown South was to move the whole operation to the west side.
The company leased 150,000 square feet at 450 West 33rd Street, at 10th Avenue, a property that included the old Sky Rink space on the top floor. In addition to consolidating all New York employees at one location, Kevin O'Connor, the chairman of the company, said, the column-free space was built out to burnish the company's new-media image.
ActBig.com is a start-up that tries to increase the purchasing power of consumers by pooling orders electronically. It is in sublet space in the rear of the third floor of a building at 222 Fifth Avenue between 26th and 27th Streets.
Fifteen people are crammed into three small offices, with boxes piled up between the desks and chairs. Stephen Tsai, the chief executive, said the critical need was to find more space on terms that are tolerable to a start-up company that closed its first round of financing last July 1.
"We have to map our space needs with our finances," Mr. Tsai said. "This is the right space for a start-up, and we need another short stop until the next round of financing."
He said that another sublet would avoid draining the company's capital into the large deposits being demanded by some landlords as the condition of signing a lease with young companies lacking established credit. But sublets are hard to find because those who currently have extra space often decide to keep it for their own growth.
With the company hiring at the rate of a person a week, finding more space has become urgent. "It has become a huge part of my day-to-day operations," Mr. Tsai said.
He said that some landlords are seeking to use the shortage of space as a means of investing in the Internet. "Some of them want to use real estate as investment currency," Mr. Tsai said. "They will exchange space for a piece of your company." To avoid having to do this, he said, the company was now willing to sign a lease.
 
Midtown
Rents Still Rise, Tenants Still Eager
Leonard Stern, the chairman of Hartz Mountain Industries had a floor come vacant recently in the tower of the lavishly appointed building the company owns overlooking Central Park at 667 Madison Avenue at 61st Street.
"The tenant asked us to take back the space on Monday," he said. The next morning "At 8:30 Tuesday, a broker showed up with a tenant and by 8:40 we shook hands on a 10-year lease at $95 a square foot for the first five years and $100 a square foot for the second five years."
Later in the day another prospective tenant offered $100 a square foot annually for all 10 years, he said, and later in the week another offered $110 a square foot for 10 years. Mr. Stern said he was going to stick with the first tenant.
That is the way it was in Midtown office market, particularly in well located buildings with the right amenities. Average annual asking rents in such buildings are pushing closer to $60 a square foot, with $70 to $75 a square foot not uncommon, brokers said.
Since most real estate executives say rents over $70 a square foot financially justifies new construction, some projects are expected to go forward, although the scarcity of sites suitable for building is expected to limit their number.
"New York needs a speculative building or two," said Kevin F. Haggarty, the executive managing director of Insignia/ESG's capital advisers group. "There's nothing to worry about; they would lease up without trouble. There's not enough sites in the city to overbuild if we wanted two."
Mr. Stern said rental costs were not a significant factor to the boutique money management firms that have broken away from the big Wall Street companies. "Our floors are 7,700 square feet," he said. "You can manage $2 billion in that amount of space, so rent is not an onerous cost for them."
 
Downtown
Apartment Developers Think Commercial
Downtown continues to be a lower-cost alternative for companies reluctant to pay Midtown rates. The vacancy rate in Class A buildings fell to 7.7 percent near the end of the year, while Class A asking rentals have reached almost $37 a square foot annually.
These rising rents have been changing the plans of property owners in the area. "A lot of would-be residential developers are reconsidering their plans," said William G. Cohen, an executive vice president of Newmark & Company Real Estate. In the early part of the decade, when older office buildings were declared functionally obsolete and doomed to stand empty, conversion to residences seemed the only opportunity to realize value from them.
But the rising rental rates -- even Class B buildings can command $27 a square foot annually -- are changing the economics of those conversions, he said. "Residential rents approximate $42 a square foot, but it costs 40 to 50 percent more to do residential than commercial," Mr. Cohen said. "When you can get $27 a foot with a 3 percent compounded annual escalation, most people are leaning toward staying commercial."
One good example of this trend is the building at 48 Wall Street, the former headquarters of the Bank of New York. "That building was held vacant for residential conversion," said Michael T. Cohen of Williams. "But it is not being converted, it is going to be used for offices."
He said that as demand for office space continues to outstrip supply this year more of the older buildings concentrated downtown would become candidates for upgrading for modern tenants.
 
Building Sales
Prices Recover After Late-'98 Decline
Prices of buildings in New York recovered last year, after declining in late 1998 because of the turmoil in capital markets in the fall of that year, sales brokers reported.
"Prices peaked in the summer of 1998 and then fell back," said Warren M. Heller, managing director of Jones Lang LaSalle's investment banking group. "But Midtown has recovered back to the highs of the 1980's, although downtown is two years behind."
He said the outlook for pricing this year is firmly connected to the direction of rents. "It is difficult to see any case where rents do not grow," he said.
The number of sales fell last year compared to 1998, said Mr. Hauspurg of Eastern Consolidated. "The number of transactions declined, although pricing remained strong," he said. "The people who wanted to be sellers have sold."
There is plenty of capital available to finance purchases, said John D. Lyons, executive managing director of Granite Partners, a real estate investment banking firm. But, he said, higher prices for properties have meant lower returns, and some of the money raised to purchase real estate was not invested."In 1999, opportunity funds raised approximately $30 billion to invest in real estate," he said. "Some of it went overseas, but a lot of capital stayed on the sidelines."
He said funds that had returns of 30 to 40 percent in years past were reluctant to invest for a 20 percent return on their capital. And he said there may be a burst of sales activity early this year as transactions that were postponed in the fourth quarter of 1999 for fear of computer problems begin to close.
 
The Suburbs
New Jersey Market Is the Most Active
The waterfront in Jersey City is filling up and brokers predict that sites well inland from the Hudson River are the next target for development. Meanwhile, the consolidation of the pharmaceutical industry in New Jersey is filling up buildings and causing the start of new projects in Morris and Somerset Counties.
New Jersey is the most active market in the metropolitan area, with some speculative construction under way on Long Island and lesser levels of activity in Westchester and Fairfield Counties.
"The waterfront will be filled in soon by people moving from New York," said Franklin Speyer, executive director of Cushman & Wakefield of Northern New Jersey. "The demand is double for what is being planned to be built over the next two years."
He said that the definition of the waterfront market would expand, with areas several blocks away from the water becoming development sites as long as they are conveniently located in relation to the PATH trains that are the vital link to Manhattan.
"We're in full development mode," said Emanuel Stern, the president of Hartz Mountain and the son of Leonard. He said the company is building 70 Hudson Street, a 410,000-square-foot speculative office building in Jersey City and the 205-room TriBeCa Grand Hotel in Manhattan, and is rebuilding the Chart House Restaurant at the end of a pier in Weehawken. It is also, he said, working on plans for Waverly Yards, a 65-acre mixed-use development near Newark Airport.
Meanwhile, the merger of Hoechst and Rhone-Poulenc to form Aventis Pharmaceuticals last year is prompting the construction of two 310,000-square-foot buildings at SJP Properties' Somerset Corporate Center in Bridgewater. The first is expected to be ready for occupancy in the first quarter of 2001 and will be the company's North American commercial headquarters.
Earlier, Aventis leased 340,000 square feet in SJP's Morris Corporate Center in Parsippany as an interim headquarters.
On Long Island, Reckson Associates Realty Trust is building a speculative 277,000-square-foot office building in Melville that is scheduled to be completed this fall. Mitchell Rechler, the co-chief operating officer of the real estate investment trust, said that pre-leasing, often a must to get financing in New York City, is rare on Long Island.
"We have built over 4 million square feet of property on speculation," he said.
The market in Fairfield County in Connecticut remained tight, with a 10.4 percent vacancy rate at the end of the third quarter. The vacancy rate in nearby Westchester remained considerably higher at 16.2 percent, which real estate executives said was the result of the abandoning of hard-to-divide headquarters buildings by large corporations.
 
Retail
Prime-Area Rents Hit New Highs
Rents in prime shopping areas of the city hit new heights last year, according to Faith H. Consolo, vice chairman of Garrick-Aug Associates, a brokerage company specializing in retail properties. "On Madison Avenue between 57th and 72nd Street, rents went up to $700 a square foot, and for new properties in 2000 they are asking $1,000 a square foot," she said.
Ms. Consolo said that $100 a square foot was the minimum today in almost any area of Manhattan, but that some property owners were in danger of pricing themselves out of the market because retailers paying high rents have difficulty earning profits.
Alan Victor, an executive vice president of Lansco Corporation, said some retailers have grown resistant to demands for higher rents from landlords. "It is getting tougher to make deals," he said. "The market has gotten tighter everywhere on Madison, Fifth Avenue and SoHo."
This has led some retailers to move into areas once considered off the beaten track. "Chelsea is a big play right now," he said.
 
Hotels
Occupancy Steady, Room Rates Up
Occupancy rates at New York hotels declined in the first half of 1999 compared to the previous year, but picked up in the second half to close at 82.4 percent, just a 0.4 percent decline from 1998, according to figures compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm.
The average daily rate for hotel rooms increased 3.9 percent to $200.96 during the year, but the increase was well below the 10.6 percent and 11 percent increases in the previous two years.
The highest priced hotels may see a falloff in occupancy this year, said Sean Hennessey, director of the firm's New York hospitality practice. "At the upper levels," he said, "New York is priced out of the market for the common guy." Average room rates in the deluxe segment, which includes the Four Seasons and the Pierre, are $408 a night, he said, while those in the luxury segment, covering hotels such as the Waldorf and the Plaza, have been averaging $266 a night.
Several new hotels are scheduled to open this year, including a Doubletree on 41st Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, a Sofitel at 45 West 44th Street, and an Embassy Suites in Battery Park City.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kevin O'Connor of Doubleclick, which leased a former ice rink atop 450 West 33rd Street. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. 1); Leonard Stern in his office in the lavishly appointed building his company owns overlooking Central Park at 667 Madison Avenue at 61st Street. He said he is renting space for $95 a square foot annually. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times); Stephen Tsai, chief executive officer of ActBig.com, with Kate Gace, chief operating officer, and staff members in small sublet space at 222 Fifth Avenue. Fifteen people are crammed into three small offices. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) (pg. 6)
 
Graphs: "Vacancy Rates" shows vacancy rates for Class A Manhattan office buildings from '92 to '99; "Asking Rents" shows average rent per square foot for Class A buildings in Manhattan from '92 to '99 (pg. 1); "Office Space Tightens, Rents Rise" shows vacancy rates and asking rents for Class A office building and other Class A buildings in Midtown and Downtown Manhattan from '92 to '99; "Construction Returns" shows square feet of new office space in Manhattan from '90 to '99 (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (85%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (85%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CITIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); TRENDS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



212 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Donna Axel and David Rosen

 BODY:
Donna Kori Axel and David Marc Rosen are to be married today by Rabbi Valerie Lieber at the Palisadium restaurant in Cliffside Park, N.J.
Ms. Axel, 32, is keeping her name. She is a consultant to the department of economic and social affairs at the United Nations and teaches constitutional law at the New School University in New York. She graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles and the City University of New York School of Law. She is the daughter of Dr. Mary Mandis of Fort Lee, N.J., and the late Kenneth Axel. Her mother is a psychologist in New York and Creskill, N.J. The bride's father was a psychotherapist in New York. 
 Mr. Rosen, 33, is an assistant deputy public defender in Newark. A graduate of Colby College, he received a master's degree in philosophy from Syracuse University and a law degree from Cornell University. He is a son of Suzanne and Arthur Rosen of Wayne, N.J. His mother teaches in the resource room at Butler (N.J.) High School. His father is a business appraiser and consultant in Wayne. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (53%); 

PERSON: AXEL, DONNA KORI; ROSEN, DAVID MARC DAVID MARC ROSEN (75%); DAVID ROSEN (55%); VALERIE LIEBER (55%); DONNA KORI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



213 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 10; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
What a Deal. Bayonne Lures Kosher Winery.

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

 BODY:
Pushed out by the appetite for new housing among the rapidly growing Hasidic community, one of the country's largest producers of kosher wine plans to close its operation in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn and relocate to Bayonne.
"We are still New York boys and we would love to stay, but we are not wanted," said David Herzog, the chief executive of the company, named Royal Wine Corporation but commonly called Kedem after one of its labels. 
 The State of New Jersey offered Royal $600,000 in grants and $8.1 million in low-interest loans to move to Bayonne.
Mr. Herzog said he told city officials he would prefer to stay in Williamsburg if the city agreed to lease him an brewery so he could expand the business. But the city never made him a firm offer, he said, and last month he signed a deal to buy a 180,000-square-foot warehouse in Bayonne.
The arrangement to move to Bayonne was sweet in another way as well.
Mr. Herzog said most of his wines and supplies come through the Port of Elizabeth, and he estimates that moving to Bayonne would cut his annual shipping costs by at least $100,000.
"Even bringing empty bottles into New York City is expensive," he said.
In a statement, New York City's Economic Development Corporation said that the brewery was unavailable because the city was considering it for housing. It added that it had discussed alternative sites in the city and financial aid with Mr. Herzog, but that he was only interested in the brewery.
During the 1997 election, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani promised Hasidic residents and local politicians he would consider the brewery site for new housing.
"I understand the city has pressure from the community for housing and it's a tightrope to juggle," Mr. Herzog said.
Councilman Noach Dear said he was still pushing the city to try to keep the company and the jobs, mostly held by Hasidic Jews, in Williamsburg. "The city can't afford to lose companies like this," he said.
But Assemblyman Vito Lopez, a Democrat who has won financing for thousands of units of housing in Williamsburg and Bushwick, disagreed. "There is such a high demand for housing in Williamsburg that affordable housing would be a priority over the retention of jobs," he said.
Royal Wine, which moved from Czechoslovakia to New York in 1948, employs about 100 workers at the height of the bottling season, just before Passover. It will expand to at least 140 workers at the seven-acre Bayonne site, where it will move in May.
Bayonne has been waging an aggressive campaign to lure midsize businesses that cannot find industrial space in New York. Last spring, the city enticed Imperial Bag and Paper of Hunts Point, the Bronx, to cross the Hudson.
"Companies are having a hard time finding space in New York," said Michael O'Connor, executive director of the Bayonne Economic Development Corporation.
Mr. O'Connor said his city was after more than just the jobs Royal would bring: "David Herzog promised he'd help get us a kosher deli."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bayonne offered Royal Wine, one of the country's largest producers of kosher wine, incentive to move there and close its plant in Brooklyn, left. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL WINE CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); WINERIES (90%); CITIES (89%); BREWERIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (56%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (53%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



214 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
In a Bit of Fiscal Revisionism, Whitman's Bond Deal Shines

BYLINE: By David Halbfinger; David Halbfinger reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
State Treasurer Roland Machold clearly remembers his response when officials in the Whitman administration first pitched their idea to borrow billions of dollars to bring the state's payments into its employee pension system up to date.
"I had two questions," he said. "Is this a gimmick to balance the budget? And does this serve to defer the cost to future generations?" Not at all, he was told: the deal should save taxpayers billions of dollars. 
 It's a little odd hearing Mr. Machold tell this story, because there are still people who say that the right answer to both questions was yes.
But Mr. Machold was not the treasurer in 1997, when Governor Whitman pushed her $2.75 billion pension bond deal through the Legislature. So it was not his job then to rebut Democratic charges that the deal was just an overcomplicated and unwise way of paying for Mrs. Whitman's tax cuts without having to cut services.
Rather, he was the mild-mannered and apolitical director of the Division of Investments, under whose 23 years of leadership the state's pension assets rose from $4.9 billion to nearly $70 billion when he retired in June 1998. He returned as treasurer last August, succeeding James DiEleuterio, who left to run the Meadowlands sports complex.
Having now assumed responsibility for the state's finances, Mr. Machold has lately been filling the idle moments between budget meetings by conducting a sort of revisionist campaign. He began by telling a grateful Governor Whitman that the state's debt load really hadn't skyrocketed in her six years in office.
Mr. Machold, who confesses to spending his spare time perusing the minutes of 19th century state constitutional conventions, said he had looked back at state financial statements and found them skewed in a way that reflected unfairly on his boss. Simply put, until Mrs. Whitman took office in 1994, much of what the state now counts as debt was not recognized that way on the state's books.
A move toward honesty in accounting, he said, had meant that more than $4.5 billion in obligations -- payments the state makes on behalf of the Sports and Exposition Authority, the Transportation Trust Fund and other agencies -- was added to the debt column from 1994 to 1997.
Had all the newly recognized debt been counted as debt all along, the growth in borrowing in the Whitman administration would have been about 6 percent a year, not 15 percent.
Mr. Machold describes the controversial bond deal of 1997, which added another $2.75 billion in debt in one stroke, as only the best-known example of this accounting change.
He is still not sure why the plan drew such fire. His aides say the bond proposal was the victim of a disastrous job of salesmanship. Word leaked before the plan was ironed out, Treasury officials hesitated for days to explain it, and early criticism set the tone for the debate. Union leaders, who had fought monumental battles over earlier manipulations of the pension system by Mrs. Whitman and her predecessor, Jim Florio, reacted furiously. Newspapers editorialized against the deal, including The New York Times, which called it "fiscal chicanery."
Though it seemed too clever by half at the time, the pension bond deal was surely clever. Try to follow along at home:
The state owed billions in accrued missed payments to its pension system. The missed payments, known as an unfunded liability, were accruing interest at 8.75 percent over 60 years. Taking advantage of lower interest rates, the state borrowed the money at 7.6 percent and paid off the unfunded liability. The new payments on the bonds were the same size as the old ones on the unfunded liability -- but the new payments stopped after 32 years, not 60.
The key to that savings was having all $2.75 billion available to invest, up front. To succeed, the state's investment wizards would have to average more than an 8.75 percent return. As it turned out, their timing couldn't have been better: riding the stock market, the pension system's returns averaged 19.3 percent the first two years, and its market value is already more than $80 billion.
"It was a gamble, and they won," said Claude Poulin, an actuary who studied the deal for the Communication Workers of America. But there has been no stampede of copycat deals by other states. A stock-market downturn in the early years after a pension bond sale can make the whole deal a loser, and few states will stomach such risk.
Of course, what drew the most criticism of the pension bond deal was the governor's decision to use $590 million left over from the bond sale to plug a hole in her 1997-98 budget, when using it to reduce the principal would have saved $2 billion in interest. Mr. Machold, repeating the explanation he heard three years ago, claims this was a side benefit, not the whole point of the bond deal.
The truth is in the eye of the beholder. "I don't care what they say, they really were doing a gimmick to balance the budget," said Jay W. Bixby, president of the National Conference on Public Employee Retirement Systems.
In any event, it cannot be a bad thing that Mr. Machold is so concerned about the state's rising debt burden. He says he is alarmed at the ease with which he can commit the state to millions of dollars of new debt "merely by signing a letter."
He wants to make it more difficult, perhaps by creating a debt limit tied to the budget, or to the state economy. "I haven't talked to any legislators about this," he hastened to add.
Who could object?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Halbfinger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); 

PERSON: ROLAND MACHOLD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



215 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
PNC Arts Center Returned $3 Million to State Last Year

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The PNC Bank Arts Center returned a record $3.05 million to the New Jersey Highway Authority in 1999, three years after the authority privatized it.
The authority, which runs the Garden State Parkway, built the 31-year-old amphitheater and ran it until 1996, when it hired a firm to manage the arts center. GSAC Partners agreed to pay the authority at least $1.65 million a year, plus a share of profits, while the company paid to expand the facility's capacity to 17,500 from 10,800. 
 The arts center's previous high profit was in 1995, when it earned $2.63 million. The center featured 55 professional shows last year, up 10 from 1998.
Parkway officials were initially criticized for the deal, including a provision that let GSAC sell alcohol at the center, which can be reached only by car.
GSAC Partners' executive director, Dominic Ronsace, attributed the record profit to a good economy and increased attendance at the center's Christmas light show. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (58%); NEW JERSEY HIGHWAY AUTHORITY INC (58%); PNC BANK ARTS CENTER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PNC BANK ARTS CENTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



216 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: GREENPOINT;
Cafe Speaks Polish and Internet, but Finds Few Takers

BYLINE: By KATHY KORENGEL

 BODY:
It offers neither kielbasa nor pierogies, but the owner of a fledgling Greenpoint Internet cafe, Polish-net, says he has a product the neighborhood's predominantly Polish residents need just as much.
In the large front window of Polish-net at 151A Nassau Avenue at Newell Street, below a brightly colored awning, neon signs in Polish and English promise e-mail, computer classes, Web page design and free coffee. 
 "There's a market for these kinds of ideas," said Piotr Cieslar, the cafe's 35-year-old owner. He has no background in the field -- he owns a small electrical business -- but he had seen similar businesses in Manhattan and thought they seemed like a good idea. His wife, Agnieszka Cieslar, runs the cafe during the day.
Although the cafe opened five months ago, the idea has yet to take hold. On a recent afternoon, a lone customer pulled up one of the fabric-covered office chairs to a computer table.
"My computer's not working, so I thought I'd stop by and check my e-mail," said Mark Addam, an unemployed opera singer from Manhattan. He likes the cost, too; $2.45 for 15 minutes of online time, which is slightly lower than its closest competitor, Computer Cafe in Park Slope.
Mr. Addam is a typical customer, according to Robert Urban, a programmer who works part time at Polish-net. Of the 10 to 15 customers he usually sees in a day -- the cafe is open weekdays only -- most are American.
Surprisingly, few are Polish-American, said Mr. Urban, who is from Poland. "Polish people are not so rich," he suggested as a possible reason. Mr. Cieslar, too, is a Polish immigrant, though neither he nor Mr. Urban lives in Greenpoint.
If local residents are lacking at the store, some of them may be using the company's Web site, www.polish-net.com. The site, mainly in Polish, offers links to Polish sites in the United States and abroad. Visitors can check the weather in Gdansk, find out what's happening on the Warsaw Stock Exchange or follow their favorite Polish sports team. The site also has a directory of Polish-American companies. Of the more than 700 companies listed, most are in Greenpoint.
But even visits to the Web site have been slow, an average of 150 visitors a day, according to Mr. Urban, and most of them head for the chat room, presumably to visit with friends or family in Poland.
Meanwhile, Mr. Cieslar has yet to break even as the lone investor, although, he says, business is growing steadily. He has noticed that more drop-in customers seem to be Polish-American. "Maybe," he said, "now that they're realizing we're here, they're trying us." KATHY KORENGEL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agnieszka and Piotr Cieslar opened their Internet cafe five months ago. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: GREENPOINT INTERNET (91%); COMPUTER CAFE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WEB SITES (89%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); OFFICE FURNITURE (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (51%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT URBAN (90%); PIOTR CIESLAR (76%); MARK ADDAM (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



217 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Putting New Money In Emerging Markets Yields Big Winners

BYLINE: By JOANNE LEGOMSKY

 BODY:
AFTER several years in the shadow of the United States bull market, international stock funds have outperformed diversified domestic funds in back-to-back quarters.
In the fourth quarter of 1999, the average stock mutual fund that invests primarily abroad rose 25.97 percent, compared with 18.94 percent for domestic funds. All the major overseas markets participated in the climb, including European exchanges that were sluggish earlier in the year. (The foreign funds' average would have been even higher if not for the drag of precious-metals funds, which fell 11.41 percent in the period.) 
 But the real action overseas was in emerging markets. General emerging-markets funds climbed 34.69 percent, on average, in the quarter; those focusing on Latin America were up 38.38 percent. And, just as they did in the United States, technology and telecommunications stocks led the way.
Within the broad trends, of course, was a wide range of performances among individual markets and funds. And perhaps more today than usual, money managers and investors are asking themselves if the recent pattern offers any reliable guide to the next few quarters. The managers of three top-performing aggressive-growth funds that invest abroad discussed their strategies and where they were putting new money.
 
The Japanese Wave
 William R. Andersen, manager of Driehaus International Growth, a $440 million institutional fund, said a surge in Japanese technology was one factor in its recent success.
The fund had a return of 66.46 percent in the fourth quarter, placing it seventh out of 775 international stock funds tracked by Morningstar Inc. (Although it has a minimum initial purchase of $100,000, smaller investors can take a position indirectly through financial advisers.)
The fund has a 30-percent weighting in Japanese stocks. Most are in technology, but some are in other sectors, like the Goodwill Group, a temporary-employment pioneer that provides workers for a variety of industries. "This whole service sector is so nascent," Mr. Andersen said. Goodwill's shares gained 48 percent in the quarter.
Mr. Andersen, who is 40, also credits a timely move into European growth stocks for his fund's success. In his view, European technology and Internet companies, the prime movers, still have room to climb. "They have tremendous potential to apply proven business models that worked in the U.S.," he said. Such adaptation used to take years, he said, but "now it happens overnight."
He cited QXL.com, a London-based online auctioneer much like eBay. Though QXL.com's stock has already more than tripled since he bought it, he remains bullish.
Among emerging markets, he sees promise in Israel, and has already won big there with Check Point Software Technologies, an Internet security services company. Unlike many other Internet companies, Check Point is profitable, and Mr. Andersen expects earnings per share to rise by one-third in 2000.
He is now looking at Eastern Europe. Though he has not yet committed any capital to the region, he said, "this area could be the real sleeper success story of the year."
 
A Sharper Technology Focus
Technology figured even more prominently in the 64.14 percent fourth-quarter return of Merrill Lynch Global Small Cap, an $85 million fund managed by Ken Chiang. It returned 104.84 percent for the 12 months and 16.75 percent, annualized, over the last five years
The recent performance came as sweet relief. When he was brought in to refocus the fund in April 1998, "the portfolio consisted of a hodgepodge of stocks with no unifying strategy," said Mr. Chiang, 38. Now, almost 60 percent of the fund's assets are in technology and telecommunications.
Mr. Chiang looks for companies in high-growth industries that have strong incentives -- usually stock options -- to motivate managers. He prefers companies whose "franchise value" or strong brand identity deters would-be competitors. The fund invests globally, weighted 31 percent in Europe, 25 percent in Asia and 38 percent in the United States and Canada, with the remaining 6 percent in cash.
The turning point for European Internet stocks, Mr. Chiang said, was a November conference in London sponsored by Morgan Stanley. "The effect of all the positive buzz was immediate," he said, for stocks like Tiscali S.p.A., an Italian Internet service provider, whose management has shown that it is willing to spend heavily -- and initially, lose -- to build market share.
The practice, common in the United States, is rare overseas. "European firms stress profitability because they need it to secure venture capital financing," Mr. Chiang said. Tiscali, he added, "is among the few companies that understands content and the need for market penetration." The shares rocketed more than 400 percent in the quarter.
Heavy advertising spending by Internet companies made the quarter a strong one for European ad agencies and media companies that reach young adults. Mr. Chiang rode that trend by holding winners like Saatchi & Saatchi, Havas Advertising and M6 Metropole, a French television broadcaster.
Mr. Chiang predicts that technology and telecommunications stocks will rise further, because investor concerns over high valuations will be more than countered by immense amounts of cash waiting to pour in to the sector after any selloff.
But he will not be part of any selloff. "The appetite for these companies is tremendous," he said.
 
Politics Over Economics
Alfredo Viegas, co-manager of the Lexington Worldwide Emerging Markets fund, was only half-joking when he said, "I figure I have two years of job protection." Quick adoption of advanced technology and a more hospitable investing climate in these markets may soon entice many Americans to invest directly rather than through a fund, he said.
Successful bets, meanwhile, on hot markets like Turkey, South Korea and India contributed to the fund's return of 78.49 percent for the quarter, the best among 70 emerging-markets funds and third-highest among all international stock funds tracked by Morningstar. For most of the quarter, the fund had about half its assets in Asia, one-third in the Middle East and Africa and one-tenth in Latin America. Technology and telecommunications issues account for 60 percent of assets; consumer services, financial services and basic industries make up the remainder.
The fund's managers say they keep a closer watch on politics than on economic trends. "In emerging markets, politics is the better leading indicator," Mr. Viegas said. "Politics determine the direction of the market." The fund got into Turkey with 15 percent of its assets in the second half of 1999 after elections there broke a stalemate and produced a governing majority.
One of his strongest performers in Turkey was Netas Telecommunications, an equipment maker. The company is controlled by Nortel Networks of Canada; the Turkish military is a part-owner. Netas's stock soared 350 percent in the quarter.
Another winner was Vestel, originally a video and computer monitor maker but now on its way to becoming Turkey's largest Internet service provider, Mr. Viegas said. The stock now trades at just eight times earnings, but Mr. Viegas predicted that it would "go through the roof" if the company gained a Nasdaq listing, as it hopes to do later this year.
Despite the strong run, Mr. Viegas said, emerging markets still have plenty of catching up to do. They now trade at much lower multiples than their American counterparts, but he expects them to start closing the gap.
"The Internet has leveled the playing field," he said. "The technology is fungible, and emerging markets have the same U.S-educated brain trust, along with the added advantage of lower cost structures. So many emerging-market technology firms, unlike their United States counterparts, are profitable."
He expects that investors in emerging markets will increasingly shift from energy, mining and industrial stocks to technology and service companies -- as he is doing.
Satyam Computer Services of India, a big winner in the quarter, ought to be valued like a Western technology stock, Mr. Viegas said. Satyam, which is growing rapidly, started by solving Year 2000 technology problems and has since moved into other areas, like providing enterprise software for large corporations and enabling companies to conduct e-commerce.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alfredo Viegas, co-manager of the Lexington Worldwide Emerging Markets fund, sees emerging markets shifting to advanced technology. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); The French television broadcaster M6 Metropole aims for the young adult audience that advertisers covet. Shares rose in the last quarter. (Jacques Loew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (66%); CHKP (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (53%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (53%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (53%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (53%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (50%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (66%); RADIA HOLDINGS INC (53%); QXL.COM PLC (51%); CHECK POINT SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ISRAEL (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (84%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BONDS (77%); TRENDS (75%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (64%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); 

PERSON: KEN CHIANG (81%); WILLIAM R ANDERSEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



218 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 21; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Technology Supplies the Sizzle

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
BUY a technology stock. Close your eyes. And hold on for dear life.
That was the formula for success as a sizzling equity market, fueled by a white-hot technology sector, propelled many stock-fund managers to double-digit returns in the fourth quarter of 1999, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. 
Three managers whose funds were on the list of top performers talked about their winning stock picks for the quarter and looked to the future.
 
Smiling With Growth Stocks
Funds from the Janus family have often been near the top of performance lists in recent years, and the last quarter was no exception. The Janus Venture fund, which leans toward smaller technology stocks, returned 82.8 percent, earning it the No. 5 place on the overall list of diversified equity funds.
"We look for small-cap growth companies with high return on invested capital, strong market positions and open-ended growth opportunities," said Jonathan D. Coleman, co-manager of the $2.7 billion fund with William H. Bales.
One of the fund's biggest winners was SDL, a semiconductor maker in San Jose, Calif., whose stock rose 185.7 percent in the quarter. The company's chips are used in dense wave division multiplexing, or DWDM, which splits fiber optic cable into many wavelengths of light, greatly increasing capacity. "It's a primary beneficiary in the surge of data traffic caused by skyrocketing Internet usage," Mr. Coleman said.
The fund also made money in Enzon, a biotechnology company in Piscataway, N.J., that produces a second-generation version of alpha interferon, a drug used for treating hepatitis C. Enzon, whose shares rose 42.2 percent in the quarter, has a distribution agreement with Schering-Plough for the drug, called peg-intron A, and will get "a high-single-digit royalty on every dollar's worth of sales," he said.
Another winner was Commerce One, a Walnut Creek, Calif., company whose software creates a vendor network that lets buyers bid for goods online. "Instead of purchasing managers calling distributors around the country to track down the best prices," Mr. Bales said, "they just bid on the Internet." The stock rose 503.3 percent in the quarter.
Looking forward, the two managers are cautious. "We've been fortunate to experience a tremendous period of returns that are not sustainable long term," Mr. Bales said. Further, he added, "we have concerns that the Federal Reserve will continue raising interest rates, because the economy is so strong."
 
Sector Within a Sector
If Internet companies were hot, one part of that sector was especially so. "The focus of investors this quarter was on business-to-business opportunity," said Frank P. Slattery, who runs the $228.6 million PBHG New Opportunities fund.
The fund is concentrated, holding just 30 companies with fast-growing earnings or sales. Technology stocks make up 80 percent of the fund, with 15 to 20 percent of the total in business-to-business, or B2B, stocks.
Tax efficiency is not a strong point. The fund's turnover is projected at 500 percent, because Mr. Slattery trades in and out of his 30 holdings as well as other stocks to capture short-term gains. In the fourth quarter, the fund returned 166.1 percent, giving it the No. 1 slot on the overall list.
One big winner was InfoSpace.com, a company in Redmond, Wash., that syndicates Internet content like horoscopes, weather forecasts and stock quotations to the likes of America Online and Microsoft. Such information "builds customer brand loyalty for the Web page," he said.
The company, whose stock rose 420.4 percent in the quarter, has also signed up wireless providers, he added.
The fund also made money in Rare Medium Group, a Web consulting firm in New York that focuses on B2B e-commerce, linking suppliers and buyers and putting their Internet strategies into practice. "It's one of the best and most advanced implementation firms," Mr. Slattery said.
Rare Medium also functions as an incubator of online B2B companies, owning stakes in 20 concerns, a number of which will go public in 2000, he added. He expects the company, whose stock rose 223.1 percent in the quarter, to earn a profit in the first half of 2001.
The fund benefited, too, from its position in Certicom, a Mississauga, Ontario, concern that produces encryption technology used by companies to make their Internet communications secure. Such technology is "one of the fastest-growth areas in business-to-business commerce," Mr. Slattery said. The stock rose 421.2 percent in the quarter, and he expects the company to become profitable in the first half of 2001.
During the first quarter of a year, Mr. Slattery said, technology stocks are traditionally strong. As for how the sector fares later in 2000, he added, "it depends on how investors perceive the growth of the Internet."
 
On the New-Issue Express
A surge of hot initial offerings landed the $57.8 million IPO Plus Aftermarket fund at No. 16 on the list of top performers, with a return of 71.6 percent.
In 1999, the three co-managers -- Linda R. Killian and a husband-and-wife team, William K. and Kathleen S. Smith -- sifted through more than 500 offerings with market capitalizations of more than $50 million, more than double last year's total. They ended the year with 65 stocks in their portfolio.
They posted strong profits from Genentech, the biopharmaceutical giant, which finished the quarter with a 83.9 percent gain. The managers bought the stock in its July offering, when it was spun off from Roche.
"They have a very strong drug pipeline," Ms. Killian said, "and a good mix of mature and early-stage drugs that could be groundbreaking." She cited Herceptin, for treating breast cancer, and Rituxan, for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Another favorite was Invitrogen, a Carlsbad, Calif., company that produces kits used for gene cloning and identification, and for DNA sequencing. The company is a way to play gene research in both the medical and agricultural fields, Ms. Killian said; since its February offering, it has made several acquisitions, including a gene library. The shares rose 78.4 percent in the quarter.
The fund also made money in Sycamore Networks, in Chelmsford, Mass. The stock, bought at its October offering, was up 710.5 percent by the end of the year. The company produces software that lets companies transmit data directly over a fiber optic network without using an intermediary.
She, too, is cautiously optimistic.
"Even though the valuation of companies defies logic, we look at the coming I.P.O. pipeline and still see a lot of good companies," Ms. Killian said. "We don't expect this year's enormous demand to repeat, but there's still a huge supply-and-demand imbalance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan D. Coleman, left, co-manager of Janus Venture with William H. Bales, seeks small companies "with high return on invested capital, strong market positions and open-ended growth opportunities." (Ellen Jaskol for The New York Times); Genentech has "a very strong drug pipeline," said Linda R. Killian, a co-manager of the $57.8 million IPO Plus Aftermarket fund. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times); Internet companies in the business-to-business market helped Frank P. Slattery achieve high returns at the PBHG New Opportunities fund. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (83%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (84%); COLEMAN CO INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); FIBER OPTICS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (69%); HEPATITIS (66%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (66%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); ANTIVIRALS (63%); HEPATITIS C (63%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (63%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (52%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FRANK P SLATTERY (78%); WILLIAM H BALES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



219 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
After a Troubled Year for Bonds, a Way to Play the Gap in Yields

BYLINE: By ABBY SCHULTZ

 BODY:
WHEN people in the bond market talk about spread products, they don't mean peanut butter. They are referring to issues like corporate and mortgage-backed bonds that consistently yield more than United States Treasuries of the same maturity. The difference in yields is the spread, and it exists because these bonds, unlike Treasuries, are thought to pose a more-than-trivial risk of default.
Spread products appeal to two kinds of investors: those who want regular income and those who want to protect their stock-market gains by shifting capital out of equities. For people in either category, now may be an especially opportune time to buy bond funds, experts say, because spreads are relatively wide, making the bonds especially cheap and high-yielding when compared with Treasuries. 
 "When you buy a spread product, you have time on your side," said Ian A. MacKinnon, a managing director at the Vanguard Group who heads its $135 billion fixed-income funds division. "For every day that goes by, you are earning that extra income. You are paid to wait; the question is: How well are you paid to wait? At this time, you are paid very well."
High yields for bonds go hand in hand with low prices, which are attractive for buyers but disappointing for holders, who took a beating in 1999 in nearly all categories of bonds. The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 14.78 percent, according to Ryan Labs, a New York investment manager, and government bond funds suffered accordingly, with the average long-maturity fund losing 7.33 percent for the year, according to Morningstar. About the only bright spot was emerging-market bond funds, which were up 26.21 percent in 1999, Morningstar said.
The bond market sent investors on a wild ride again last week, with the benchmark 30-year bond losing 1.11 percent in total return through Thursday, according to Ryan Labs. But the worst may be over. "The damage predominately is in the past, not the future," Mr. MacKinnon said.
His view reflects Vanguard's belief that the economy will slow down this year, because consumers are "tapped out," in his phrase, and because interest rates are higher than they were a year ago. He expects further tightening by the Federal Reserve this year, probably a quarter-point in February and perhaps as much as a full point for the year.
Most of this outlook is already factored into the bond market, said William Gross, who manages about $180 billion in bonds for the Pacific Investment Management Company. In his view, Treasury bond prices are unlikely to break out of their current trading range, at least for the next few quarters, leaving yields on the 30-year bond stuck between 6.25 and 6.75 percent. Yields are unlikely to move higher, Mr. Gross said, because factors like strong productivity, new technology and globalization will keep inflation in check. But he believes that they will not fall much below 6.25 percent, either, as long as the Fed is standing pat or tightening short-term rates.
The implicit floor under Treasury bond yields means that their prices may have little room to rise soon. So investors who want positive returns will turn to spread products, Mr. Gross predicted.
"In a range-bound world, when there is not much to be said for timing or trading," Mr. Gross said, "the best thing to do is to go for the gusto, and get some yield into your portfolio."
Spread products are not the first place that many ordinary investors should turn for yield. Municipal bonds are paying well, too -- nearly as well as Treasuries before taxes, and much more afterward. So for taxable accounts, yield-hungry investors would do well to start with a plentiful helping of municipals, said Eric Jacobson, fixed-income editor at Morningstar. Spread products are better suited for tax-deferred accounts like 401(k)'s, or for large bond portfolios that are already well stocked with municipals, he said.
There are dangers in straying from the security of Treasury and insured municipal issues. Meltdowns can occur when adverse news sends investors into a "flight to quality," as happened in late 1998, when the Russian currency crisis and the near-collapse of Long Term Capital Management sent shock waves through bond markets.
"If there is a cataclysmic implosion somewhere -- Russia, Argentina, the stock market, who knows -- in that type of world, Treasuries become more dominant," Mr. Gross said. Given the risks, he added, buying spread products "is really a strategy for Goldilocks -- a steady state economy."
But buy-and-hold investors who seek yield rather than capital gains need not take on much risk to do better than Treasuries. Bonds and other securities issued by agencies like the Federal Home Loan Bank, the Private Export Funding Corporation or the Government National Mortgage Association, known as Ginnie Mae, yield as much as two-thirds of a percentage point more than Treasuries and are seen as only slightly riskier, because of explicit or implied government guarantees.
Half of the $1.7 billion Pimco Total Return bond fund, managed by Mr. Gross, is invested in these spread products, compared with about 30 percent for an important barometer of the broad bond market, the Lehman Brothers Aggregate bond index.
The main danger in agency-issued mortgage-backed securities is not default, but the possibility that homeowners will refinance the underlying loans sooner and in greater numbers than expected -- a distant threat when interest rates are rising.
Corporate bonds are another vehicle for adding yield to a bond portfolio. A barrage of new issues in early 1999, when rates were low, flooded the market at a time of little demand, said Mr. MacKinnon at Vanguard. That resulted in wider-than-usual spreads over Treasuries. Those spreads have since narrowed a bit but remain attractive.
Credit risk is the main danger with these bonds, and not just among those rated below investment grade, known as junk bonds. Even the strongest companies can encounter problems that lead agencies like Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's to lower their ratings a bit, causing prices to fall. A faltering economy could set off a wave of such downgrades.
But the economy that Mr. MacKinnon foresees -- one that slows slightly without slipping into recession -- poses little danger to corporate bonds, in his view. In fact, he favors the bonds of relatively vulnerable companies toward the bottom of the investment grades, which offer high yields with little current credit risk.
Mr. Gross also sees corporate bonds as good values. One-fifth of his portfolio is in corporates, and he especially favors securities maturing in less than five years whose spreads are almost as wide as those of their longer-term counterparts, but with less risk. An A-rated corporate bond maturing in five years yields 1.2 percentage points more than a five-year Treasury note, he said; extending the maturity to 30 years widens the spread only to 1.35 points.
AS long as the economy is steady, funds that buy the better grades of junk bonds should also be a good bet. Yield spreads have narrowed a bit lately in this category, too, but they are still very wide: Merrill Lynch's Master Index of such securities is yielding 4.5 percentage points more than comparable Treasuries. "For those willing to assume more risk, a high-quality high-yield fund is a good alternative," Mr. Gross said. Such funds are yielding 8.5 to 9 percent.
For emerging-markets bonds, which have much in common with high-yield corporates, his advice is the same: Concentrate on funds that concentrate on quality. High-yield and emerging-markets bonds together make up about 6 percent of Pimco Total Return, Mr. Gross said.
According to Mr. Jacobson of Morningstar, the best strategy for investors interested in pursuing spread products is to buy a diversified bond fund whose manager has demonstrated a knack for finding undervalued securities. He says that approach is more likely to deliver good returns than trying to time the market by adding funds in specific sectors or repeatedly rebalancing a portfolio of bond funds.
But how to identify that one great fund to buy? He advises setting aside the performance of recent quarters and concentrating instead on long-term track records.
The more speculative stuff is another story. Investors who want a taste of the highest yields should pursue them separately, he said, not in a single diversified bond fund. "It gives you more control over your risk," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Quite a Spread"
Experts believe that spread products, bonds that often offer higher yields the Treasuries, are especially attractive after a poor 1999. The chart shows funds in four categories are ranked by three-year returns through Dec. 31. Funds with assets of less than $30 million are excluded.
*As reported by the Securities and Exchange Commission. +All share classes.
(Sources: Morningstar Inc., company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (60%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BOND FUNDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL GROSS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



220 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 22; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
When Ennui Replaces Infatuation

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST

 BODY:
TELLTALE signs are everywhere. Your partner no longer excites you, and you find yourself looking at other, flashier potential mates. You wonder where the thrill has gone, and fantasize about whether you'd be happier just going off on your own.
Has the passion gone out of your love affair with mutual funds? Sounds like it. But if you're a mature investor, you know that what you have now is not an infatuation, but a long-term commitment to investing. Maybe you realize that one offering is pretty much as good as the next and have given up the hunt for the super fund. Perhaps you have hitched your portfolio to a stock index -- thus removing decision-making from your investments. 
 Well, you're not alone. Signs of mutual fund fatigue are popping up everywhere. Indexing, which substitutes a computer and a stock index for a human stock picker, is getting more and more attention, despite a recent spate of outperformance by active managers. And mutual fund advertising has grown more demure. Once obsessed with trumpeting performance and celebrity fund managers, fund companies seem to have adopted a lower-key approach, perhaps in part because so few funds can beat benchmarks like the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the long term. ("A wise man listens to advice," counsels Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, citing the Old Testament in a newspaper advertisement. "We help you invest responsibly," Fidelity Investments says in another.)
The data on mutual fund inflows also implies disillusionment. Adjusting for redemptions, cash flows into mutual funds in 1999 were about the same as they were the year before and well below the inflows of 1997 and 1996, according to the Investment Company Institute, a fund trade organization. And while actively managed funds have been kicking up their heels of late with some market-beating returns, index funds still reaped 39 percent of the new cash for the first 11 months of 1999, according to the Financial Research Corporation, a mutual fund consulting firm based in Boston. That compares with just 11 percent in 1996.
ONE factor is revolutionary -- the rise of inexpensive online investing. Roughly 12 million households have online trading accounts, and the number is growing. At one time, mutual funds were the most sensible, cost-effective way to build a diversified equity portfolio. In the eyes of many investors, the alternative was an overpriced stockbroker who always seemed to make more money than they did.
Now, however, online investors can achieve reasonable diversification -- say, a dozen stocks -- at less long-term expense than if they bought mutual funds. At just a few dollars a trade, they can buy shares of Wal-Mart Stores, Intel, General Electric and so forth, then reinvest any dividends and get on with life. But a fund charges management expenses year after year.
"The avid phase of growth for the industry has largely been exhausted," said Avi Nachmany, director of research at Strategic Insight, a mutual fund consulting firm in New York. He noted that after growing so fast for so long, mutual funds are now near an astounding $7 trillion in assets. As he put it, "You cannot grow in an exaggerated way when you are so large."
The experts point to several factors that help explain the shrinking flow of cash into funds:
* Investors are spending some of their enormous gains, which is one of the reasons that the consumer economy keeps booming.
* People are squirreling away some of their profits in cash. Some are also nervous about pouring more money into a market that has already come so far.
* Because the booming stock market has propelled so many people beyond their investment goals, they feel less compelled to invest further.
But something more fundamental is at work, too: People's irrepressible search for the new, the novel and the untried has dimmed the attraction of funds, which are now as familiar as an old shoe.
Of course, none of this means that mutual funds are going away. On the contrary, they are likely to remain central to the investment landscape for decades, even if our flaming passion for them continues to mature into a steady, comfortable attachment.
For one thing, mutual funds have given millions of Americans the courage to invest, helping them to overcome their fear of Wall Street by letting them entrust their money to well-paid professionals in nice suits and fancy offices who surely have some idea what they're doing. "If you forced them to do something else," Mr. Nachmany says of many mutual fund investors, "they'd stay in a bank."
Indeed, mutual funds have become something of an investment comfort zone for people who don't have the knowledge, confidence or time to invest by themselves. After all, even mediocre equity funds have beaten money market funds over the long haul, no matter how much the average equity fund is lagging behind the S. & P. 500 Index long term.
As for indexing, the religion is likely to keep spreading. Fidelity recently introduced its Four-in-One Index fund, which gives investors a simple way to invest in large stocks, small stocks, foreign stocks and bonds, all passively managed and all with low management expenses. Similarly, Barclays Global Investors, an indexing giant that has traditionally served mainly institutional investors, plans a boatload of index offerings aimed at individual investors. And E*Trade, the big online broker, offers some index funds of its own to customers.
But indexing, sensible though it may be, isn't helping the mutual fund industry generate sex appeal or excitement. Here is one conversation you'll probably never hear in a bar:
"My index fund trailed the S. & P. 500 by just four basis points last quarter," one investor crows.
"Oh yeah? Well, mine trailed the index by just three basis points!"
The popularity of index funds may be a sign that mutual fund investors, after an "I'll conquer the world" adolescence, are finally developing realistic expectations -- something that most grown-ups will tell you is a key to a good marriage. If people continue to expect 30 percent annual returns from their mutual funds, you can count on the relationship to end in tears sooner or later. But with dampened expectations, funds and their investors can look forward to growing old together.
ANOTHER key to an enduring marriage is give and take. In the future, I suspect, the fund industry is going to have to give a little more and take a little less. Fees will have to come down -- indeed, there is evidence that they are already headed that way. And one reality will have to be acknowledged: It's tough to beat the averages over the long term and silly to pretend otherwise.
That, of course, suggests the true cornerstone of any good marriage: honesty. Or, rather, just enough of it. Too much frankness (like telling investors that fund managers are basically useless) could drive the average Joe and Jane back to certificates of deposit, which will only make things worse.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Brett Heoquist)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (50%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); INTEL CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); ONLINE TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); INDEX FUNDS (76%); BONDS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); CASH FLOW (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: AVI NACHMANY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



221 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Catching the Technology Tsunami to a Robust '99 Finish

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
THOUGH technology stocks took a drubbing in the first week of the new year, fund investors fell into two groups throughout 1999: the have-techs and the have-nots.
By loading up on technology stocks, particularly companies with an Internet component, many fund managers outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. But, as in 1998, managers who shunned such hot growth stocks and kept the faith that undervalued stalwarts of the "old economy" would bounce back were generally not rewarded. 
 Investing abroad, especially in emerging markets, also paid off in the fourth quarter, but not so handsomely as it had earlier in the year. On average, international stock funds gained 25.97 percent in the quarter, compared with a return of 18.35 percent for the average United States diversified stock fund, according to Morningstar Inc.
The growth style of investing, as it has for the last five years, trumped value investing: the average domestic large-cap growth fund gained 28.04 percent in the quarter, more than quadruple the 6.03 percent gain of the typical domestic large-cap value fund, Morningstar said. "There will be a value market again someday, but I may not be alive to see it," said Scott Cooley, 31, a Morningstar analyst.
Technology funds again ruled the domestic roost, racking up an average gain of 61.88 percent for the quarter, according to Morningstar -- although the always volatile group gave back some of the gains last week. Of the 20 best-performing specialized stock funds last quarter, all but two had "technology," "Internet" or some variant in their names. Heading the list was PBHG Technology and Communications, which surged 111.54 percent.
And technology is providing widespread access to investment data. That information, in turn, is helping drive money into funds holding the hottest technology stocks, said Richard Kauffman, managing director of equity capital markets at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "The Internet has allowed individuals to assess the good-performing mutual funds and, that has tended to concentrate the cash" going into them, he said.
"The bigger you are, the harder it is to get performance," Mr. Kauffman continued. "That's part of the reason you've had this bifurcation in the market toward growth stocks and Internet stocks and away from everything else."
Many fund managers are trying to ride the wave. David D. Alger, chief executive of Fred Alger Management in New York, cranked up the technology holdings in some of his funds last year and posted impressive returns. Spectra Fund, a large-cap growth fund that Mr. Alger manages with Dave Hyun, increased its weighting in technology stocks to 58 percent in October from about 35 percent a year earlier, according to Morningstar. Spectra ended last year up 72.01 percent. Alger Capital Appreciation Retirement, another fund for which Mr. Alger is a co-manager, made a similar leap into technology and gained 88.73 percent for the year, Morningstar said.
"These aren't tech funds, but we want to own the best companies, the most exciting companies, the growth companies," Mr. Hyun said. "We want to be where the action is."
Fund buyers shared that sentiment. Robert Adler, president of AMG Data Services in Arcata, Calif., said investors loaded up on technology stocks in the second half of 1999 by snapping up shares of technology funds and aggressive-growth funds. In late December, he said, cash was pouring into those two categories at a weekly rate of $2.2 billion.
"This has never happened before," said Mr. Adler, whose company tracks fund flows. "There has never been a focus on any sector the way it has appeared over the last six months in technology."
In joining the new-technology parade, many investors appear to have shed all fear of risk, continuing to shift money out of more conservative funds and pouring it into the riskiest, least diversified funds.
Bond funds, for example, drew only about 4 cents of every dollar that went into mutual funds in 1999 through November, the most recent data available, down from 34 cents in the corresponding period of 1998, according to the Financial Research Corporation. Through November, more than $5.6 billion flowed out of tax-free bond funds; $943 million left government bond funds.
Municipal bond funds, on average, lost 1.29 percent in the quarter and 3.55 percent for the year. The average taxable bond fund returned just 1.2 percent for the quarter and 1.51 percent for the year.
In contrast, there was a phenomenal surge of cash into the aggressive-growth funds managed by Janus Capital of Denver. More than $35 billion flowed into Janus's 30 funds in 1999, second only to about $45 billion that went to the indexing king, the Vanguard Group, and about 65 percent more than went into Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest fund company. Total assets in retail mutual funds at Janus more than doubled last year, to $172 billion.
If one fund best represented mutual fund investing at the end of the 20th century, it might be Janus Twenty. A concentrated portfolio laden with fast-rising technology stocks, it has spawned a raft of imitators. Since 1995, the fund's annual returns have ranged from 28 to 73 percent as its assets have swollen to more than $31 billion, even though it closed to new investors in April. It was up 38.35 percent in the fourth quarter, and 64.9 percent for 1999.
It even lost a manager during the spree, when Thomas Marsico handed the reins to Scott Schoelzel and left to run his own fund firm, Marsico Capital in Denver. Mr. Marsico started a similar fund, Marsico Focus, which has returned more than 50 percent in each of its first two years, largely through big bets on technology stocks, including Qualcomm. The fund already has more than $3.2 billion in assets.
NOW, Mr. Marsico is starting to swim against the tidal wave into technology. He has trimmed his Qualcomm stake to less than 8 percent of the Focus portfolio from more than 10 percent in November. He is now buying shares of Citigroup, Fannie Mae and Sony.
"This is what we saw with pharmaceutical stocks in 1991," Mr. Marsico said of the technology mania. "When people are this aggressive about getting into a group, most of the gains have already been had."
Concentrated investing -- making relatively big bets on a small number of stocks -- was not always a winning strategy last year. One of the fund industry's biggest disappointments was the Sequoia fund, which had amassed an enviable long-term record by seeking out undervalued companies. Dragged down by a big stake in Berkshire Hathaway, the holding company run by Warren E. Buffett, Sequoia returned just 1.33 percent in the quarter and lost 16.54 percent for the year.
Across the board, value funds lagged behind. Returns for value funds -- large-cap, midcap and small-cap -- were around 6 percent in the quarter. The only categories of stock funds that fared worse were those investing in precious metals, down an average of 11.41 percent; natural resources and real estate, each of which returned around 0.25 percent, on average; and financial funds, which returned 5.12 percent.
The second-best performers among stock funds, behind technology, were those invested in communications -- up 40.03 percent in the quarter and 81.37 percent in the year.
Among international funds, the best-performing categories last quarter were those that specialized in Latin America, up 38.38 percent on average, and emerging markets, up 34.69 percent. Showing how much things can change in a year, Lexington Troika Dialog Russia roared back from one of the worst years any fund has ever had to post the best return of all international stock funds for the quarter. The fund, which holds shares of Russian companies, rose 95.36 percent in the quarter and 159.76 percent in 1999, after losing 83 percent the previous year, when Russia defaulted on debt.
For the year, the top three -- and six of the top 10 -- international stock funds were Japan funds, including two handled by Nick Edwards, a managing director of Credit Suisse Asset Management, which acquired Warburg Pincus Asset Management in July. Those funds, Warburg Pincus Japan Small Company and Warburg Pincus Japan Growth, gained 328.66 percent and 266.1 percent, respectively. "It was a remarkable year," Mr. Edwards said. "All of us fund managers ought to sit down and have a cold shower."
While Mr. Edwards said he did not expect a repeat performance in 2000, he predicted that Japanese stocks, like Sony, would continue to benefit from corporate restructuring and an economic recovery. "What is quite healthy about Japan is there are still a lot of skeptics out there," he said. "People still love to hate Japan."
Diversified Asia Pacific stock funds were the second-best international performers last year, up 90.97 percent on average, followed by emerging-markets stock funds, at 71.7 percent, and Latin America stock funds, at 60.63 percent. European stock funds, up 29.47 percent, also outperformed their American counterparts, up 26.01 percent.
Most big losers among international stock funds specialized in stocks of gold producers and other metals companies. Worldwide, precious-metals funds took a big hit in the fourth quarter, losing 11.41 percent on average; they were up just 3.01 percent for the year.
DESPITE their generally much stronger performance, funds that invest in foreign stocks drew relatively little notice from American investors, Mr. Adler said.
The intense and narrow focus on domestic technology stocks has a scary side, he added. "The question remains, when the market begins to correct, will focused outflows begin to drive the market in reverse?"
What is certain, he said, is that fund investors have more and faster access to information about their investments today than ever before. "They're aware of what they've made," Mr. Adler said, "and they're aware of the risk of losing what they've made."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Long View"
The graph shows the quarterly returns of stock funds. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (84%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); FRED ALGER MANAGEMENT INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); 

PERSON: DAVID D ALGER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



222 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Many Engines Lift Five Portfolios

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
MOST mutual fund investors closed 1999 with fireworks, rebounding smartly from third-quarter losses in a stock market led by technology and smaller issues.
The market revival brought plenty of cheer to investors with diversified portfolios, including the five professional money managers who have built hypothetical retirement portfolios for The New York Times. All five earned double-digit returns in the fourth quarter, and four of the five beat the average return of 19.6 percent for diversified domestic equity funds as tracked by Lipper Inc. All five outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which posted a 14.5 percent gain. 
 But none of the managers expects those heady returns to continue. "I believe we are in a bubble that has the potential to end badly," said Sheldon Jacobs, who edits The No-Load Fund Investor in Irvington, N.Y. "The market is overvalued by a number of measures, and the advance this year has been narrow, focusing on technology stocks. I would look to see whether the market broadens out in 2000."
Mr. Jacobs was the leader for the quarter, with a portfolio gain of 27.68 percent. He rode the strength of the technology sector with stakes in Janus Olympus, Marsico Focus and T. Rowe Price Science and Technology.
For the first quarter of 2000, he is consolidating most of his 15 percent holding in the Vanguard 500 Index fund, which mimics the S. & P. 500, into an existing 35 percent position in the Vanguard Total Stock Market fund.
"While the Total Stock Market is 80 percent invested in the S. & P. 500," Mr. Jacobs said, "the remaining 20 percent is in mid- and small-cap stocks, which I think will do relatively better in 2000."
He is increasing his international exposure by taking 5 percent of the portfolio's assets out of his index-fund position and redirecting them to Asia and Europe in equal measure. Strong Asia Pacific and Scudder Greater Europe will each get one-tenth of the portfolio; the Scudder fund replaces T. Rowe Price European Stock, which has performed less strongly, he said.
Mr. Jacobs retains the lead among the five managers with a gain of 212.31 percent since the contest began in July 1993. In that time, the five portfolios have grown by an average of 174.71 percent, compared with a 277.92 percent return for the Vanguard 500 Index fund.
The hypothetical portfolios' performances are tracked each quarter by Lipper, the research firm in Summit, N.J. They exclude sales charges and transaction costs, and because most retirement money is held in tax-deferred accounts, the effects of taxes are excluded. The five managers can choose from among all funds open to new investors and can shift money quarterly. The portfolios are meant to grow until July 2013, some 20 years after the competition began.
TECHNOLOGY stocks also gave a big boost to Eric M. Kobren, president of Kobren Insight Group and editor of Fidelity Insight in Wellesley, Mass. His all-Fidelity portfolio rose 25.49 percent in the quarter, the second best of the five.
Going forward, Mr. Kobren is dropping Fidelity International Value and Fidelity Capital Appreciation, beefing up Fidelity Aggressive Growth and adding Fidelity Europe Capital Appreciation. "I think Europe could surprise everyone in how rapidly it will incorporate technology into the workplace and garner productivity improvements, focus on improving shareholder value, accelerate cross-border acquisitions and show improved economic growth," he said.
While he is sanguine about the American economy, he is worried about investors' seeming greed. "The percent of household assets in equities is at historically high levels," he said. "My advice to investors is to control their expectations and not become complacent."
Jack A. Brill, who has joined Natural Investment Services in San Diego as vice president, created a "socially responsible" fund portfolio that took third place for the quarter with a gain of 20.73 percent, buoyed by technology issues in IPS Millennium and Citizens Emerging Growth.
Following his view that broad portfolio diversification will be more important than ever in the coming year, Mr. Brill is moving 6 percent of his portfolio's assets into Calvert New Visions, a small-cap fund that blends growth and value stocks, while trimming positions in Ariel Appreciation and MMA Praxis International.
"I believe the coming year will be very volatile," Mr. Brill said. "I am optimistic that the market will rise, but less than in 1999. Technology stocks will continue to dominate."
Harold Evensky, an investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla., plans no changes in his broadly diversified portfolio in the first quarter, despite placing fourth in the most recent period with a 19.98 percent gain. His market outlook is cautious.
"I don't see the large-cap domestic market going straight up, nor do I see it achieving 'riskless' returns remotely comparable to those of the 90's," he said, adding that investors might reasonably expect returns in the range of 9 to 12 percent.
Susan Dziubinski, until recently editor of Morningstar Fund Investor, was in fifth place for the quarter with a gain of 17.68 percent. Ms. Dziubinski is handing over the reins to Russel Kinnel, director of the Morningstar.com Web site, who is replacing all the holdings for the new quarter.
Large chunks will go into the Vanguard 500 Index as a low-cost diversified anchor, and into MAS Mid-Cap Growth Institutional for inexpensive but superior performance, he said. T. Rowe Price Small Cap has the potential for above-average returns with lower risk, Mr. Kinnell said.
For overseas exposure, Mr. Kinnel will place 18 percent of the portfolio's assets in Fidelity Diversified International, a quantitatively run fund, and 8 percent in Harbor International Growth, whose 30 stocks are selected with a growth slant, he said. A concentrated fund, Oakmark Select, and MSDW Institutional U.S. Real Estate round out the new portfolio.
"Whether technology stocks continue to deliver good growth has a lot to do with where the market goes," he said, adding that 2000 can't possibly be as good 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts/Photos: "How the $50,000 Investments Fared"
Quarterly and cumulative performance of hypothetical retirement savings portfolios created and managed for The New York Times by five investment advisers. Each began with $50,000 on July 7, 1993. Weight refers to the percentage of the portfolio's assets invested in each fund. Figures are preliminary and do not reflect sales charges, if any. Susan Dziubinski who took over the portfolio originally managed by John Rekenthaler, is being
replaced for the next quarter by Russel Kinnel.
 
SHELDON JACOBS
Editor of the No-Load Fund
Investor, Irvington, N.Y.
 
ERIC M. KOBREN
President of Kobren Insight Group and editor of Fidelity Insight in Wellesley, Mass. This portfolio invests solely in Fidelity funds.
 
JACK A. BRILL
A San Diego investment adviser who created a socially responsible fund portfolio.
 
SUSAN DZIUBINSKI
Editor of Morningstar Fund Investor, Chicago.
 
HAROLD R. EVENSKY
An investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla.
(Source: Lipper Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VTI (AMEX) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (67%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (83%); KOBREN INSIGHT GROUP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOBREN INSIGHT GROUP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (67%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDEX FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BONDS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); 

PERSON: SHELDON JACOBS (72%); JACK A BRILL (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



223 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 45; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Reinventing the Variable Annuity, With More Bells and Whistles

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
BRUCE JONES is holding forth in a small conference room in the John Hancock tower in downtown Boston, talking about new features of a product that receives a lot of negative comment from experts -- variable annuities. Among other benefits, the annuities may now offer guaranteed returns, even in market downturns, and money for nursing home care.
"We've worked at answering objections to the product," said Mr. Jones, who is in charge of variable annuities, a combination of mutual funds and insurance, at the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, "and we've added features to address things that consumers worry about." 
 But the things that many financial planners worry about most are fees, which for variable annuities are averaging 50 percent more than those for comparable mutual funds. And there is only so much that John Hancock and the other big variable-annuity companies say they can do to pare those costs. Adding more features generally adds more in fees, which can be a big drag on earnings.
"If you're going to buy one of these things you ought to buy the simplest version at the lowest cost," said Judith Martindale, a fee-only financial planner in San Luis Obispo, Calif., who rarely recommends variable annuities. "Some of these features may not actually be worth much. And for things like nursing home needs, you'd probably be better off shopping for the coverage separately. You usually can't get everything at the best price at one stop."
Still, big variable-annuity companies like Nationwide and American Skandia are convinced that customers want more, not less, in their annuities. So they are offering a cafeteria of choices, letting customers pick what they like and pay accordingly. That can make a complicated investment even more so.
Karen Eisenbach, in charge of variable annuities at Nationwide, calls the new approach "customization or modularization -- as opposed to one size fits all."
With competition heating up, the companies are also offering cash bonuses to attract business, the way banks once offered toasters and blenders. Many companies are adding at least 3 percent to the value of the initial investments -- meaning that a new $100,000 account, for example, is credited as $103,000.
Another kind of bonus helps customers use the strategy of dollar-cost averaging -- the investing of fixed amounts at fixed intervals. A company puts an investor's cash into a sort of holding area, paying interest of 10 or 12 percent, significantly above money market rates, as it is disbursed into mutual funds over six months. (The company may offer lower, but still above-market, rates for six additional months.)
Such bonuses reduce the companies' profit but are a calculated trade-off. "It may be a long-term solution to get customers in and collect insurance and management fees for 15 or 20 years and maybe get some other business out of the same customer," said Patrick Reinkemeyer, who monitors variable annuities for Morningstar, the financial researcher in Chicago.
The variable annuity has long been a way to take a run at the stock market with the assurance that if the investor dies, the heirs will receive at least the original amount invested. Now companies will increase the amount that an investor's heirs receive so that it equals at least 5 percent compounded annually, or the high-water mark reached by the investment, whichever is higher. The cost for this guarantee is often one-quarter of a percentage point of the account's value annually.
American Skandia offers the highest guaranteed return of this type -- 7.2 percent compounded annually, which means that a $100,000 investment will at least double in 10 years. The cost is half a percentage point a year, or $500 on a $100,000 investment.
Many companies are offering an even better guarantee -- a promise that the money available to the investor, rather than his or her heirs, will increase at a steady rate. That guarantee gives a variable annuity, which fluctuates with the market, some of the safety of a fixed annuity.
No matter what the market does, the investment will grow by a guaranteed percentage -- often 5 percent. But you have to pay for that guarantee, typically three-tenths of a percent a year.
Some financial experts say such guarantees are usually a waste of money, because stock investments have historically enjoyed average annual returns of more than 10 percent -- and there have been few periods of even five years in which stock investors have lost money.
"These benefits are much more psychologically valuable than economically valuable," Mr. Reinkemeyer said.
To provide for nursing home care, Nationwide intertwines nursing home coverage with a variable annuity, while John Hancock promises to pay a set amount for three years to cover any expenses that may arise from infirmities of age.
In the Nationwide package, to be introduced in most states later this year, a 55-year-old woman, for example, would make a single, up-front payment of, say, about $60,000. Of that total, 40 percent, or $24,000, would go into mutual funds. The balance would pay for nursing care indefinitely at a rate of $100 a day. The amount would rise 5 percent annually so that in 30 years the daily benefit would be $432.
Because women tend to live longer than men, a 55-year-old man could get the same minimum daily benefit for a single payment of $33,500, with 60 percent of the money, or $20,100, going into the mutual funds.
The annual cost for the mutual funds in this package is 1.40 percent of assets, or about the same as for many variable annuities without the nursing care, plus the usual average of about nine-tenths of a percentage point charged to manage the funds.
In the Nationwide package, the benefit of the health care allocation can be claimed only if the investor qualifies for nursing home services or their equivalent.
The plan addresses customers' concerns about their ability to pay for such care -- and offers a convenient way to get coverage. Although financial planners and consumer advocates say a consumer might find a better deal by shopping for nursing home coverage separately, Tom Houle, who is in charge of new products at Nationwide, said customers could generally expect premiums on separate nursing home care to rise over the years.
For the Nationwide nursing home care, there are no charges after the initial payment. Moreover, he said, the customer's heirs would receive at least the amounts originally invested into the funds and the health care component.
The John Hancock plan pays 1 percent of an initial investment -- say, $1,000 on $100,000 -- every month for three years from the time an investor can no longer take care of himself. It costs 35-hundredths of a percentage point. The benefit is paid directly to the investor rather than to a nursing home and can be used for any purpose.
ONE big caveat, however, is that the benefit cannot be received until the eighth year of the investment. That is just past the seven-year period in which Hancock, like most other companies, is recouping the up-front commissions it pays to sales representatives. During that time, companies impose big cash penalties on withdrawals, known as surrender charges -- as high as 8.5 percent of the initial investment.
Surrender charges have prompted many investor complaints; they apply even if the account holder goes into a nursing home or becomes disabled.
Now, some companies will waive the surrender charges under such circumstances -- but again, at a cost. Scudder Kemper Investments, a unit of the Zurich Financial Services Group, lets investors eliminate the penalty should they go into a nursing home by paying an additional five-hundredths of a percentage point annually. The exception for other disabilities costs another five-hundredths of a point. While a customer younger than 59 1/2 would still have to pay a 10 percent penalty to the Internal Revenue Service, the company's penalty would at least be reduced.
In recent years, some companies have been permitting withdrawals of up to 10 percent of the amount invested in the annuity without penalty. Now, at no extra charge, some companies are increasing that ceiling to 15 percent.
All these features are meant to encourage the timid investor to forswear certificates of deposit and venture into the often more rewarding, but riskier, world of stock investing.
"Yes, variable annuities may be more expensive than mutual funds," said Mr. Jones of John Hancock. "But many people would not be in the equities market if we did not have these features."
Of course, there's a price to pay for them. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK LIFE INSURANCE CO (71%); AMERICAN SKANDIA LIFE ASSURANCE CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ANNUITIES (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE (77%); NURSING HOMES (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (76%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); BONDS (72%); 

PERSON: PATRICK REINKEMEYER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



224 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3341 words

HEADLINE: A District Divided

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL

 BODY:
BENETTON could not have assembled a more multiethnic cast than the 50 children who gathered on stage at Fiorello La Guardia Elementary School in the Belmont section of the Bronx one chilly December night. Dressed in mismatched red, white and navy uniforms, they sang "Let there be peace on earth, and let it begin with me" for 250 people attending a board meeting of Community School District 10.
The performance suggested multiracial harmony amid diversity. But as the children filed off stage, a scene that was anything but harmonious unfolded. Seated behind a long table was a grim panel of District 10 board members: five white faces stage left and two darker faces stage right, separated by Irma Zardoya, the district superintendent. The board was meeting to decide whether to renew Ms. Zardoya's contract, and parents had arrived in full force to weigh in. 
 The session, the latest battle in a district long characterized by conflict, was emblematic of the struggles that have pervaded school board meetings since a majority of Riverdale residents led by G. Oliver Koppell, the former state attorney general and state assemblyman, took control of a board previously dominated by residents of poorer parts of the district. The aim of the new board members was to reclaim the district from the previous majority, which they believed was responsible for a precipitous decline in academic standards and in white, middle-class enrollment in Riverdale schools, once considered among the city's best.
After the new board's victory in May, its main goal was to expand Middle School 141 to create a neighborhood high school in Riverdale. The new school, the board asserted, would alleviate overcrowding at John F. Kennedy High School in Marble Hill, the public high school attended by most children from the district's eastern part. The board also hoped to attract families that had long avoided Kennedy, a large school known for its winning football teams but not for its academics.
To make room for the new high school, the plan called for redrawing the lines of the district school zones, which would have the effect of excluding about 200 children from Marble Hill, a largely poor minority neighborhood. The local school board approved the plan in November, and it is being reviewed by the central Board of Education, which seems to favor it.
The story of this plan and the controversy swirling around it involves many issues, not just education, but also race and class, and the political battles that erupt when different constituencies fight over the same turf. It is a story about people behaving badly in the name of their children. At its core, it is a story about provincialism in the big city, where people can live close together but think so very differently.
In the 1970's, Riverdale's schools were considered among the city's finest, but over the years achievement scores began to decline. Meanwhile, the district's poorer residents charged that a Riverdale elite controlled the entire district. Eight years ago, a new majority, headed by Charles Williams, won control of the board and changed zoning lines to their tastes. Many wealthier parents viewed these changes as aggravating the departure of white, middle-class children from M.S. 141 and asserted that their needs were being ignored.
To Mr. Koppell, the new plan represents an effort to restore the neighborhood's schools, particularly M.S. 141, to their former glory.
"Basically, local Riverdale kids were not going to 141 anymore, and it was essentially populated by kids who were not from Riverdale," he said. "There was the sense that something needed to be done to attract middle-class and white kids back to the school."
To Mr. Williams, the Koppell plan represents a defining moment in a struggle that has been waged for decades.
"It has created a major schism, but the schism was always there," he said. "Racism has always been part of the community, but it was taboo to speak about it."
 
Battle Lines Are Drawn: Topography Is Destiny
Unlike Manhattan, where the land's natural contours were flattened to create the trademark grid, providing at least a theoretical leveling of class structure, much of the Bronx maintains its original topography, a series of north-south ridges that make it difficult to travel from east to west.
District 10, in the northwest Bronx, envelops both the hilly, affluent sections on the peaks and the poorer neighborhoods in the flats. It embraces a dozen neighborhoods ranging from affluent Riverdale to the Italian enclave of Belmont to low-income communities like Norwood and Marble Hill.
It is the city's most populous district, with 44 schools and 42,000 students (the next largest, Staten Island, has 38,900 students). It is also the most overcrowded. A recent United Federation of Teachers survey found 1,000 oversized classes, well above the city average of 30 to 50 such classes per district.
There is an unusually large number of Hispanic students (68 percent compared with the citywide total of 38 percent) and a small number of white students (6 percent compared with 16 percent citywide).
In part because of its size and diversity, the district has perennially been mired in political disarray. Many District 10 leaders have long been allied with local political clubs and been caught up in struggles involving power and patronage.
The current dispute is raging in the district's northwestern section, in Riverdale and Marble Hill.
Riverdale, the Bronx's wealthiest section, sits atop a verdant hill with middle-class condominiums toward the east and a few big mansions to the west. For years its streets were kept unpaved to discourage visitors. In recent years the neighborhood has had an influx of Orthodox Jews, who do not use the local school system.
A typical Riverdale elementary school, P.S. 24, next door to M.S. 141, sits on a quiet street where drivers stop to let squirrels pass. On one side is a lush public park and ballfield, on the other a large public library.
Just north of Spuyten Duyvil is Marble Hill, largely a cluster of public housing projects originally built for municipal employees and now populated by poor black and Hispanic families.
The grade school for Marble Hill children, P.S. 37 in Kingsbridge, was built on a former rail yard, surrounded by a vacant lot, three gas stations and an industrial service road. Until a few months ago, the lot was used as a dumping site for construction debris.
The two neighborhoods, Riverdale and Marble Hill, are enclaves, one rich, one poor. The differences are highlighted by the language people use to describe each other: "the people down the hill," or "the families up there." Few residents of one community use the word "neighbor" to describe those who live in the other community.
 
Loss of Confidence: A Plan Is Born
Andy Wolf, 50, ruddy-faced and voluble, runs a newspaper company in Kingsbridge that publishes The Riverdale Review and The Bronx Press Review, two weeklies that pride themselves on advocacy journalism. It was in his dingy, cluttered office on West 233rd Street that the latest rezoning idea was born.
According to Mr. Wolf, the impetus was an article in The New York Times three years ago noting that many Riverdale parents paid to send their children to public high schools in neighboring suburbs, largely to escape Kennedy High School. A hulking tower with a cold, industrial interior, Kennedy was built for 3,500 students but now accommodates 4,200.
"It crystallized in my mind that the problem with the Riverdale schools was not just 141," Mr. Wolf said. "People were looking at the district as a totality and not liking what they saw. Kennedy had lost the confidence of its neighbors."
In this trend, Mr. Wolf saw a far-reaching impact, most perceptibly a "graying of the neighborhood" that occurred because young families moved away once their children hit school age. The indicators were everywhere: a shrinking Little League, fewer bar mitzvahs, the closing of after-school programs, "a thousand little things." The graying, he said, also affected the local business scene.
"We have a withered community life here, no Starbucks even," he said. "If we had a younger, more middle class, hip group, we'd have more hip stores opening up. You need to have an influx of young families always to have a thriving community, and the thing that attracts young families is the schools."
Mr. Wolf noticed particularly that neighborhoods like Douglaston, Queens, were attracting young families with high-quality public schools just when Riverdale families were sending their children out of the neighborhood or leaving entirely.
"Riverdale is close to everything," he said. "I can hop on a train and be at Zabar's in 20 minutes. This is by far the greenest community in the city of New York. The missing link is the schools."
There was, in his view, an even larger issue, a shifting racial makeup caused by the departure of whites. In his opinion, a rezoning would both improve the quality of education for Riverdale high school students and be a catalyst to integration. In 1990, M.S. 141's student body was 27 percent white and 73 percent minority, but by 1998 only 17 percent of the students were white. "That's de facto segregated," Mr. Wolf said. "If we could ratchet the white population up to one-third of the school, that would be a great victory. It would say there's a future for integration in Riverdale."
He described his vision of how to reverse those trends in an editorial in The Riverdale Review on Jan. 16, 1997, then spent months offering details in a series of articles.
Not surprisingly, the plan had strong support in Riverdale.
"The conversation in the local playground over and over again was about who was the next to move or send their child to private schools," said Randi Martos, a co-president of the Parents Association at P.S. 24. "The subject was always, 'Where are you going to go when your child finishes fifth grade?' So we thought, 'What a great idea to add high school grades to have a zoned middle school and a community high school.' "
Ms. Martos, with Amy Kaminski, her co-president, and Andrea Hall, another P.S. 24 parent, drafted a proposal in support of the idea. In February it was submitted to the local school board, which at the time was dominated by non-Riverdale residents.
For several months, they said, they heard nothing. So in early 1998, they began going door to door seeking support from Riverdale parents, and they got 3,500 signatures on petitions, according to Ms. Martos, which they submitted to the board. But by the end of that year, she said: "It became apparent that they kept dismissing this proposal, and they weren't going to do anything to help us get it done. We had no other choice but to pursue school board elections."
Mr. Williams, the board president at the time, said the plan was given ample consideration, but was rejected as unfair. "A lot of people felt that was largely an issue of discrimination based on race and economics," he said. "They didn't want the kids from the housing projects coming up to Riverdale. That's where we broke."
 
Koppell Is Enlisted To Lead the Campaign
To gain control of the board, the P.S. 24 parents and their supporters wanted a strong leader for their campaign. Their choice, G. Oliver Koppell, struck many as unlikely, for by any measure the post of local school board president was a step down from his most recent job, as state attorney general. But Mr. Koppell had lost the Democratic primaries for that job in 1994 and 1998, and he took the defeats as a sign that his career in higher elected office was over.
Mr. Koppell, 59, has an almost hulking frame that contrasts with his boyish face and his gentle, almost apologetic demeanor. He works in an elegant Art Deco law office in Midtown Manhattan and sometimes wears gold cufflinks with his Italian suits. Over a chicken salad sandwich at a diner near his office one day recently, he mused over the course of his political career.
He considers himself a Riverdale son. He grew up in the neighborhood and now lives in the Fieldston section. He has long maintained political links to the local school district and was for two decades an active member of the Benjamin Franklin Democratic Club, which helped several politically connected candidates find jobs in the district. He was also a vital figure in the construction of P.S. 37.
It was Mr. Wolf who in late 1998 first asked Mr. Koppell to run for school board president. Then the P.S. 24 parents paid him a visit. Elected officials like State Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz also encouraged him to run.
Mr. Koppell found the appeals enticing.
"I'm the kind of person who, if you say, 'I need your help,' I'm going to say yes," he said. "Especially if you feed my ego and tell me I'm the only one who can save the schools."
With Mr. Koppell on their side, the Riverdale parents assembled a slate that came to be known as the Riverdale Seven, and when elections were held in May they won easily. According to the Board of Education, 9,968 district residents voted, 5,526 of them for Mr. Koppell. Riverdale voters, though a minority within the district, dominated the turnout. A strong showing by a small but strongly motivated group within a district is not uncommon in school board elections.
Only two people on the new nine-member board were not handpicked by the Riverdale residents: Mr. Williams, who had been the board president since 1994 and was the first black board member in 27 years, and Myrna Calderon, a Hispanic woman who had been on the board for four years and said she ran again because "no one was speaking for the voiceless children of this district in Marble Hill and Kingsbridge." Both saw the shift in the board's makeup as a transfer of power from minority residents toward a white elite.
To Mr. Koppell and his slate, the election was a referendum on the Riverdale school expansion plan. Within six months they had passed the measure.
And the plan is gaining adherents elsewhere. Board of Education staff members who are reviewing the proposal generally give it high marks.
"I think it definitely would help with the overcrowding in the district," said Fermin S. Archer, director of the board's office of zoning. "We know it's going to provide choices to these parents. All in all, it means an improvement of the educational opportunities in that area."
Even the prospect of the plan's adoption seems to have encouraged younger families to put down roots in Riverdale. Linda Justus, a member of the Bronx Board of Realtors who has been a real estate broker in Riverdale for 18 years, said business had tripled since the school board elections. She believes the increased demand is a direct result of the plan to expand M.S. 141.
"Prices are going up because people are moving to larger apartments or houses in Riverdale instead of moving to the suburbs when their kids reach middle school, because they feel their needs will be more than met," she said.
 
The Hard Choices: Which Students to Exclude
But, to realize the plan, some students would have to be excluded from M.S. 141, namely, about 200 children who attend Public School 7 in Marble Hill. They would need another middle school.
As it happened, a plan had been in the works for years to build a middle school between Kennedy High School and P.S. 37, called Middle School 368. Irma Zardoya, the district superintendent, had proposed expanding M.S. 141 and finally building M.S. 368, creating two new schools for the district and thus alleviating some of the overcrowding. But she wanted to allow students from throughout the district to apply to either school. The new board majority supported the building of M.S. 368 but objected to opening the new Riverdale school to any district applicant.
"What the overwhelming percentage of parents in Riverdale want is a guarantee that they can send their kids to 141," Mr. Koppell explained. "That's the promise we have made to the Riverdale parents. And if we made it a choice process, then we could have too many applicants for 141 from other parts of the district, and we couldn't keep that promise."
Another problem involved M.S. 368's proposed site, which had recently been used for construction dumping and abutted a school (P.S. 37) where there had been concerns about lead in the air. In 1989 the city had found elevated levels of lead and other toxic materials on the property, although more recently, the city has said the site is safe.
"They say it's going to be a comparable school," said Ms. Calderon, who was among those who opposed the site. "That's really a code word for separate but equal. And their comparable school is going to be built on a toxic site."
Mr. Williams agreed. "It's nothing short of environmental racism," he said. Furthermore, he argued, without allowing all the children to apply to the new Riverdale school, the district was creating an "exclusive quasi-private school with public dollars."
 
The Redistricting Casts Its Shadow
The fight over M.S. 141 and M.S. 368 and the racial and class rifts it has created have infused every battle in District 10 since May. Back in the fall, when parents at P.S. 37 complained about possible lead problems in their school, some Riverdale board members accused them of stirring up fears just to increase concerns about construction of M.S. 368 next door. The controversy will probably enter discussions on other issues the board is confronting, such as how to raise academic standards, how to alter the district's bilingual education program and where to make capital improvements.
It surely helped to shape the debate over Ms. Zardoya. At the board meeting at which the multiracial chorus of children sang so beautifully, five board members, all from Riverdale, voted to extend her tenure for only one year, though most superintendents receive three-year contracts.
As Riverdale typically sees it, Ms. Zardoya is aligned with Mr. Williams and Ms. Calderon against the rezoning plan. But most of the 250 people who attended the meeting gave Ms. Zardoya repeated standing ovations for what they see as her role on behalf of the district's poorest children. And many at the meeting expressed wariness about the board's new majority.
"They don't speak for us, they're not for us," said Myriam Trevino, whose grandchildren attend P.S. 205 in Belmont. "When I say us, I mean the minority, the Spanish, the blacks, the poor neighborhoods. They'll give her a year and then they will use that year to undermine her. They just want somebody who will go along with their views and their politics."
Christina Stockberger, co-president of the P.S. 205 Parent Association, added: "Before Irma came into the district, we had no one who worked for our neighborhood. Our schools were abandoned for so long. We don't have books. There are schools in this district that don't have libraries, and they just want to put all the resources into Riverdale. Irma, you can find her in our schools. Mr. Koppell doesn't come to our schools. He doesn't come to our meetings. She does."
To Mr. Koppell, the issue is not the superintendent's tenure but the overall quality of education in the district. In his opinion, the recent debate over zoning has overshadowed equally important plans: for expanding programs for gifted students, limiting class size throughout the district, raising teaching standards and so on.
As far as he is concerned, the plan for M.S. 141 is a done deal. He just hopes that the opponents do not block the construction of M.S. 368, without which it will be nearly impossible to build M.S. 141.
As to charges that he represents only a part of the entire district, he said: "Not one person on that slate has a personal agenda. We're only in it because we want to play a positive role. We've been mired in this. . . ." He stopped and put his hand to his forehead. "But our opponents won't give up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: G. Oliver Koppell, president of Community School District 10, with children from Middle School 141. Plans to expand M.S. 141 into a high school have pitted neighborhood against neighborhood in the northwest Bronx. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Students from M.S. 141, which has declined in recent years. "The subject was always, 'Where are you going to go when your child finishes fifth grade?' " said a Riverdale parent. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "A School Controversy in the Bronx"
The board members of Community School District 10 have a plan to expand Middle School 141 to create a neighborhood high school in Riverdale. To do so the board wants to redraw school zone lines in the district. One controversial effect would be to exclude 200 children in the poorer Marble Hill neighborhood from the newly expanded school. Those children would have to attend a proposed new school, M.S. 368. Here is a look at the district and the dispute.
 
District 10 is the City's Largest . . .
 
Schools: 44
Teachers: 2,708
Other school employees: 715
Students: 42,000
 
Citywide ranking (grades 3-8,1998)
Reading: 26th out of 33 school districts.
Math: 28th out of 33 districts.
 
. . . And Perhaps More Changes to Come
For the proposed new school zones, here is a portrait of the children who would be likely to attend M.S. 141 in Riverdale and M.S. 368 in Marble Hill, based on 1997 population statistics.
 
M.S. 141
Median household income: $52,406
Race/ethnicity
 White: 79%
 Black: 10
 Asian/other: 11
 Hispanic (of any race): 15
 
M.S. 368
Median household income: $34,591
Race/ethnicity
 White: 47%
 Black: 30
 Asian/other: 23
 Hispanic (of any race): 51
 
Graphs shows student race/ethnicity percentages and percentages of white students in middle school from 1985-99. (Sources: Board of Education; Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); JOHN F KENNEDY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



225 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Defanging the Great Inflationary Forces

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
WHEN oil prices double or triple in less than a year, that is a momentous event in America. Or at least it once was. The stock market would plunge. The economy would slow, or fall into recession. Presidents wearing sweaters would ask the public to turn thermostats down. And the inflation rate would rise alarmingly.
All this was standard in the 1970's and 1980's, but no longer. Oil has quietly lost its hold on the American economy. 
 If that sounds like an epitaph, let me soften it. Petroleum prices, which have more than doubled since last March, still have a little clout. Gasoline prices are higher; so is the price of heating oil. Cargo rates and some airline fares have gone up. The Consumer Price Index itself is rising at a 2.6 percent annual rate, up from 2.1 percent last spring. Oil, directly or indirectly, accounts for all of the rise.
But 2.6 percent is pretty mild, and crude oil now appears to be edging down from its November peak of $28 a barrel. "We have already seen the worst of the inflationary impact, unless you think oil prices are going to double again, which no one does," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, a forecasting service. Clearly, one of the great inflationary forces in America is no longer performing up to its old standard.
NEITHER are two others. One is empty shelves. Consumers are buying everything in sight, but no shortages have developed to drive up prices. There always seems to be more available, from abroad if not from domestic suppliers. Workers, on the other hand, are in short supply. But instead of demanding higher wages, forcing companies to raise prices to cover higher labor costs, workers are settling for very small raises. The old militancy is gone, wrung out of the work force through 20 years of union setbacks, downsizing and corporate migration to cheaper labor markets.
The wonder is that none of this seems to lessen the concern about inflation on Wall Street or at the Federal Reserve. Bond traders and policy makers are bracing for an upswing in inflation any day now. An overly robust economy, they say, makes higher inflation inevitable, and in anticipation they are gradually pushing up interest rates, a tactic that endangers the economy. Oil has been their latest concern. Only lately have they focused on why a doubling in petroleum prices has lost its kick.
The main reason is that oil plays a shrinking role in the economy. These days, spending on oil products is equal to only 3 percent of gross domestic product, which is the total dollar value of all of the nation's output of goods and services. That 3 percent share is down from 8.7 percent in the 1970's. And oil consumption, currently 19.9 million barrels a day, is barely above the 18.8 million recorded in 1978. "That, in essence, is why oil does not have the impact on the Consumer Price Index that it once did," said Larry Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation.
Conservation is a factor. Americans are driving more, but their autos also get more miles to the gallon, even allowing for gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles. Gasoline prices jumped sharply last year, as every driver knows, but the outlay for gasoline comes to only 3 cents of every dollar spent, down from 6 cents in 1980, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which compiles the Consumer Price Index. That 3 cents is up only marginally from the 2.5 cents spent on gasoline a year ago, just before the jump in oil prices.
Then, too, natural gas has become a big substitute for oil -- not only in the heating of homes, but also as a raw material for petrochemical products like plastics and as fuel for electric power generation. Natural-gas prices also rose last year, but only by 50 percent, not 100 percent. The nation gets almost all its natural gas from within the country or from Canada, while crude oil is a global commodity whose production is subject to quota restrictions imposed by OPEC. By limiting supply, quotas can drive up prices, as they did in 1999 -- to about $25 a barrel today from less than $12 last February.
Against a backdrop of 27 years since the 1973 oil shock, $25 is not so startling. All of the increase only retraces ground lost since January 1997. And oil prices today, even at $25, are below their levels through most of the 1970's and 80's.
 TELL all this to Wall Street traders and Federal Reserve policy makers and they nod in agreement. They know the changes as well as anyone. But they still look anxiously toward the horizon, expecting the arrival of the old inflationary triumvirate: shortages, wage pressures and oil shock.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Crude Oil"
The graph shows the Spot price of West Texas Intermediate crude, plotted monthly through Friday. (Source: American Petroleum Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S DRI (67%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); BONDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); AIR FARES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



226 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Making Stock Cars Family Fare

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY W. SMITH

 BODY:
LESA FRANCE KENNEDY started at the bottom of her family business, literally. As a child, one of her duties was to help wipe down the seats at the Daytona International Speedway before races so that the customers wouldn't get dirt on their bottoms.
It was a great proving ground for a young motor sports executive whose job now entails overseeing much of what goes on at the 11 tracks that are a part of the International Speedway Corporation, based in Daytona Beach, Fla. 
 Mrs. Kennedy, 38, is the daughter of Bill France Jr., president of Nascar and chairman of International Speedway, and the granddaughter of Bill France Sr., Nascar's founder. Her brother, Brian France, is senior vice president of Nascar, the privately held business that governs stock car racing. Her upbringing included learning to drive on the Daytona straightaways.
As executive vice president and a member of the board of International Speedway, Mrs. Kennedy is a top aide to her uncle, James France, president of the company. That makes Mrs. Kennedy not only heir apparent but also one of the highest-ranking women in an industry long dominated by men. In the high-octane, high testosterone world of motor sports, Mrs. Kennedy is in the fast lane.
"She's extremely bright, has incredible street smarts and her people skills are outstanding," said Jim Hunter, president of Darlington Raceway in Darlington, S.C., one of the 11 tracks owned by International Speedway. "She's definitely opening doors for women in the sport."
She is also helping the sport overcome raffish regional roots to become viewed as wholesome family entertainment for the nation. But Mrs. Kennedy plays down her role as a pace-setter for women. "It's not my focus," she said. "I don't spend a lot of time thinking about it."
Besides dealing with existing tracks, Mrs. Kennedy is trying to develop tracks in the Kansas City, Chicago and New York areas. In New York, the Frances are working with Donald J. Trump to find a track location, most likely on Long Island or the New Jersey Meadowlands.
Stock-car racing has been growing rapidly, and Nascar has just negotiated a five-year, $2 billion television package. International Speedway bought seven tracks from Roger Penske in July and added the Richmond International Raceway in December, making the company, which is publicly traded, the largest motor sports operator in the nation. The moves were the boldest since International Speedway was founded by Bill France Sr., in 1953, five years after he incorporated Nascar.
As much as Mrs. Kennedy's parentage furthered her career, it was also a burden.
"Her biggest challenge has been trying to satisfy her father," said Mr. Hunter, who has worked for the France family for 30 years. "Anything less than terrific is just not acceptable to him. I think that has made it tougher for her than it would for any other woman or man." Bill France Jr., he said, has given his children "every opportunity to get out of the business, because he's made them understand it from the restrooms up."
That extensive knowledge of the racing business and her attention to detail have won Mrs. Kennedy credibility among her male counterparts. Nobody doubts her seriousness, but she can also poke fun at her family and herself. Over a recent breakfast at the Waldorf-Astoria a few days before the annual Nascar awards banquet, Susan Schandel, her chief financial officer, joked that running into Mrs. Kennedy in the lobby could mean another chore rather than being able to go shopping. Mrs. Kennedy agreed but then reminded her that at times they both slipped away for some shopping.
Mrs. Kennedy will need all her wit and charm to keep other track owners happy. Drivers say Nascar has already scheduled as many races as they can handle, but the other track owners want more races.
Mrs. Kennedy said that other women in her family had schooled her in Nascar's macho, demanding world. Her grandmother, Annie B. France, who operated the ticket office at Daytona International Speedway for many years, encouraged her to pursue a career in the family business. During breaks from Duke University, where she graduated in 1983 with bachelor of arts degrees in economics and psychology, Mrs. Kennedy worked in the Daytona ticket office and in the complaint department.
"It was great training experience, because you were directly in touch with the fans," Mrs. Kennedy said. "You can't replace that with research. It was problem resolution at the source. You could hear their ideas and what they wanted from the sport. People would come in and say, 'We want to buy a T-shirt. Where's the gift shop?' We don't have one. Build one and sell the merchandise. It's not quite rocket science, but if you listen to the customers you can't go wrong."
That is where Mrs. Kennedy came up with the idea for Daytona USA, a $20 million, 50,000-square-foot, year-round entertainment complex at the racing track. Over the years, she pulled together projections on construction costs, researched the market and finally convinced her father, her uncle and other senior executives that it was worth the risk. It opened in 1996 and attracts about 500,000 fans a year.
As assistant manager of the Daytona Speedway ticket office after she graduated, she also pushed to computerize ticket sales at Daytona. "That didn't fall easily on dinosaurs like myself," said Mr. Hunter, who at the time was a vice president in marketing at Nascar. "Convincing us was no easy task, because we had always done things the same way for years. The big question was: Why should we change if it works? Her answers were: Because it's cost effective, it's fast, it's efficient."
After working in the ticket office, Mrs. Kennedy moved over to International Speedway in 1986 and worked in jobs throughout the company, serving as secretary and treasurer before becoming executive vice president in 1996.
Mrs. Kennedy is married to Dr. Bruce Kennedy, a plastic surgeon, and has an 8-year-old son, Benjamin. She said it's too early to tell whether Benjamin is destined for the family business.
"He's more of a sports fan," she said. "He's only in the second grade. But he does have several computer racing games."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lesa France Kennedy, executive vice president of the International Speedway Corporation and one of the highest-ranking women in motor sports, is an heir apparent in Nascar's royal family. (Sam Cranston for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (93%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (93%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (ISCA) INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (ISCA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); MEN (78%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, LESA FRANCE JAMES C FRANCE (79%); ROGER S PENSKE (54%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



227 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Resisting Those Ugly Americans;
Contempt in France for U.S. Funds and Investors

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
WHEN Elf Aquitaine, France's largest oil company, surrendered last summer to a hostile takeover from a domestic rival, Elf's departing chief was rewarded with stock options worth $38 million. Not long thereafter, Michelin, the highly profitable French tire maker, announced that it would eliminate 7,500 jobs across Europe. And earlier in the year, the government's support for a three-way merger of big banks was thwarted when investors balked.
In the United States, that kind of corporate news might be seen as routine. But in France and across Europe, it is providing grist for a volatile debate about the role of big foreign investors, including American pension funds, in European business. The pension funds are portrayed as demanding unreasonably high profits at the expense of jobs, as promoting outlandish rewards for executives and as a general threat to established ways of life. 
 In October, when William D. Crist, board president of the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the largest American public pension fund, arrived in Paris for a routine visit, Le Monde, the Paris daily, published an article titled "The Pension Funds That Drive Fear Into the French."
"They're called Calpers, Templeton and TIAA-CREF," the article said, "and for the French, who are discovering with a certain anguish the globalization of their economy, these pension funds from abroad are the masters of this new world."
In the United States, pension funds have been long-term investors in business for decades. They are an accepted, even welcomed, part of the financial landscape, seen as protectors of the savings of millions of working individuals and as more conservative and reliable than many other investment funds.
But in Europe, where retirees have long relied on pay-as-you-go public pension systems and many industries have been financed by government or through cozy relationships with local banks, the mounting influence of such outside and outsized institutional investors is creating serious tensions.
In Germany, the government recently assailed a hostile takeover bid by Vodafone AirTouch of Britain for Mannesmann, the German telecommunications conglomerate, as tantamount to an attack on German sovereignty. The bid had been favored by several institutional investors. In Italy, the government has expressed unease at the free flow of investment, declaring the former national telecommunications company, Telecom Italia, off limits to foreign hostile takeover bids and putting the brakes on banking deals.
But nowhere have pension funds and other foreign investment firms set off more fury than in France. As French industry restructures to improve its global competitiveness, it has attracted billions of dollars in investment capital, much of it from American and British pension funds. Now, the funds' role in the French economy is spawning the latest in a series of fierce conflicts that pit French cultural values against the demands of international finance.
Even the president of France, Jacques Chirac, complained publicly that French workers were being asked to sacrifice simply to "safeguard the investment benefits of Scottish widows and California pensioners."
Jean-Claude Trichet, governor of the Bank of France, the central bank, tried to explain what he called "a French paradox." While France has emerged lately as the strongest locomotive of Europe's economy, he said in an interview, "the image that is displayed might be misleading, since the rear-guard part of the economy is more eloquent than the successful part."
THE issue weighs on French-American relations, already burdened by various squabbles. They include an American ban on French luxury foods, to protest French unwillingness to import hormone-treated American beef, and a refusal by France to buy genetically modified American crops.
But the investment debate also complicates life for the government of Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, of the Socialist Party. Tensions erupted in his administration last month after the Communists, a junior partner in the coalition, called for laws banning layoffs by profitable corporations.
The financial trend is clear. In the first eight months of 1999, foreign investment in French stocks and bonds totaled 457 billion francs, or $70.3 billion, more than in all of 1998, when the inflow of 400 billion francs was 50 percent higher than the year before.
The windfall, Mr. Trichet said, partly explains recent French economic gains. Growth in 2000 is expected to reach 3 percent, up from 2.8 percent in 1999. Unemployment, the chief blemish on an improving record, should drop below 10 percent for the first time in years. Much of the investment driving the French revival has come from institutional investors: among the top 40 companies on the Paris stock exchange, an average stake of 35 percent is now held by American and British institutional investors and pension funds.
But rather than cheering their success, many French are wringing their hands. When Mr. Crist of Calpers paid a visit, the leftist daily Liberation outlined the immense size and power of the pension fund, but felt obliged to reassure its readers that Mr. Crist was "no Darth Vader" -- especially since the newspaper ran a photograph that made him look like Darth Vader.
Nor have the jibes been restricted to the left. Jean-Louis Beffa, the chairman and chief executive of Compagnie de Saint-Gobain, the glass and building materials group, accused foreign pension funds of forcing on French corporations "a quickness of change that imposes considerable human problems."
He added, "I'm not sure they're best adapted to Europe."
For years, the French government has been gradually selling off control of more than a score of huge enterprises like banks, insurance companies, industrial companies and even the national flag carrier, Air France. Since his election in 1997, Mr. Jospin, who had campaigned with a pledge to end privatizations, has sold a further chunk of assets worth roughly $30 billion.
To sweeten the auction of nationalized property for the Socialists and their allies in the Communist Party, Mr. Jospin promoted the idea of employee shareholding. Now, roughly three-fourths of all the employees in privatized companies are shareholders in their companies.
Over all, 15 percent of the French population owns stock, far below the 50 percent level for the United States. But the increase has been profound, from 1 percent a decade ago, and at times is crucial in corporate decision-making.
The power shifts were seen last year in an unusual takeover battle within the French banking industry. Last March, two big French banks, Societe Generale and Paribas, announced plans to merge, only to see their plans upset days later by a third domestic rival, Banque Nationale de Paris, which started a $37 billion hostile bid for both its rivals together.
THE reaction of the French authorities was typical of an older, cozier tradition of business-government linkage.
Mr. Trichet, the central bank governor, convened the banks' directors and urged them to agree to a three-way alliance. That, he argued, would create a strong French banking champion.
But Paris did not get its way. Banque Nationale won the backing of investors to gain control of Paribas, but not of Societe Generale, illustrating two lessons to the French. One was the power of institutional investors, not only pension funds but also hedge funds and arbitrageurs, to thwart government wishes. The other was the increasing financial influence of workers, who, thanks to their employee stock ownership plan, held roughly 8 percent of the stock in Societe Generale. Employees, the biggest single bloc, voted overwhelmingly against the Banque Nationale takeover.
Until recently, said Sophie L'Helias, a French lawyer who represents American funds, "shareholders were always the ones writing the checks so management and stakeholders could play monopoly."
Jean-Marie Toulisse, national secretary of the CFDT labor union, acknowledged that French labor-management relations, once a you-scratch-my-back-and-I'll-scratch-yours arrangement, produced frequent strikes but also high productivity and comfortable employee benefits. Now, with the rise of employee shareholders, he said, labor relations has "pushed from a game of two to a game of three.
The union seeks to tread a middle path, Mr. Toulisse said, deeming employee shareholding neither the "alpha and omega" nor "something diabolical." It wants to avoid a division between employees who own shares in their companies and those who do not.
Pension fund managers reject accusations that they wield undue power and destroy jobs to benefit distant shareholders. "Nonsense," said Mr. Crist, whose fund has roughly $2 billion in French stocks, making it probably the largest single investor on the Paris Bourse. He said that France would gradually move away from total reliance on a pay-as-you-go public pension system, but that "this is not going to be a quick or easy transition."
The activist policies of Calpers, meanwhile, are aimed at promoting respect for minority shareholders' rights, independent boards of directors and greater openness in setting executive pay.
 PETER C. CLAPMAN, chief investment counsel of TIAA-CREF, the teachers pension fund, has regularly visited France to sow the seeds of shareholder activism. In 1997, the fund helped to lead a successful minority shareholder revolt at Eramet S.A., a mining company in which the French Treasury held a stake, after the government tried to appease the independence movement in a South Pacific territory by swapping a nickel mine owned by Eramet for a less profitable one owned by local separatists.
Now shareholder activism is catching on, and the government is trying to help. Legislation is being considered to compel the release of details about executive compensation and to require shareholder approval if the jobs of chairman and chief executive are combined, to curb the omnipotence of French executives.
And this month, Mr. Trichet, the central banker, and H. Carl McCall, the New York state comptroller and pension trustee, plan to conduct a public forum here on the role of pension funds in a modern economy. Felix G. Rohatyn, the American ambassador in Paris and a former investment banker, arranged Mr. McCall's visit -- to show the French, he explained, that there was "no contradiction between the fiduciary responsibility of a pension fund manager and the social responsibility of a public official."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: French newspapers have commented on the incursion of American pension funds in the French economy. Le Monde published an article titled "The Pension Funds That Drive Fear Into the French." Liberation offered a photograph of William D. Crist, head of Calpers, in a pose reminiscent of Darth Vader, but assured readers that he was "no Darth Vader." (Associated Press); A plan to merge three banks was thwarted when employees of Societe Generale voted against it, illustrating the increasing power of shareholders. A client and two employees of the bank in Paris viewed a stock-price monitor. (Gary Gunderson for The New York Times); President Jacques Chirac of France, shown with President Clinton last fall, has worried about foreign investors' clout. Jean-Claude Trichet of the Bank of France, below, says outside investment aids the economy. (Agence France Presse)(pg. 10)
 
Graphs: "Foreign investors have poured money into French stocks . . ."
The graph shows the foreign investment in french stocks since 1995.
 
". . . helping drive up the stock market . . ."
The graph shows the CAC-40 index plotted monthly through Friday
 
". . . increase economic growth . . ."
The graph shows the french gross domestic product change from corresponding
quarter of previous year since 1995.
 
". . . and trim the unemployment rolls."
The graph shows the french unemployment rate (plotted monthly) since 1995.
(Sources: Bank of France; Bloomberg Finacial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOD (NASDAQ) (52%); VOD (LSE) (52%); TIT (BIT) (51%); TI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ITALY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: ELF AQUITAINE SA (58%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (55%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (52%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (51%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ITALY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE; FRANCE PENSION FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); TIRE MFG (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



228 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Seeing Fickle Fingers In a Nasdaq Downturn

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
WHEN Everett M. Dirksen, the late senator from Illinois, reportedly said, "A billion here, a billion there, and pretty soon you're talking real money," it was the 1960's, and he was talking about the federal budget.
In the 90's, the standard was ratcheted up a tad. Consider the technology-laden Nasdaq stock market: Last year, the capitalization for the market's stocks doubled from the end of 1998, to $5.2 trillion. 
 The dollar number ran up so fast -- particularly in December -- that few people actually thought of it as real. But the billions that were cashed out or lost in Nasdaq's 4.6 percent slide last week were not funny money.
Kevin Landis, a portfolio manager for Firsthand Funds, which invests exclusively in technology, has seen Nasdaq sell-offs before. He took some time last week from his office in San Jose, Calif., to talk about what he sees in this one. Following are excerpts from the conversation:
 
Q. Most observers were expecting a sell-off in technology stocks early this year, after the huge run-up in 1999. Has its magnitude surprised you?
 
A. I look at this as mood swings: I can't predict mood swings, but I am not surprised by them. I don't try to time market sell-offs, but when I see one I try to take advantage of it. Last year, we had three different dips in the Nasdaq of between 8 percent and 10 percent, and each time it was down for only a brief period.
We have a fair amount of cash on hand, and a bunch of companies we like are more affordable now than they were a week ago. We intend to go shopping.
 
Q. What would give you cause for concern that this is something more serious?
 
A. If we had fundamental bad news about the technology industry in general or any of these companies in particular, then you could argue that there is a lot more room to fall. But there is not a lot of fundamental news that is driving the sell-off. It is psychology. Some investors have been trying to pick the point where they are going to take their profits. And a number were holding on for dear life. Now that they think they have seen the near-term peak, they want to get out. As usual, they all want to do it at once.
 
Q. Still, many have referred to what happened last year as a mania, or a speculative bubble. Is that a fair assessment?
 
A. Every time stocks go up aggressively, people come out of the woodwork to say it is a bubble, but nobody really knows.
Look at the Cisco Systems and Microsoft bubbles that weren't bubbles. Look at the eBay bubble that so far hasn't been a bubble. Most of this is real. It's not tulip bulbs.
 
Q. Does the Lucent Technologies earnings warning on Thursday qualify as a fundamentally bad development?
 
A. Companies miss their numbers. Big companies can have a bad mile and still run a great race. This is nothing more than that.
 
Q. Can you give some past examples of bad fundamental developments?
 
A. Think what happened to personal computer stocks over the last few years, where price elasticity turned pretty unfavorable in that market and price pressure intensified. Think about all the wireless companies during the Asian financial crisis, when rollouts in those markets were postponed.
Downward revisions of basic demand would be bad. That is not happening here. In fact, there are a number of interesting catalysts that could be spurring demand.
For example, the time and effort corporate America has been putting into testing systems for Y2K is going to be used in the e-commerce transformation, and I think that will lead to some fairly aggressive spending in that area.
 
Q. Where can investors look to see if demand has materialized?
 
A. In a couple of quarters it will show up in results from companies like Exodus Communications, which provides Internet system and network management solutions to business, or at Commerce One or BroadVision, which are e-commerce software companies.
 
Q. Are you among the many folks who worry about the threat that rising interest rates seem to pose to technology stocks?
 
A. Whenever interest rates become an issue, it lasts for a few days, and then it is back to buying. What would worry me in terms of a big compression in price-earnings multiples is if there were a lot of other really compelling investment alternatives for people. Absent that, I don't worry too much.
 
Q. What sorts of companies do you like now?
 
A. The types of companies we have been most interested in lately are those that provide underlying e-commerce technology and photonics companies, those who make equipment to move data on lasers. In general, we have avoided the dot-com names. That has made us a little less volatile and allowed me to sleep better at night. I think we will continue that way.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Landis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); BONDS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



229 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Triumph of the Nerds

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
This weekend Boston played host to the annual meeting of the American Economic Association. It was a meeting of college professors; but it was also a conclave of some of the world's movers and shakers. Academic economists used to expect to affect policy only at third or fourth hand; but lately they have, in unprecedented numbers, moved into the corridors of power.
The most conspicuous example of the trend is Lawrence Summers, the academic whiz kid who became treasury secretary. But Harvard professors have attained high office before, and will again. What is different this time is that Mr. Summers is only the most prominent of a wave of professors-turned-policy makers. Even if a year from now Mr. Summers himself is forced to seek alternative employment (spokesman for Jenny Craig? Sorry, couldn't help myself), there will still be dozens of other former professors in key policy positions from the International Monetary Fund to the Bank of England. 
 What accounts for this growing academic influence over economic policy? One reason is that in the 1990's the professoriate effectively repelled the challenges, from both right and left, that had called its authority into question in the 80's.
The challenge from the right was more serious. Supply-siders -- who argued that high taxes were the root of all evil and ridiculed the concern of conventional economists with things like budget deficits -- were initially dismissed as cranks. But with ready access to the pages of The Wall Street Journal and Forbes, they had no trouble getting their message out. And they claimed that the economic growth of their disciple, Ronald Reagan, vindicated their doctrine.
But after eight years and counting of expansion under manifestly non-Reaganite policies that claim is, to put it mildly, unconvincing. (Yes, the faithful insist that our current prosperity is the result of their hero's 1982 tax cut; but I don't recall them giving Lyndon Johnson credit for the boom in 1983.) And 20 years on, the supply-siders themselves still sound like, well, cranks. They haven't gone away -- any doctrine that appeals to the prejudices of rich old men is assured of a certain basic level of financial support, and its adherents will always be able to find sinecures in the world of right-wing think tanks -- but they have gone into remission.
The challengers from the left were suaver, though less well financed. In the pages of intellectual magazines like The Atlantic Monthly, well-spoken men argued that the government-guided growth of Japan and other Asian economies contradicted the free-market implications of standard economic theory. Economists might shake their heads at mangled logic and garbled statistics; but in the early 90's, many thoughtful Americans, William Jefferson Clinton among them, found them convincing. Then Japan's economic engine started to sputter; a few years later Asia plunged into crisis; and those who had trumpeted the superiority of an "Asian system" became very quiet.
In recent years, in other words, conventional economics has been vindicated in at least a negative way: "Not as silly as our critics" isn't exactly a stirring slogan, but it more or less sums it up.
There is, however, another reason for the new policy prominence of economists: it is part of a broader social trend, the triumph of the nerds. Once upon a time important men weren't supposed to be too obviously clever; the technical brilliance of someone like Mr. Summers or the I.M.F.'s Stanley Fischer would in itself have marked them as unsound. In the business world of the 90's, however, the propeller heads consistently outperformed the suits, and that affected overall perceptions of what it takes to get the job done. A world in which Bill Gates is the ultimate businessman is a world in which Larry Summers can be treasury secretary.
Still, one suspects that the role of academic economists as policy makers is a transitory phenomenon -- perhaps even a Pyrrhic victory. New challenges to orthodoxy, like the growing backlash against globalization, are already brewing. These challenges may be ill-informed, but no matter. Economics is an inherently political subject, on which everyone has an opinion; it is hard to believe that the public will be willing to defer on a sustained basis to the expertise of professors, however brilliant. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); BILL CLINTON (53%); RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



230 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: The World: You Need Good Glasses;
Looking for Camp David on the Map of Shepherdstown

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
BEFORE President Clinton left Washington for his first meeting with Israeli and Syrian leaders at a Shepherdstown, W.Va., retreat, his aides requested a copy of the Camp David agreement to review the formulations that forged peace between Egypt and Israel some 20 years ago.
Similarly, in Jerusalem, Israeli officials feverishly studied the negotiations with Jewish settlers evacuated from the Sinai as a result of that accord. Clearly, that first evacuation, which broke the Zionist taboo against abandoning a settlement, would serve as the historical template -- complete with do's and don'ts -- for what may be Israel's next one, from the Golan Heights. 
 "The whole Camp David process is the yardstick, whether it should be or shouldn't be," said Gerald M. Steinberg, a diplomacy expert at Bar-Ilan University.
Even in quaint Shepherdstown itself, the memory of Camp David asserted itself in the 20-year-old Hebrew-Arabic-English peace posters that decorated the store windows last week. Following the Eyptian-Israeli peace treaty, a Jewish grandmother had given the posters to her granddaughter, now a town resident. Save them for the day that Israel makes peace with the rest of its enemies, she had said.
In some ways, the comparison is unfair. Camp David -- 12 excruciatingly long days in which Jimmy Carter, Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat hammered out a framework of peace -- was the climax of a process. Shepherdstown, where bilateral contact has been limited to clipped utterances of "Lobby, please" in the hotel elevator, is an opening scene.
But the comparing and contrasting of Camp David and Shepherdstown is inevitable, because parallels are so explicit.
For Israel, the parallel begins with the basic formula of trading peace for land occupied during a war -- then the Sinai, now the Golan Heights. There is the uprooting of Jewish settlements planted by the Israeli government -- then some 5,800 residents, now 17,000. And there is the attempt to not just declare non-belligerency but to normalize relations with the most influential foe of the Jewish homeland in the Arab world -- then Egypt, now Syria.
For Syria's president, Hafez al-Assad, the Camp David deal is something to equal or best, especially since he declined Mr. Sadat's invitation to join in his peace negotiations with Israel in the 1970's.
"He has to trump Sadat, or else why has he waited 20 years, especially after criticizing Sadat so strongly for making too many concessions," said Shibley Telhami, who holds the University of Maryland's Anwar Sadat Chair for Population, Development and Peace.
For both sides, there is the American purse that bankrolls the effort. After Camp David, that meant $3 billion in annual aid to Israel and $2.3 billion to Egypt over 20 years, and an understanding that the amounts were linked, to rise or fall together.
And finally, despite the cold peace that emerged from the beginnings of a more promising relationship, there is the fact that the fundamental peace stuck: There have been no conflicts, no skirmishes, no large military exercises on the Israeli-Egyptian border.
The world has changed much, of course, since the Camp David talks in the leafy autumn of 1978. Egypt was a key client state of the Soviet Union, and the cold war hovered over the forging of that first melting of hostilities in the Middle East. That was a factor crucial for the avid American participation.
Since then, besides the breakup of the Soviet Union, peace has been forged with Jordan. The peace effort with the Palestinians, which tentatively began with agreement at Camp David that the Palestinians had a right to full autonomy, has chugged into its final stages. Camp David itself broke up Egypt's alliance with Syria.
Headlines from Israeli newspapers in the late 1970's bear an eerie resemblance to current ones. Right-wing parties threaten to quit the governing coalition; settlers mobilize rallies in their own defense; Israelis express anxiety about increasing dependence on the Americans, and some accuse the government of ignoring domestic concerns in its focus on peace.
Recently, one newspaper here, after sneaking a correspondent into Syria, gave in to pages of rapture about Syria itself -- the warmth of the people, the smoothness of the hummus. It recalled the euphoria that Sadat engendered in the Israelis.
But in general, this time, there is very little enthusiasm for the prospects of what peace will bring beside an end to war. That is a product of Mr. Assad's tough persona. But it is a lesson of Camp David, too. The fact that the peace with Egypt remains so cool fuels some of the opposition to the negotiations with Syria. And even for supporters, it mutes expectations.
"We learned our lesson not to expect too much from a major Arab power that has its own internal agenda and problems," said Joseph Alpher, director of the American Jewish Committee in Israel. "The inclination is to build a kind of equation. Despite Sadat's warmth, we got a cold peace with Egypt. So with Assad's coldness, we're going to have a frigid peace with Syria."
After painful wrangling, the Egyptians got the full Israeli withdrawal they wanted. Now Syria, too, is pushing for a full withdrawal. "For every inch of the Sinai that Sadat got, Assad wants a little more," Professor Steinberg said. But unlike with Israel and Egypt, where both sides accepted the international borders, Syria wants Israel to pull back another seven square miles beyond the international border to the line that stood between them on June 4, 1967.
And unlike with Egypt, which repossessed a 124-mile stretch of desert that served as a natural buffer with Israel, the heights of the Golan confer a military advantage on Syria. This changes the dynamic of the negotiation over land, with Israel putting a high value on the security controls that could be provided by early warning stations.
Those who question the use of Camp David as a model also argue that Mr. Sadat, in braving rifts with the Arab world, was the one who took the risks and that Mr. Assad should not be rewarded for waiting this long. And they point to what they see as a bitter fruit: Egypt's sophisticated military capability, a potential threat to Israel.
OTHERS, though, note the peculiar cooperation that has developed between Israel and Egypt, which, since their aid levels are linked, almost jointly lobby Congress every year for continued high levels of financing. They say that if Syria were brought into the United States' orbit, it would give the Americans and Israelis leverage. Mr. Assad too is reportedly looking to establish a close economic, military and strategic relationship with the United States.
That Mr. Assad is not present in Shepherdstown could be a reflection solely of his ill health. But it is likely that it is another signal of how he wants to do things differently than Sadat at Camp David. Many Egyptians, and many Arabs in general, were disappointed with that accord, and believed that Sadat had caved in to American demands and had sold out the Palestinians to regain the Sinai. .
The Israeli prime minister, Ehud Barak, drew a direct parallel with the Israeli-Egyptian conflict and its resolution before leaving for Shepherdstown. He visited the spiritual leader of the ultra-Orthodox Shas party, Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, seeking an endorsement of his peace effort. "There were once those who said that Sharm el-Sheikh without peace was preferable," he said. "Then," he continued, referring to the 1973 war, "we had 3,000 graves and the picture changed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Israeli soldier looked out last week from atop snow-covered Mount Hermon on the Golan Heights. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); EGYPT (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); EGYPT (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



231 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS/INVESTING;
The New York Times Business Best Sellers

 BODY:
In place of the Off the Shelf book review column, which usually appears with the Business Best Sellers list the second week of each month, here is a look at the year's best sellers as well as December's, both in hardcover and in paperback.
 About half the titles on the December list were also best sellers for the year, a testament to the staying power of popular business and personal finance titles. Books about the Internet boom and its riches are well represented, as are advice manuals for managers and exuberant forecasts about the stock market.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: "DECEMBER: HARDCOVER"
1+ -- 1 WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). Techniques for dealing with change in the workplace.
 2 -- 2 THE NEW NEW THING by Michael Lewis (Norton, $25.95). The story of Jim Clark, a technical and financial pioneer in the computer world.
 3 -- 8 CUSTOMERS.COM by Patricia B. Seybold, R. T. Marshak and Ronni Marshak (Times Books, $27.50). How to create a profitable strategy for doing business on the Internet.
 4+ -- 3 LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw (Hyperion, $21.95). How to define and achieve goals in life and work.
 5* -- -- JOE TORRE'S GROUND RULES FOR WINNERS by Joe Torre (Hyperion, $23.95). Twelve keys to managing team players, tough bosses, setbacks and successes.
 6 -- 6 THE SEASON by Ronald Kessler (HarperCollins, $26). An investigative reporter's take on Palm Beach, where 87 percent of the population of 9,800 are said to be millionaires.
 7 -- -- WHY WE BUY by Paco Underhill (Simon & Schuster, $25). Reports on consumer behavior.
 8+ -- 4 FIRST, BREAK ALL THE RULES: What The World's Greatest Managers Do Differently by Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman (Simon & Schuster, $25). Based on 80,000 interviews.
 9* -- 9 THE INNOVATOR'S DILEMMA by Clayton M. Christensen (Harvard Business School Press, $27.50). How managers can cope when disruptions caused by new technologies threaten to push their companies into failure.
 10+-- -- DOW 36,000 by James K. Glassman and Kevin A. Hassett (Times Business/Random House, $25). A strategy for profiting from the strong stock market.
 
"DECEMBER: PAPERBACK"
 1-- -- WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE, essay by David Fisher (Hyperion, $10.95). The official guide to the television quiz show.
 2-- -- DON'T SWEAT THE SMALL STUFF AT WORK by Richard Carlson (Hyperion, $11.95). How to ease the stress of heavy workloads and rush deadlines.
 3*: 2 THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko (Pocket, $14). A look at wealthy Americans.
 4+ -- 1 THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Fireside/S&S, $14). Principles for success.
 5 -- 3 THE ROARING 2000'S by Harry Dent Jr. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14). Building wealth during the coming economic boom.
 
"1999: HARDCOVER"
 1+ LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw.
 2+ WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson.
 3+ THE NINE STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM by Suze Orman (Crown, $23). Ways to manage your money now and in the future.
 4+ FIRST, BREAK ALL THE RULES by Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman.
 5*+ THE COURAGE TO BE RICH by Suze Orman (Riverhead, $24.95). How to create a life of material and spiritual abundance.
 6 THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE by Thomas L. Friedman (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50). A columnist and former correspondent for The Times explains the electronic global economy.
 7*+ BUSINESS @ THE SPEED OF THOUGHT by Bill Gates with Collins Hemingway (Warner, $30). The chairman of Microsoft discusses how new technology is changing the ways business is done.
 8 ETHICS FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM by the Dalai Lama (Riverhead, $24.95). The ethical system Buddhism offers for life and work, including appropriate strategies for interaction.
 9 CUSTOMERS.COM by Patricia B. Seybold, R. T. Marshak and Ronni Marshak.
 10 THE NEW NEW THING by Michael Lewis.
 
"1999: PAPERBACK"
 1+ THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko.
 2+ THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey.
 3+ A CIVIL ACTION by Jonathan Harr (Vintage, $14). A nonfiction account of a lawsuit brought by Massachusetts homeowners against industrial polluters.
 4 DON'T SWEAT THE SMALL STUFF AT WORK by Richard Carlson.
 5 RICH DAD, POOR DAD by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Techpress, $15.95). What the rich teach their children about money that the poor and middle class do not.
 Rankings are based on figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND MAGAZINES BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (78%); DALAI LAMA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



232 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
His Heartbreak Hotel

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The fun at the Chappaqua hacienda is over. Bill Clinton has finished the heady business of unpacking that one old table he hadn't seen in 17 years. Now he faces a new life here as President Lonely Guy.
Restless and rattling around the empty-nest White House, he begins dialing. This is the official log of calls he made on his first night home alone: 
 6 p.m. Call to Hillary in Chappaqua: "Honey, did you take my Kenny G CD? I can't find it anywhere. I'm so lonesome I could cry. This place is Heartbreak Hotel. Just remember, whatever you need me to do, Madame Candidate . . ."
6:15 p.m. Call to Harold Ickes in Georgetown: "Harold, you were right to make me go up to Chappaqua that first night Hillary moved in. But, look, man, about that other thing you want me to do, the cook-off with Donna Hanover on the food channel? I don't know about that. Wearing an apron and all . . ."
7 p.m. Call to Martin Sheen in Hollywood: "Hey, President Bartlett? This is President Clinton. I just wanted to tell you how much I am lovin' the way you play me in 'West Wing.' What's your fax number? I've got some notes for your next show . . ."
7:45 p.m. Call to Jenny Craig office in D.C.: "I've been watching some of your new ads, and that stuff you sell really seems to work. I've gained 18 pounds and I am fat as a wood tick. With Hillary gone, it's surely going to get worse. She made me eat baked French fries. Have you ever heard of such a thing? Does your plan allow fried foods? . . ."
8 p.m. Call to Jimmy Carter in Atlanta: "Hey, Jimmy. No matter what you read, I am not taking that job at Lazard Freres for $10 million. I am modeling my life after the presidency on you. Do you know where I can get a tool belt? . . ."
8:15 p.m. Call to Vernon Jordan in New York: "Hey, buddy. A measly $10 million a year for a president who got the economy cookin' again? You're low ballin' me, Vernon. You tell Laissez-Faire I won't do it for less than $20 mil. Dreamworks offered me that already . . ."
9 p.m. Call to David Geffen in Hollywood: "David? Oh, sorry, who are you? The personal trainer and Kabbalah consultant? What's your name? Listen up, Matt, can you put in a good word for me with David? I'm still waiting for that offer . . ."
9:30 p.m. Call to Al Gore in New Hampshire: "Hel-lo-o-o? Is this the same Al Gore who was around in '93 when we were getting killed over gays in the military? You are a fortunate son, Al, that Bradley is such a supercilious prig . . ."
9:45 p.m. Call to Bill Bradley in Iowa: "Hey, Bill. Between you and I, I just wanted you to know that, no matter what Al says, Hillary and me both think your health care plan is real good . . ."
10 p.m. Call to Richard Gephardt in Sterling, Va.: "Dick, did I wake you? I'm sorry. I know you're scrappin' for every seat and I could take that one in Arkansas. It would be a privilege to serve under you because you'd be a great speaker and I would support you 1,000 percent . . ."
10:30 p.m. Call to Dick Morris in New York: "Hey, man, we need to start polling right away. If I win that Arkansas House seat in 2002, could I knock off Gephardt as speaker? So, what do you think is better for my approval rating: one night a week in New York, two nights a week in New York, or can I get away with no nights at all in that snakebit suburb? . . ."
Midnight. Call to Jennifer Lopez in Miami: "Jennifer? Hey, it's your president callin'. You got a bum rap. Puffy is 10 miles of bad road. I'm calling to enlist your help in an important new gun control campaign. You could spread our message, 'Don't spend Saturday night with a Saturday night special.' Why don't I send an Air Force plane for you? . . ."
12:30 p.m. Call to Puff Daddy in the Hamptons: "Puffy? The witch set you up. I'm going to call Janet Reno right away. Hey, you know where I could get some TLC? . . ."
1:30 a.m. Call to Jack Nicholson in L.A.: "Jack! My main man! The coast is clear. Nurse Ratched has flown the nest. She thinks it's my turn to bake cookies. Mi casa blanca, su casa blanca. Hey, do you happen to have Jewel's number? . . ."
2:00 a.m. Call to Domino's Pizza in D.C.: "Can y'all deliver 100 large pies with extra cheese right away? Great. I'm in McLean, Virginia, and my name is Ken Starr, S-T-A-R-R." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: JENNY CRAIG INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (77%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); DAVID GEFFEN (60%); AL GORE (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



233 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
Bountiful Harvest Seen In Managerial Suites

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Perennials -- proxies, not peonies -- won't be out until spring, but Pearl Meyer & Partners, management compensation consultants in New York, have issued a sneak preview that shows how chief executives' pay is continuing to blossom. According to David N. Swinford, a Pearl Meyer managing director, chief executives of the 55 large companies surveyed earned $9.4 million on average last year, up 24 percent from 1998, which is far more than the growth in either the economy or corporate profits, but on a par with the overall rise in stock prices.
Chief executives averaged nearly $1.1 million in salary, nearly $1.7 million in annual bonuses, $1.5 million in long-term incentive pay, and option grants worth more than $5 million. 
 Mr. Swinford said chief financial officers averaged $2.4 million in 1999 compensation, chief legal officers $1.9 million and the top human relations executives nearly $1.5 million, with options providing half in each category.
Directors and investors "expect C.E.O.'s to be paid like owners, rather than hired hands," he said. "Now the entrepreneurial risk-reward system is increasingly being applied down the ranks" of managers. DAVID CAY JOHNSTON
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PARTNERS MANAGEMENT CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVES (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); 

PERSON: DAVID N SWINFORD (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



234 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Net Americana;
Welcome to the Internet, The First Global Colony

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
IN the beginning, there was Pangaea. It was the Earth's great land mass, the mother of all seven continents, which broke up 240 million years ago as Earth's tectonic plates moved apart. That was the last global continent, until now.
The Internet is the new one, a cyber-Pangaea. But unlike the original, this global realm is not really stateless. In many respects, it is U.S. territory. The odd thing is that many of the pioneering breakthroughs of the Internet came from abroad, especially Europe. The World Wide Web, for example, was created by an Oxford-educated physicist, Tim Berners-Lee, while working in the shadow of the Swiss Alps at the CERN physics laboratory outside Geneva. 
 But Mr. Berners-Lee, like so many emigrant technologists, soon departed for the more fertile soil of America, where the innovations of the Internet have flourished remarkably. The causes cited by way of explanation are all ingredients that contribute to the entrepreneurial climate in the United States -- venture capital financing, close ties between business and universities, flexible labor markets, a deregulated business environment, and a culture that celebrates risk-taking, ambition and getting very, very rich.
The result is that the technology, economics and culture of the Internet feel awfully American. The companies that have cashed in on the Internet from newcomers like Amazon.com and Yahoo to the established technology suppliers like I.B.M., Sun Microsystems, Cisco and Microsoft are American. By one estimate, United States corporations collect 85 percent of the revenues from the Internet business and represent 95 percent of the stock market value of Internet companies.
English is the dominant language of the Internet, found on most Web sites and used in most e-mail. Perhaps most important, the culture of the Net tends to be informal and individualistic, decentralized and hard to control. This makes it the preferred medium of dissident groups in countries around the world, and it also makes it feel just like home to American net surfers. "The Internet is profoundly disrespectful of tradition, established order and hierarchy, and that is very American," observed Fareed Zakaria, the managing editor of Foreign Affairs.
Economically, the Internet is a transmitter of the kind of relentless, consumer by consumer competition that can be volatile and destabilizing. It has the astringent flavor of free-market economics embraced in America more than elsewhere.
"If the United States government had tried to come up with a scheme to spread its brand of capitalism and its emphasis on political liberalism around the world, it couldn't have invented a better model than the Internet," said Don Heath, president of the Internet Society, an international organization.
Neither the values of the United States nor its faith in their universal applicability are universally welcome, however, and the same may be said of the Internet. France and Germany, among other nations, are concerned that the Internet economy may prove impossible for nations to regulate, and create such vast inequality and rootlessness among its citizens that they will lose their sense of social cohesion.
"Reasonable people understand the Internet is a technology platform, not some form of American imperialism," noted Gerhard Schulmeyer, who heads the American arm of the big German company Siemens.
"But the Internet moves rapidly and is a disruptive technology that threatens institutions of all kinds, companies and trade unions, so it has added to the sense in Europe that people's backs are to the wall," Mr. Schulmeyer added.
Like much of America's influence on the world, the Internet lies in the arena of what Joseph S. Nye, dean of Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government terms "soft power." It's like rock 'n' roll or American movies, which earn lots of money, to be sure, but mainly influence other nations by offering an irresistible alternative culture.
Still, despite America's early Internet lead, the Web is a vast expanse, accommodating significant national and linguistic differences. "There is a lot more diversity on the Internet than just looking at the English-language Web pages might suggest, and it's getting more diverse all the time," said Esther Dyson, editor of Release 1.0, a newsletter that focuses on the Internet.
There is diversity, too, in how people believe the Internet should be allowed to function. Europe, in particular, has offered plenty of resistance to the American self-regulatory approach for handling personal data on the Internet. The Europeans believe that Internet commerce poses a potentially alarming threat to privacy, and after two years of negotiation, the two sides have been unable to reach agreement on common principles.
Robert Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, says the Internet privacy talks represent a "new-era trade dispute."
Today, nearly half of the global online population resides in the United States. Forty four percent of Americans have Internet access at home or at work, more than double the percentages in Germany and Britain, according to Jupiter Communications. Only a few Scandinavian countries, notably Sweden, approach the American level of Internet access, the research firm reports.
TTHIS edge in Internet use is expected to decline steadily as other countries, especially Europe and Japan, close the gap. And some industry executives believe Europe could quickly catch, perhaps even surpass America, in Internet technology as the world moves beyond the personal computer as the primary device for cruising the Net. In the coming "post-PC era," they say, people will increasingly use wireless devices like "smart" cell phones for e-mail, shopping and information services over the Internet. European companies like Nokia hold the global lead in the cell phone market largely because they rallied around a unified European technology standard, known as GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications), while American companies competed with a handful of incompatible standards.
But it is culture -- not raw technology alone -- that will determine whether the United States retains its status as the pre-eminent Internet nation. David Braunschvig, a managing director of Lazard Freres & Company, is optimistic about Europe and he insists "there is no logical reason why the U.S. should have this de facto monopoly on Internet innovation."
Mr. Braunschvig, whose doctorate in computer science is from the University of Paris, says he tells his friends at dinner parties in France that all Europe with its 350 million people really needs to produce is 30 or 40 entrepreneurs like Marc Andreessen, who left college to co-found Netscape, the Internet browser pioneer. "My European friends say, Of course, we've produced such people, but they have moved to America," said Mr. Braunschvig, who lives in New York.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANCE (77%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: EARTH (94%); ALPS (57%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: JUST LIKE HOME INC (64%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); EUROPEAN LABORATORY FOR PARTICLE PHYSICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN LABORATORY FOR PARTICLE PHYSICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANCE (77%); GERMANY (57%); EARTH (94%); ALPS (57%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNET & WWW (90%); PHYSICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); DEREGULATION (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); LIBERALISM (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



235 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Governor of Louisiana Faces the Trial of His Life

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Jan. 6

 BODY:
For a quarter century, Edwin W. Edwards was Louisiana's great guilty pleasure, the four-term governor whose breezy misbehavior amused the voters while infuriating several generations of federal law-enforcement officers.
They charged him with rigging hospital licenses for cash in 1985, but the trial ended in a hung jury. They retried him the next year, and he was acquitted. There has barely been a deal or a handshake since then that some prosecutor or detective has not scrutinized. One lawyer who is close to Mr. Edwards said that for 25 years, prosecutors had asked suspects in unrelated cases if they had any damaging information on him. 
 But beginning on Monday, the former governor will face what almost everyone acknowledges is the most serious prosecution of his career, one that he may have difficulty eluding with the Cajun wit that always beguiled previous juries.
This time, when the jury and the people of Louisiana hear his sleepy drawl in the United States Courthouse here, he will not be cracking wise about the women or the poker chips that have passed through his hands. Instead, his voice will resonate from thousands of hours of audio and video tapes secretly recorded by the F.B.I. in his home, office, car and a private plane. The government says the tapes will show him directing extortion and fraud involving riverboat casino licenses that brought him and his associates more than $3 million.
For the first time in his various prosecutions, the government will present former accomplices who will testify about repeated acts of corruption to support the 28 felony counts against him. The star witness will be Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., the former chairman of the San Francisco 49ers, who is scheduled to testify that he gave Mr. Edwards a briefcase containing $400,000 after Mr. Edwards warned him that his application for a casino license would otherwise be imperiled. Mr. DeBartolo negotiated a plea agreement in exchange for his testimony.
For the first time, Mr. Edwards will be tried not in easygoing New Orleans, where many black residents still support him, but in this more conservative and staid capital city. "Baton Rouge is more suburban, more middle-class than New Orleans," said Bernie R. Pinsonat, a local poll taker. "A Baton Rouge jury is far less likely to be mesmerized."
Most frustrating of all, from the perspective of a master charmer like Mr. Edwards, is an order from a dour and exacting federal judge that prohibits him and lawyers for both sides from speaking publicly about the case in any way, spelling an end to his defense by uproarious sound bite. The clowning is over -- he will not be riding to Judge Frank J. Polozola's courthouse in a horse and buggy, as he once did in a previous trial.
All this has led to a gathering sense in Louisiana that Mr. Edwards, 72, is no longer quite as slippery as he used to be. Many Edwards watchers were particularly surprised that he was careless enough to be caught on tape.
"There's a feeling now that Governor Edwards could really be on the ropes," said Harry Rosenberg, the former United States attorney for the district that includes New Orleans. "We don't yet know all of what's on the tapes, but all indications would lead us to believe that the contents of those tapes will certainly change the public's perception of Edwin Edwards. And they will perhaps change the likelihood of a conviction."
Through Mr. Edwards' four terms, voters put up with his gambling and womanizing -- and what most assumed was much worse -- because he taxed the oil business instead of them, cared about the poor and kept them smiling even as they shook their heads in disbelief.
"I work hard, play hard, move fast and get things done," he once said, and so episodes that would have been scandals for a lesser politician were just another venial sin for him.
"He always believed he was following the law, but he loved to give the appearance of not following it," said an old friend, former State Senator Edgar G. Mouton Jr. "That was his strength and weakness at the same time. For everyone who said he was the biggest thief ever to hit Louisiana, there was someone else who said he was the greatest governor we ever had."
All this has led some people to believe that he is unshakable, no matter the evidence against him. "He's too smart to catch," said Donnie Hotard, a contractor at the Exxon chemical plant who was shopping today at the Wal-Mart in Port Allen, a grimy city that is the kind of place where Mr. Edwards, a Democrat, has always been popular. "I don't think this trial or any trial is ever going to change that."
The Nov. 6, 1998, indictment of Mr. Edwards and his five co-defendants, one of whom is his son, Stephen Edwards, depicts a man far more venal and calculating than his roguish public image. The indictment says that while he was governor and after he left office in 1996, Mr. Edwards and his aides devised five schemes to manipulate the awarding of riverboat gambling licenses, extorting millions from companies seeking the licenses, including Mr. DeBartolo's.
At one point in February 1997, the indictment says, Mr. Edwards, his son and another co-defendant were taped discussing how to disguise payments from a casino operator. Mr. Edwards suggested that they buy a tugboat and rent it to the casino, then "jack up the rental" by the amount of the payment, about $90,000 a month, the indictment said.
A month later, the indictment says, Mr. Edwards handed Mr. DeBartolo a piece of paper at a Baton Rouge bar with the figure $400,000 on it, and told Mr. DeBartolo that there would be problems with his casino application if he did not pay it. A week later, Mr. Edwards flew to San Francisco to pick up the cash, using a money vest to transport the $100 bills to Louisiana, prosecutors say.
He was also charged with hiring a Mississippi man to wiretap the home of the lead F.B.I. agent in the case, to learn about the case against him.
Mr. Edwards, who pleaded not guilty, has not been able to comment since Judge Polozola restricted his speech a few days after the indictment. But earlier he said that as strange as it might seem, he was merely accepting payments as a consultant to the casino industry. Friends say he remains supremely confident of acquittal.
The trial, which is expected to last up to three months, is only the first of what may be a series of prosecutions stemming from the two-year investigation. Mr. Edwards was also charged with fraud in a separate case, in which he was accused of helping the Cascade Insurance Company evade millions of dollars in state payments. And he was named an unindicted co-conspirator in a case in which former Mayor Fred Hofheinz of Houston was accused of bribing an Edwards aide in order to win state contracts.
If convicted of all the charges against him in the casino case, Mr. Edwards would face 350 years in prison and a fine of $7.25 million. But the United States attorney heading the case, Eddie J. Jordan Jr., has made it clear that there is far more at stake here than the final years of a gambler's life. Along with Mr. Edwards, what is really on trial this week is an acceptance of political corruption that dates to the days of Huey and Earl Long.
"Hopefully," Mr. Jordan said in charging Mr. Edwards, "our efforts to hold those accountable for the brazen acts of corruption described in the indictment will eventually bring about a heightened awareness among our citizens and those of other states that we will not tolerate political and economic corruption here in Louisiana."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Gov. Edwin W. Edwards of Louisiana outside federal court. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (96%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EDWARD J DEBARTOLO CORP (53%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (96%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOVERNORS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); GAMING (87%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUDGES (78%); FELONIES (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); WITNESSES (77%); MISTRIAL (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); CASINOS (74%); EXTORTION (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (72%); ACQUITTAL (72%); POKER (67%); CONSERVATISM (65%); 

PERSON: EDWIN W EDWARDS (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



236 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 10; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Cruisers, Gadgets and More At the New York Show

BYLINE: By HERB McCORMICK; Herb McCormick is executive editor of Cruising World magazine.

 BODY:
When the 90th edition of the New York National Boat Show opened yesterday at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan, showgoers were treated to exhibition floors teeming with the latest in boats, electronics and accessories from every facet of the marine industry. But one of the most intriguing displays showcased a vessel from the past, not the present.
On July 25, 1956, in fog-shrouded seas off Nantucket Island, the 700-foot Italian luxury liner Andrea Doria sank in 250 feet of water after colliding with the Swedish-American passenger liner Stockholm. Fifty-two people were lost at sea. 
 When the Andrea Doria went down, so too did her collection of paintings, murals, silverware, tapestries and sculpture from Italy's most prominent contemporary artists. "She was literally a floating art gallery," said the boat show's manager, Michael Duffy.
Since the tragedy, the wreck has become a magnet for the world's most experienced divers. Few have made more dives on the Andrea Doria -- or retrieved more treasures from the ship -- than the New Jersey-based explorer John Moyer, whose vast collection of artifacts is part of a 2,400-square-foot presentation at the Javits Center that also includes videos, maiden-voyage posters, and original blueprints.
"The piece de resistance is a pair of two huge ceramic panels designed by Guido Gambone," Duffy said. "They're part of an original four-panel set, and they're sensational."
The Andrea Doria exhibit is one of a series of interactive features at the show, which runs through Jan. 16. For those tempted to emulate Moyer's undersea adventures, the Fantasea Scuba Tank will offer demonstrations and test dives to the public.
For younger show attendees, the Kids Kove is full of activities that include a 33-foot Titanic slide; a coloring-book design competition; a casting contest sponsored by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation; and, on the Saturdays and Sundays of the show, the opportunity to race radio-controlled model sailboats, powered by fans, around a replica model of New York City.
In addition to the hands-on diversions, daily boating and fishing seminars will address topics ranging from new- and used-boat buying and financing, to water-skiing, to fly and surf fishing.
Also encompassed in that list is today's Allstate Safety Day presentation, which includes a man-overboard discussion and an awareness program for children. In conjunction with the safety program the reigning Miss USA, Kimberly Ann Pressler, will be handing out free life vests to the first 250 children under 12 who enter the show.
Of course, no boat show would be worthy of the name without a vast selection of watercraft. "There's something for everybody here, whatever the budget," Duffy said. "From small inflatables to full-scale yachts, we've got them."
At 55 feet, the Sea Ray 55 is the queen of the thousand-boat fleet and tops the roster of an extensive line of cruising powerboats. Viking Sport Cruisers has two new offerings that will fill the needs of families on the move: its 40 Flybridge Yacht has the fuel capacity for extended roaming while the V50 Express Yacht has the power and speed to handle offshore excursions.
Likewise, the 3672 Express from Cruisers Yachts is a performance-oriented design that comes with a choice of two interior layouts. With a more conservative, classic exterior, the Silverton 42 Convertible is a boat that will provide equal amounts of pleasure at anchor or under way. And Chris-Craft is celebrating its 126th year of boat building with the introduction of the 30-foot Express Cruiser.
The anglers in the crowd will have a hard time passing up the new Grady-White 265 Express and Pro-Line's 30 Walk. For the more sporty set, the Donzi 45 ZX, Bayliner's 2150 Capri and Correct Craft's Ski Nautique Open-Bow are all laid out for fun-filled days on the water.
Although roughly 90 percent of the show consists of powerboats, sailors will find an interesting selection of vessels from such builders as Beneteau, Hunter, Tartan, and C & C.
As for electronics, the new Radar P.C. Sensor from Si-Tex, which allows a navigator to transform an onboard P.C. or laptop into a full-fledged radar unit, is a nod toward the increased use of P.C.'s onboard.
With so much to offer, Duffy is expecting a big turnout. "We've sold out all our space," he said. "It's indicative of a strong economy and a renewed interest in boating. It's a family sport where everyone can participate."
Session hours for the show are 1 p.m.-9 p.m. weekdays; 10 a.m.-9.p.m. Saturday; and 11 a.m.-6 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $10 for adults and $3 for children ages 6-12. The number for advance ticket sales ($8 per adult) or consumer information is (888) 322-9922. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (79%); ITALY (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (51%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (79%); ITALY (72%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PAINTING (90%); CRUISES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); CHILDREN (85%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); WATER SPORTS (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); SCUBA DIVING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ART COLLECTING (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); WATERSKIING (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL DUFFY (79%); ANDREA DORIA (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



237 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Democratic Candidates' Debate

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Democratic presidential debate yesterday in Johnston, Iowa, involving Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, as recorded by The New York Times:
Q. Genetically engineered products meet heavy resistance in European countries and in Japan. . . . What can we do today? 
 MR. BRADLEY I think the most important thing we can do is to use our authority under the World Trade Organization in order to petition to get access to markets. When, for example, Europe blocked our beef because of beef hormones, we went to the W.T.O. We farmed a dispute settlement mechanism, we presented our case and they ruled in our favor. . . .
But we all know that the problem of agriculture in this country is serious. In Iowa, it's dead serious. I've talked to thousands of family farmers over the last year. And it means we have to change policy.
It means we have to get the antitrust division to get after these large packers that are discriminating against family farmers. It means that we have to have a conservation reserve program expanded. It means that we have to provide income supplement to farmers based upon the relationship between price and their costs and it has to go to them with a cap so it only goes to family farmers and not to big corporate farmers.
MR. GORE The question is about genetically modified organisms, and you know the key point is we can't let Europe and Japan determine our farm policy. The decisions . . . really ought to be based on sound science, not science controlled by people working for the companies that profit from these new technologies, but neutral, dispassionate experts who will give us the best and most accurate conclusions about their safety. If they're safe and if they enhance productivity at no risk, then we ought to be able to use them. . . .
Now of course, we have got to also address these other issues, including it's time to get rid of almost all of the so-called Freedom to Farm Act, because it's been the freedom to fail and it's not working. . . .
Let me introduce a friend of mine to you. Chris Peterson is here. Could you stand up Chris? Chris is a farmer. . . . Back in 1993, 300 of his 400 acres were flooded out. . . . Why did you vote against the disaster relief for Chris Peterson when he and thousands of other farmers here in Iowa needed it after those '93 floods? . . .
MR. BRADLEY This is not about the past. This is about the future. This is about what we're going to do to change the agriculture policy we've had the last 8, 10 years, during Republicans and Democrats.
The family farmers that I've talked to in this state, who are the backbone of this agricultural economy, have had no real help. Freedom to Farm failed. There was supposed to be a safety net; the administration said they were going to put a safety net in and the first year after it passed, no safety net whatsoever. The reality is that we need to have a change in agriculture policy. . . .
And that's why the suggestions that I've made for a change in agricultural policy aim to dramatically improve the circumstance for small family farms in this country. So you can talk about the past, but I prefer to talk about the future. . . .
Q. If elected president, what would you do that would result in improved learning for all students in public school classrooms? Senator?
MR. BRADLEY Well, first of all, what I would do is look at education a little more broadly. I think we should have a strong federal commitment to education. I think it should begin at birth and extend for lifetime and be available for everyone. So I think we need a major investment in early education and early child care. I would get kids ready to learn by doubling the slots in Head Start.
I would then propose adding 600,000 great new teachers to the public schools of this country over the next decade. I would increase dramatically the number of after-school programs that are available to children in this country between the hours of 3:00 and 8:00, which is when most of the juvenile crime takes place.
But I think there are other things, too, that are relevant to education. I think when a child arrives at the first grade and hasn't had any health care and is sick, a good health care insurance is education policy as well. I think last year when 800,000 kids took a gun to school that sensible gun control is good education policy as well.
So you can look at education in terms of where people live their lives, and that's the way I look at it, or you can look at it as if it's some bureaucratic box that says education that's unrelated to everything else we do in our lives. I think it's a different perspective on how we view education in this country. I have the perspective of life and I think the vice president has the perspective that it's a box called education.
Q. Mr. Vice President?
MR. GORE Well, you're right that I've made it my top priority for investing in the future. And I'm proud to have the support of the Iowa teachers for this plan and for my candidacy.
In fact, I came here to Iowa . . . and presented a comprehensive plan for education reform. And here's what it has. It has a plan to turn around every failing school, a proposal that is not in Senator Bradley's proposal. . . .
It will reduce the size of each class so that teachers have more one-on-one time to spend with their students. It is designed to provide universal preschool all across the United States for every child and every family all across our nation. It is designed to put new resources, not just technical assistance for the community college buildings, but new resources in the form of a national tuition savings plan and a 401-J for lifelong learning to pay the tuition for those who want to go to college and their families don't have the income. . . .
And finally, I want to connect every classroom and library to the Internet and give the teachers the training they need in the new technologies.
MR. BRADLEY You know, when I was growing up in that small town in Missouri, I went to public school: public grade school, public high school. My mother was a public school teacher, my aunt was a public school teacher. I'm committed to public education.
The most important thing that we can do to improve public education in this country in the next decade is to make sure that there's a great teacher in every classroom. We have to be focused in order to achieve these things. We can spread our interest over the horizon, but if we're focused, we can get a great new teacher in every public school classroom in this country and that is what's important.
The full transcript of the debate is available from The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/politics 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%); IOWA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FACTORY FARMS (75%); AGRICULTURE (74%); PETITIONS (71%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (64%); DISASTER RELIEF (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



238 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3410 words

HEADLINE: STATE UNDER SIEGE: A special report.;
Mexican Tale of Absolute Drug Corruption

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico

 BODY:
Norma Castro felt almost as if she were part of a new country 10 years ago, when her home state of Baja California led Mexico into a new era by voting out the corrupt political machine that had dominated its politics for six decades.
"We thought things were going to change for real," Mrs. Castro, a homemaker, recalled. "We thought that if we gave them a chance -- another government, another party -- maybe they would do something about all this." 
 Despite a decade of reform-minded opposition government, the waves of drug-related crime that have coincided with more democratic politics are eroding the faith of Mrs. Castro and her neighbors that any government can improve their lives.
"People don't believe anymore," Mrs. Castro said, describing how the lines at her neighborhood polling place have grown shorter each year. "They figure, 'What's the point of voting if nothing is going to change?' "
After years in which Mexicans held to the belief that drugs like cocaine were a problem that merely passed through their country on their way to places like Los Angeles and New York, the illicit trade here has begun to profoundly affect people's lives.
Street crime, fed by an explosion of drug abuse, has risen exponentially. With the police overwhelmed by drug-related killings and the courts awash in traffickers' bribes, crimes almost unheard of not long ago -- kidnappings, bank robberies, drive-by shootings -- are commonplace.
For people without the means to hire lawyers or bribe judges, justice has grown steadily more elusive as the system has buckled. Corrupt police officers are fired by the score; illegal gun ownership and private security businesses are booming just the same.
Polls that once showed citizens concerned with street lights and sewer lines now register public safety far ahead of all other concerns. At the same time, voter participation rates at record highs in the early 1990's have quickly given way to some of the highest abstention levels in the country.
"The main source of support for the opposition was its promise to fight crime and corruption, and people no longer believe in that," said Jose Luis Perez Canchola, a leftist politician who was Baja California's first independent human rights ombudsman. "There is a cost to the democracy in that disillusionment. People don't think anyone can solve their problems."
It has been an article of reformist faith in Mexico that free political choice would be the ultimate solution to corruption and injustice. With the end of fraudulent elections and authoritarian rule, the thinking went, leaders would be accountable to the voters rather than to the system of patronage and payoffs built by the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party.
But here in Baja California, things have not gone according to that plan. While public administration has generally improved under the opposition National Action Party, violence, crime and corruption have redrawn the political agenda.
National Action officials who once promised results now move "emergency" police trailers from one neighborhood to another, cutting ceremonial ribbons each time, but never leaving the units in place long enough to make a difference.
Like the former Communists of Eastern Europe, some local leaders of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (known by its Spanish initials as the PRI) have all but embraced its authoritarian past, hoping for a comeback by harking back to days when the criminals with whom they colluded were at least under some control.
The impact of trafficking is disproportionate in Baja California. The state has long been a conduit into the United States for cocaine, marijuana, methamphetamine and heroin; it is also the base of the Arellano Felix brothers' mafia, arguably the most violent Mexico has known.
The confluence of democratic politics and the drug trade, two of the defining forces of contemporary Mexico, has also posed a conflict that bears special attention as the country readies for the most competitive presidential election of its modern history, which is to take place this summer.
Like the politicians of Baja California and a few other crime-ravaged states governed by the opposition, the major presidential candidates all cite the collapsing justice system as a crucial issue. They have said little, however, to sustain faith in the power of free political choice.
"Everyone knows now that the government cannot stop the criminals here," said Armando Gutierrez, a Tijuana radio announcer whose son, Hodin, a crusading state prosecutor, was killed by gunmen thought to be working for the traffickers.
"You just wish that they would come clean -- say they are afraid or they are taking payoffs or they don't know what to do," Mr. Gutierrez went on. "They tried to pretend this wasn't happening, and when they finally looked around, it was too late. The criminals were on top of them."
 
The Leaders
Success in Theory, Failure in Practice
When the National Action Party swept into the statehouse in 1989, it appeared that the young businessman who became governor, Ernesto Ruffo, could not have chosen an easier act to follow. The last PRI governor had been forced to resign by his own party as a series of corruption scandals came to light.
In the drug underworld, Baja California had been a province in the empire of Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo, a former policeman whose ability to befriend officials made him the country's most powerful trafficker. By the time he was arrested in 1989, though, the state was becoming a haven for his much more confrontational second cousins, the six Arellano Felix brothers.
In one of several interviews, Mr. Ruffo recalled thinking that the solution to the state's corruption problem would be a straightforward matter of devising systems in which it could not survive.
Since criminal suspects could have their court files "lost" for a small fee, the new government installed computers and told prosecutors to store their records there. Within weeks, the network was besieged by mysterious hackers and power outages; records vanished just the same.
The new state government did not shy from firing more notorious officers of the state police, who often took jobs in other forces or with the traffickers themselves. The problem it had was replacing them.
"The thing was," recalled one former state police official, "there were no prosecutors who came from the PAN. There were no comandantes from the PAN. 'Ruffo's police' were the same ones who had been there before."(PAN is the Spanish acronym for National Action Party.)
 Nor was the problem necessarily solved by new recruits. As recently as this spring, almost a third of the entering class at the state police academy were found to have lied on their applications, officials acknowledged.
"You have to be very careful whom you choose and how you train them," one senior police official said, without irony. "Each one is a potential criminal."
In the early 1990's, as the Arellanos began to solidify their control of the Tijuana underworld, state officials had little understanding that Mexico's biggest traffickers were growing significantly richer and more defiant.
Successful American interdiction efforts in the Caribbean were forcing as much as three-fourths of the cocaine flow through Mexico.
Its smugglers, who had usually been paid in cash to transport drugs for South American producers, began taking their cut in kind. As the Mexicans expanded their own wholesale business in the United States, their earnings shot up dramatically, and bribes they paid Mexican officials rose apace.
Drug mafias had in the past generally secured government tolerance by dealing in part with senior officials or their emissaries. With fewer leaders now willing to take their money, former officials said, traffickers focused on key positions throughout the criminal-justice apparatus: the district court, the attorney general's security detail, the state police homicide squad (to cover up killings), and the car-theft unit (to supply stolen cars).
In some cases, according to Mexican officials and two Mexican intelligence reports, the Arellanos made long-term alliances with up-and-coming officials, helping advance them. Not everyone was bought off, officials said, but in an atmosphere of pervasive fear, not everyone needed to be.
One former state law-enforcement official, who sat in a cavernous, empty restaurant whispering about his dealings with Arellano emissaries, said it became irrelevant whether he and his colleagues took the money. Whenever they declined satchels full of cash, they were also careful to say they had no intention of getting in the traffickers' way.
"The federal cops come and go from Mexico City," the former official said, "but I have to live here when the job ends. You don't have the power to really do anything, so why get yourself killed? One must not get tangled in the feet of a galloping horse."
 
The System
Long on Water, Short on Safety
Baja California never had a particularly effective criminal justice apparatus. But evidence including crime statistics and opinion polls suggests that the system began to break down more seriously after 1993, as the traffickers became more challenging.
National Action officials were generally making the government administration more efficient. Water delivery was improved, electrical service extended. There was no such progress, however, when it came to the administration of justice.
Local news organizations, most still in the hands of businessmen loyal to the PRI, cast Mr. Ruffo's aides as corrupt cousins of their governing-party predecessors. The governor generally blamed the federal authorities, who have jurisdiction over drug crimes, and was often slow to clean house when accusations emerged against his aides.
Even when officials did resist, the prevailing sense of the traffickers' impunity was more likely to be strengthened.
With small-time drug peddlers spreading across Tijuana, for instance, the city police chief, Federico Benitez, began sending officers after them. When a corrupt young federal police commander dropped by to offer him a huge monthly stipend to end the patrols, Mr. Benitez abruptly ended the meeting, former officials said.
The strategy did not last. On April 24, 1994, Mr. Benitez was shot to death. The federal commander was charged with the killing but never arrested, unabashedly proclaiming his innocence to reporters.
Less than two months before Mr. Benitez's death, a federal police commander who had been battling the traffickers was gunned down in Tijuana by state police officers working as Arellano bodyguards. Three weeks after that, the PRI presidential candidate, Luis Donaldo Colosio, was assassinated in Tijuana.
The pace of drug-related killings quickened again in 1996, creating a new zone of impunity. If a body turned up bearing signs of torture or execution, officials said, even honest detectives moved on to the next case on the presumption that this one could not be solved.
Former state police officials and prosecutors said that as the traffickers operated more freely, so too did other organized crime in the state: car thieves, immigrant smugglers, kidnappers, bank robbers. The proliferation of trafficking groups under Arellano lordship also increased drug distribution on the Mexican side of the border.
One former state attorney general, Jose Luis Anaya Bautista, said the state justice system was effectively overwhelmed.
"We did not have jurisdiction to investigate these crimes," he said, "but they had very serious effects on the state. The trafficking creates more and more addicts. And as the number of addicts increases, so do the burglaries, the robberies, the car thefts."
In a state of more than three million, the investigative force numbered about 650 officers and staff members. "If you take away the sick guys, the old guys and the guys on vacation, that leaves you maybe 500," Mr. Anaya noted. Several officials said they guessed that 150 to 200 officers received some money from the traffickers.
(Mr. Anaya was himself publicly accused of collaborating with the Arellanos by two of the traffickers' former associates. He denied the claims and was never charged, but was forced to resign in late 1997.)
Although the state's crime statistics are shoddy and generally not made public, several sets obtained by a reporter suggest that virtually all major crimes began rising sharply in 1994. While an economic crisis was then fueling crime throughout Mexico, Baja California generally maintained the lowest unemployment rate in the country.
In one newspaper-sponsored poll in Tijuana, 50 percent of those queried said they would not report being victimized.
"If you get robbed and you make a complaint," said the head of the Chamber of Commerce, Arturo Gonzalez Cruz, "you will spend six or seven hours waiting to report it. They will assign detectives, but the detectives will never show up, because nobody ever investigates anything."
 
The Trade
More Addicts, More Killings
The wider impact of the drug trade has rarely been obvious in Baja California. Cities like Tijuana and Mexicali brim with new businesses, and the worst of the fear generated by drug-related crime tends to concentrate in poor suburbs not seen by tourists.
In the makeshift drug treatment centers that have popped up across the state, addicts pack into the sorts of tiny cells that might house migrant laborers or prisoners, which many of them have been. The difference is that the addicts must plead to stay.
The centers are all full, said the head of one treatment network, Miguel Angel Marroquin. "And you can ask anyone -- nobody would say that we are reaching even 1 percent of the addicts out there."
Some of the clients are users of cocaine or crack, which became more widely available in Mexico as smugglers shifted to payment in kind for the drugs they transport. Social workers say more of the addicts are heroin and methamphetamine users, who have watched the price of their drugs fall even as the purity has increased.
"You leave your house for the day and these kids will strip it clean," Hortensia Ortiz, a shopkeeper in the Morita neighborhood, said as a scrum of youths with shaven heads and baggy jeans passed by.
Across a dirt road, two police officers were draped over plastic folding chairs in the back of a trailer that had recently been trucked into the neighborhood. A desktop computer sat unused beside them.
In three weeks, the officers had yet to intercede in any crimes, people in the neighborhood said, but Mrs. Ortiz's husband was leading a petition drive to persuade the authorities to leave the trailer in place.
"It's better than nothing," she and a couple of her customers explained all at once.
The state governor, Alejandro Gonzalez Alcocer, argued in an interview that crime had yet to seriously hurt industry or tourism, engines of the state economy that depend heavily on foreigners' comfort.
But Mr. Gonzalez Alcocer has had to establish a rush-hour gantlet of police protection for Japanese and American plant managers who commute from the San Diego area to maquiladoras, tax-exempt assembly plants across the border. Local business people, angered by what they see as special treatment, are lobbying for their own state prosecutor to deal with crimes against business.
The crisis has been a boon to security companies. Businesses offering bodyguards, armored cars and alarm systems have flourished. In a country with strict laws against gun ownership, shopkeepers have taken to carrying revolvers in their aprons.
Many Baja Californians say the corrosion of the justice system by drug corruption and violence has also strengthened the longstanding Mexican perception that justice often depends on one's ability to pay.
In Tijuana, officials endorse what might be called community policing. Should neighborhoods want their own patrolling officers, all they must do is collect enough for their salaries, about $428 a month each.
Without private lawyers to press their cases, victims are often bested by criminals with better counsel. And since it is no longer news when a public official is shot to death in broad daylight, ordinary victims of even the most horrific crimes must sometimes struggle for any attention at all.
Veronica Ibarra was 26, a restaurant cashier making about $70 a week, when a man who had often eaten at the restaurant attacked her as she went home. She said the man raped and mutilated her and then doused her with gasoline, apparently thinking to burn her body, before leaving her for dead in a shallow grave.
Ms. Ibarra's nightmare had only begun. After the suspect in her attack, Jose Juan Paz Diaz, was arrested two weeks later on assault charges, he posted his $1,000 bailimmediately. (The next day he lunched at her old restaurant.) But with the city in the midst of a string of killings of police officials, Ms. Ibarra's attack did not make the papers.
Ms. Ibarra was all but scalped in the attack, and has since undergone facial surgery 10 times. Despite the brutality of the crime, her lawyers did not bother to enter her medical reports into the court file and never sought to have Mr. Paz charged with attempted murder or rape.
"It was clear that the lawyers hadn't even read the court file," said Minerva Najera, a human rights lawyer who took over the case after hearing of it from a hardbitten crime reporter who was appalled to come upon Mr. Paz heckling Ms. Ibarra as she testified before a judge. "And the fact that the bail was so low, that the guy was released right away, are clear indications that the authorities were being paid off from the beginning."
Eventually, after protests by women's groups that Ms. Najera had rallied, Mr. Paz was sentenced to seven years. But before she completed a successful appeal, raising the sentence to 10 years, he fled Tijuana, apparently to the United States.
"It is sad to say it, but there are many Veronicas," Ms. Najera said. "There is a great deal of impunity, and even minimal amounts of money can keep men like this from facing justice."
Despite bursts of outrage, the public response to the violence has been remarkably quiet. Last year Tijuana authorities began a pilot program in schools to discourage violence and build citizenship. But they appear to have a long struggle ahead.
Early one recent evening at the downtown headquarters of Tijuana's Mutual Assistance Association, a member of that civic group, Jesus R. Guzman, looked out glumly at a sea of empty folding chairs. The lecture topic of the day was "Public Safety."
"I don't understand it," Mr. Guzman said. "Just this year, just in my extended family, we have had eight cars stolen."
Jesus Blancornelas, a Tijuana newspaper editor who was ambushed and nearly killed by Arellano gunmen two years ago after publishing articles about their activities, described a very limited sense of solidarity.
"When a student gets killed, the students march; when a doctor gets killed, the doctors march," he said. "But that's about it. There is still a sense that people have that this really doesn't involve them."
When community advocates and political analysts compare the anger expressed in polls to the apathy and cynicism reflected in local elections, they see the legacy of a one-party state. For nearly 50 years in Mexico, they note, political participation meant compulsory attendance at a PRI rally, compulsory membership in a PRI trade union or maybe pleading with a PRI official for basic services repeatedly promised.
In 1992, when new voter identification cards and a registration drive by Mr. Ruffo's government helped galvanize voters in the state, the turnout for a midterm election was 81 percent. In 1998 it fell below 50 percent in a vote for mayors and legislators.
Just how drug violence and crime have influenced the voters' faith in government is mostly a matter of conjecture. But scandals of drug-related crime and corruption more than anything else have likened the current political leaders to their predecessors. And nothing has left the new generation of state and city officials looking so inept as their struggles with the Arellanos.
"Obviously the crime problem is influencing this process," Mr. Gonzalez Alcocer said of the abstention rate. "It is a factor that is changing peoples' belief in government."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO SAFE HAVEN -- A Tijuana butcher, left, like other merchants, keeps himself armed, with the exponential rise of drug-related killings like this one on a Tijuana street, where an official's son was mourned by his mother.; A MOVABLE FORCE -- A truckload of police officers entering Colonia Obrera, a crime-ridden area west of Tijuana. A mobile "emergency" police station had just been set up. (Photographs by Miguel Cervantes for The New York Times)(pg. 8); Officers making a drug arrest in Baja California. Drug use there has led to an explosion in street crime. (Miguel Cervantes for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map of Mexico shows the location of Tijuana: TROUBLED REGION -- Crime has risen in Tijuana, fed by an explosion of drug abuse. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CORRUPTION (91%); POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BRIBERY (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); SHOOTINGS (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); COCAINE (70%); BANK ROBBERY (65%); FIREARMS (64%); ROBBERY (64%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: NORMA CASTRO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



239 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Chilean's Homespun Record Could Make Him President

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Joaquin Lavin, the first conservative candidate with a chance to win Chile's presidency since Gen. Augusto Pinochet left power in 1990, has never managed anything larger than a neighborhood of 250,000 people on the east side of Santiago.
The neighborhood, Las Condes, is a redoubt of mansions, soaring glassy banks, luxury high-rise apartments and a city hall decorated with prints celebrating the world of polo and golf -- hardly the usual testing ground for a candidate who wants to govern a complex country of nearly 16 million people. 
 Mr. Lavin's resume lacks the heft of that of his opponent, Ricardo Lagos, who headed ministries in the two previous, center-left governments. But the 46-year-old conservative has a strong chance of winning the election next Sunday, a showing that has much to do with the broadly held perception that he governed little Las Condes with imagination and creativity.
"People don't vote based on parties and ideology anymore," Mr. Lavin said in a televised debate with Mr. Lagos. "They vote for the candidate they believe will solve their daily problems."
In nearly seven years as mayor, he borrowed entire chapters from political textbooks devised in cities as far away as New York, Geneva and Singapore in an effort to find free-market solutions to social problems. But more than anything else, his innovations in education and health care are softening the image of the Chilean right, which still carries the baggage of the human rights abuses of the Pinochet dictatorship.
Mr. Lavin is also part of a new wave of younger politicians who appear committed to overturning the traditionally highly centralized power structures of Latin America, parlaying local government success into capturing national attention, and even high office.
Late last year, the mayor of Buenos Aires, Fernando de la Rua, was elected president of Argentina, following similar victories of mayors in Colombia, El Salvador and Nicaragua in recent years. In both Peru and Mexico, a mayor and former mayor are contenders in presidential elections this year.
The man from Las Condes has used a fat budget nourished by plentiful real estate taxes to inaugurate projects big and small, all smartly packaged for maximum media coverage. He eased traffic jams with battery-powered mobile traffic lights turned on and off depending on traffic flows. He spruced up old buildings by providing matching funds to tenants for repainting.
Mr. Lavin created three charter schools that have improved student performance, and he channeled people released from prison into sanitation jobs. A devout Roman Catholic, he provided counseling for single pregnant women -- including those who used drugs or had been raped -- to urge them to give birth and either to rear their own babies or to give them up for adoption.
With advice from William J. Bratton, the former New York City police commissioner, he instituted community policing. And with guidance from the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group, he modeled a new school for dropouts and gang members on the Wildcat Academy in Lower Manhattan, an alternative high school.
The man who might one day negotiate arms and trade deals with Washington and Buenos Aires does not talk much about foreign policy on the campaign trail. Instead, he goes to great lengths to spell out how he will reduce the time patients wait for attention at public health clinics. No subject is too small as Mr. Lavin explains how to clean up graffiti by giving juvenile delinquents paint brushes, provide day care for working mothers and offer college loans to achieving students.
Mr. Lavin began using his nuts-and-bolts philosophy for political gain after he lost a bruising congressional race in 1989 as a right-wing ideologue who defended General Pinochet and went by the nickname "the fighting cock." He reoriented his political compass to squeak out his 1992 electoral victory with a campaign that put bus service before any ideology.
Four years later, he was re-elected with 78 percent of the vote -- a result that catapulted his presidential candidacy over more traditional conservative politicians. Last year, he resigned as mayor to run for president. In first-round balloting last month, Mr. Lavin shocked the political establishment by attracting better than 47 percent of the vote and virtually tieing Mr. Lagos, who only a few months ago was expected to win easily.
Detractors say that Mr. Lavin's programs are paternalistic and token, and that his statements about helping the poor are meant to confuse voters and hide his past as a low-level official in General Pinochet's planning ministry. A country with 10 percent unemployment and a primitive infrastructure in the rural provinces, they say, will need more than Mr. Lavin's Las Condes-style tinkering.
"The man is a demagogue," said former President Patricio Aylwin, who is campaigning hard for Mr. Lagos.
But analysts say Mr. Lavin attracted tens of thousands of lower-income voters in last month's vote by promoting his pragmatic approaches.
"Lavin built a reputation in Las Condes as a person who delivers practical solutions," said Ricardo Israel, a political scientist at the University of Chile. "He never fails to say on the campaign trail, 'I can do for you what I have done for the poor of Las Condes.' "
While most of Las Condes is well-to-do, it has several working-class barrios that have attracted Mr. Lavin's particular attention.
In Colon Oriente, for instance, he built a public gymnasium and swimming pool. He set up clubs for the elderly, where they were provided powdered milk, classes in floral arrangements and counseling for emotional problems. He set up kiosks where people could file crime complaints without traveling long distances to police stations.
When a wealthy landowner threatened to drive away 52 families living in shacks on her land so that a supermarket could be built there, Mr. Lavin bought the land and, in a joint undertaking with the Housing Ministry, built public housing for the families. Mr. Lavin's effort was in marked contrast to the policies of General Pinochet, who drove squatters out of Las Condes whenever he had the chance.
"I've never seen a mayor do so much," said Regina Zuniga, a 43-year-old resident of the project. Ms. Zuniga, an unemployed domestic worker, voted for the two previous presidential candidates of the center-left government. But this time she is voting for Mr. Lavin because, she says, "he will provide work for all the people."
On the campaign trail, Mr. Lavin talks constantly about how he improved health care in Las Condes. He provided limited health insurance free to 2,000 of the lowest-income men who headed households, covering operations for ailments like varicose veins and hernias that could otherwise put them out of work. So his constituents would not have to wait months for various services at public clinics, he donated a building to a private clinic in exchange for its providing free annual examinations to 1,200 low-income people.
And he built small neighborhood infirmaries outfitted with cars so doctors and nurses could make house calls to those too sick to leave home. The model for the free house calls came from British socialized medicine.
Attracted by Mr. Lavin's heterodoxy, Dr. Djamila Calixtro, an immigrant from Cuba who worked for years there in family health care, sought employment in one of the infirmaries. "I'm integrating what I learned in Cuba to work for Mayor Lavin," she said in a comment that would surely make Fidel Castro cringe.
A patient in Dr. Calixtro's infirmary, Nelson Meza, said he was finally giving up alcohol thanks to the counseling he was receiving there. An unemployed bus driver, Mr. Meza, 48, said he voted for the Communist presidential candidate in 1993, but this year would vote for Mr. Lavin.
"We need a young man who will work for the poor," he said. "If he becomes president, it will be a new country."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joaquin Lavin riding a public bus in Santiago with his wife, Maria Estela Leon, in his campaign for the presidential runoff election next Sunday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHILE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (94%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (94%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); CHILDREN (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (62%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); RELIGION (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JOAQUIN LAVIN (97%); AUGUSTO PINOCHET (69%); RICARDO LAGOS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



240 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: In State of Wedlock, Declining Number of Arrivals From New York

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Marriage rates in New York City are at their lowest levels since the era when the Bee Gees ruled the airwaves, Farrah Fawcett sold her own shampoo and the first test-tube baby was born in England.
Economic incentives that make the single life attractive, a dearth of twentysomethings and an increased social acceptance of lives lived under one roof without a certificate are among the chief reasons for the decline, sociologists say. 
 The total number of marriages in the city fell 30 percent between 1997 -- the only year in the last decade when marriage rates soared -- and last year. The 1997 increase was due largely to anticipated changes in federal immigration laws that sent thousands on desperate trips to City Hall in an effort to gain proper legal status. In the last few years, marriage rates in the city have been at their lowest level since the late 1970's. In 1997, the rate per thousand was 9.1; in 1999, it was 7.6, according to preliminary figures.
The New York statistics mirror a national trend: the rate per 1,000 Americans who married in 1998 was 8.3, the lowest since 1958, when 8.4 people per 1,000 were wed.
"The baby boomers basically have all had their initial marriage by now," said Tom Smith, who runs the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago. "And we have a relatively small pool of people in the prime ready-to-get-married age now," he added. That age is about 25; the number of births in the United States declined 16 percent between 1965 and 1975.
Money is a significant factor. Marriage may cause financial strain for some couples, said Linda Waite, a professor of sociology at the University of Chicago who recently wrote a book on marriage. Low-wage earners often find that certain tax credits evaporate with marriage, and some Medicaid recipients lose their benefits when they marry someone who works, even at a low-paying job. Among high-income workers, people bemoan what is known as the marriage tax.
On the flip side, at least one incentive for marriage -- health insurance coverage through a spouse -- has waned. Many state governments and private corporations now offer benefits to domestic partners, often with very liberal definitions of a couple.
But economic factors and even an increase in cohabitation do not fully explain the steep downturn, Professor Waite said, "unless people are cohabitating permanently, and then what you have is a big change in the way we relate to each other."
Ben Speth, 36, who lives in Brooklyn with his girlfriend, Rebecca Hilton, said that his way of relating pleased him just fine.
"I will never be married," he said emphatically. "That doesn't mean I'll be a bachelor. I don't need the state's imprimatur. It is enough for me to love and be loved."
The number of people who choose to live together rather than marry has exploded in the last few decades. Among Americans born in the 1970's, about 65 percent say their first live-in partner was not a spouse. Among people born in the 1940's, the average was closer to 26 percent. Put another way, the number of people now cohabitating is 7 percent of all American couples; in 1960, the figure was 1 percent, according to figures from the National Opinion Research Center.
Pop culture reinforces the notion: Billy and Georgia, the married couple in "Ally McBeal," are splitsville. Over in "Friends," Chandler and Monica are living in unwedded bliss, so far.
New York has always had the reputation of breeding intense careerists who race from the office to the gym to the bedrooms, where they scarf down a plate of penne with vodka sauce alone in front of "Nightline." But people all over the country have chosen to marry later, if at all, after getting set in their careers.
Cheryl Davis of Houston said that as a child, she always imagined herself married by the time she was in her 30's. But after a heartbreak in her mid-20's she turned her attention away from dating and romance and toward building her career as a corporate travel planner.
"My views went a different way," said Ms. Davis, now 33. "I decided to climb that corporate ladder." There were long hours and lots of overtime. There has also been a boyfriend, whom she kept as a "comfort," she said, but never considered marrying.
"I would be disappointed if I never get married," Ms. Davis said. "But I am an independent person and I absorb a lot of the family experiences through my own family."
She is clearly not alone: the number of people who applied for marriage licenses in Houston last year was 23,987, a 23 percent decline since 1995.
Andrea McGinty, the chairwoman of It's Just Lunch, a dating service with offices in 28 cities, said that most New Yorkers who come to her office were hoping to expand their social circle beyond clients and co-workers. But marriage is often far from their minds.
"People are not coming in here saying, 'I've got to get married,' or 'My clock is ticking,' " Ms. McGinty said. "Half of the city was transplanted here for career reasons, so marriage is not as big a priority for them as, say, for people in Indianapolis."
Nadine Benaderet of Manhattan, a publishing account manager, says that each decade of her life brings her a new reason for not focusing on getting married. In her 20's, she was a professional figure skater, which was all-consuming. "In my early 30's," said Ms. Benaderet, who is 38, "I was more concentrated on me and pulling myself together. I was reading books, doing touch therapy, healing yoga, things for me. Then my father was sick, so he was the focus."
She does not believe that any current relationship will result in marriage, and that is just fine with her. "I would like a partner," Ms. Benaderet said, "but not with the marriage tag."
Hundreds of studies in recent years have cited the health and economic benefits of marriage, particularly for men.
"We have looked at well over 1,000 studies that overwhelmingly show the strong and consistent relationship between marriage and well-being," said Professor Waite, whose book "The Case for Marriage" is to be published by Doubleday.
In studies, married people demonstrate stronger financial stability, longer life spans, more active and satisfying sex lives, less alcohol abuse and more sexual fidelity, Professor Waite said. People who live together do not rate nearly as high in these categories, she said, and their relationships do not emulate marriage.
"Cohabitation is a different bargain than marriage," she said. "Unless couples are engaged, they tend to be much less committed. They are unlikely to have joint checking accounts. They are much less likely to be faithful. They spend their leisure time differently. It is not the same."
Is there something inherent in the New York dating experience that prevents marriage? Ms. McGinty, whose dating service puts people together for a single lunch date, leaving the rest to nature, tried to put it gently. "New Yorkers need to understand that it is a date, not a negotiation, and that we need to bring our manners with us. This is not an hour to interview someone. Being able to turn off the workday and use this as personal time would help."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Fewer Marriages" tracks the five year averages for New York City and the United States as a whole since 1920.
(Sources: Department of Health, Office of Vital Statistics; National Center for Health Statistics)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (73%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); COHABITATION (89%); CITIES (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TRENDS (77%); TAX LAW (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MEDICAID (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); IMMIGRATION LAW (54%); IMMIGRATION (54%); BABY BOOMERS (51%); 

PERSON: FARRAH LENI FAWCETT (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



241 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2063 words

HEADLINE: Big Visions, Unfulfilled

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 8

 BODY:
This grand nation boasts a 1,100-year lineage of autocrats, from Ivan the Terrible to Peter the Great; from Aleksei the Quietest One to Uncle Joe Stalin. So the question arises: what to call its first democratic leader, Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin?
Boris the Liberator? True, he ended more than a millennium of dictatorship. But Russian democracy, such as it is, clings to a slim reed. Boris the Beneficent? Mr. Yeltsin did bestow the blessings of capitalism, which has created a new Russian middle class. But his policies also plunged millions into poverty far more grinding than most any American has known. 
 Boris the Peacemaker? Only with the West; the horrors of Chechnya are even now being relived. How about Honest Boris? Few perceive him as downright corrupt; unfortunately, Russian government under his rule was a more-or-less open kleptocracy.
And so it goes. Granted a decade on the world's main stage, Mr. Yelt sin, 68, played it to the hilt, switching strategies, seizing moments and confounding enemies up to his unexpected resignation on New Year's Eve. That he will go down as one of Russia's historic figures, along with Peter, Ivan and even Vladimir Lenin, is beyond question.
But unlike them, Mr. Yeltsin defies pigeonholing. He was a brilliant politician and, perhaps, a lousy president. He put down a Communist revolt in 1993 in the most tyrannical of ways, shelling his own Parliament. But he never tried to stifle Communism itself, however much he detested it; that would have been undemocratic.
"I think the Communists have already banned themselves," he said in an interview last June. "They are political failures."
He had a vision of a Russia that would never persecute innocents the way his own father was persecuted by Stalin. In his country's bleakest hour, at the depths of a K.G.B.-led coup against the Soviet reformer Mikhail S. Gorbachev in 1991, that vision led him to climb atop an armored troop carrier outside his besieged office and, armed only with an idea, bring an empire to its knees.
Mr. Yeltsin seldom had trouble with the big picture. It was the pointillism of policies and laws and bureaucracy that seemed not just to elude him, but to leave him dazed -- or bored, maybe.
He ran through six prime ministers and uncounted deputies, trying to find someone who could turn his dreams into bricks and mortar. In his chosen successor, Vladimir V. Putin, he may have found someone close -- a self-professed democrat with policy skills and a Yeltsin-like fondness for the strong hand.
But oh, the price he paid for the years of searching.
"To have a vision was crucial," said Robert Legvold, a Columbia University political scientist and Russia scholar. "Without it, there would have been disaster. But to have a vision without the ability to implement it is the source of all the problems they have now."
The problems frequently seem to overwhelm the good in Mr. Yeltsin's legacy. From its pinnacle as an empire that put the first man in space and built now-outmoded industry at a dizzying pace, Russia has taken a terrifying fall: the gross domestic product has been halved, the average life span has fallen 2.5 years, the birthrate has dropped by one-third, and the mortality rate has risen by one-quarter -- all just since 1990.
Russia's once-fearsome army now sends soldiers out to forage for mushrooms because there is no money for food. At $33 billion, total spending in the 2000 federal budget is less than what the Kmart Corporation took in from American shoppers last year.
Inflation, while down from the quadruple-digit rate of the early 1990's, is expected to exceed 30 percent this year. Almost a third of the nation scrapes by beneath the official subsistence level -- and the subsistence level is a bare $36 a month.
Some of this wreckage, though not all of it, can be laid at Mr. Yeltsin's feet. Blessed with enormous political momentum after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Kremlin still failed to get Parliament to pass the basic legislation -- land reform, financial regulation, commercial law -- that underpins a capitalist society.
And, in common with leaders of some of the other post-Communist societies, the president let the government fall under the sway of cronies, political supporters and palm-greasers who frequently put the people's interest behind their own.
Mr. Yeltsin's decision to privatize state industries swiftly through a now-infamous voucher program devised by American economists proved an invitation to corruption. Ordinary Russians had no idea what to do with stock certificates, much less how to participate in corporate governance. Entire companies and even industries were snapped up and their assets looted by crooked factory managers, mobsters and tycoons; workers were left holding the empty bag.
The government has fared little better than industry. Internal corruption and political horse-trading caused billions to be squandered on Kremlin renovations and marble-slathered ministry buildings while pensions and teachers' salaries went unpaid.
Favoritism is common: it is hard to envision another major nation selling its oil fields at cut-rate prices to political supporters, for example, or calmly allowing the state-run railroads to funnel its freight through a Swiss forwarder tied to the son of the former railways minister.
Such unending corruption has not just sapped the government of money and manpower, it has all but destroyed public confidence in the Yeltsin government and blackened his family name. Why Mr. Yeltsin has so stoically accepted it is one of the great mysteries of his reign.
Grigory A. Yavlinsky, the reform-minded leader of the Yabloko party, once recalled giving Mr. Yeltsin an urgent warning about bureaucratic thievery, only to be greeted with a sigh and a shrug. "Grigory Alekseyevich," Mr. Yeltsin is said to have replied, "What do you expect? Russia has always been corrupt."
It is easy to heap the blame for these crushing failures on Mr. Yelt sin, and to his credit, he has shouldered it. In his emotional farewell speech on Dec. 31, he asked forgiveness from those who thought independence would produce overnight pie-in-the-sky, adding a bit ruefully, "I myself believed in this -- that we could overcome everything in one spurt."
In his defense, however, Russia today seems permanently and irremediably a capitalist state -- flawed and not wholly privatized, maybe, but with a growing base of small businesses, a rudimentary banking system and a currency in which the people have a modicum of confidence.
Even the disastrous economic collapse last year, which wiped out many Russians' savings for the second time in a decade, has proved something of a blessing by dragging the ruble down to a realistic value, making exports too expensive for most people and thus sparking a real revival in domestic production. Russia's economy actually grew last year, and is poised to grow again in 2000.
Westerners are quick to attack the theft, ineptitude and backsliding that has marked every step of Mr. Yeltsin's reign. But in retrospect, neither they nor Mr. Yeltsin may have appreciated the enormous cultural gulf between his Russian heritage and the Western ideals he sought to graft onto his homeland.
This is, after all, a land that had never known a free vote or a civil-servant bureaucracy. Or, for that matter, a competitive bid. Mr. Yelt sin, after all, was not Jefferson or Locke, but a party apparatchik from Sverdlovsk, a hard-line Communist who once oversaw the order to bulldoze the house where Czar Nicholas II and his family were massacred decades before at Lenin's behest.
Mr. Yeltsin's coming of age is all the more heroic for that. A peasant construction worker from the Ural Mountains, he was a latecomer to the Communist bureaucracy, at 30. But he quickly rose to become the Sverdlovsk party leader on the strength of his personality and no-nonsense approach.
It seems unlikely that he was unaware of the inhumanity of the system for which he worked. When Mr. Yeltsin was but 3, in 1934, Stalin's enforcers sent his father, Nikolai Ignatievich, to a labor camp simply for being a kulak -- a landowning peasant.
In his 1994 autobiography, "The Struggle for Russia," Mr. Yeltsin wrote that he came to know the details of his father's persecution -- the pettiness of the charges against him, the identities of his accusers -- only after coming to power in Moscow and examining the Cheka files on the case.
" 'Owned, owned, owned' -- that was why he was guilty," Mr. Yeltsin wrote. "He had worked a lot and taken responsibility on himself. Did the Chekists' machinery really gobble up people so senselessly? Perhaps my life would have taken a different turn had I been able to see my father's file earlier."
When Mr. Gorbachev, a smoother and more outwardly ambitious man, dragooned him to run the city of Moscow in 1985, Mr. Yeltsin was an instant hit -- an opinionated, straightforward breath of fresh air who actually seemed to listen to citizens' complaints.
Mr. Gorbachev quickly came to see him in another light, that of a rough-edged blowhard who wanted his job. In 1987, Mr. Yeltsin was removed from atop the Moscow Communist apparatus -- a political death sentence -- after criticizing the snail's pace of Mr. Gorbachev's reforms. Soon afterward he was hospitalized because of the first of a series of heart problems.
But he did not give up. Over Mr. Gorbachev's objections, he landed a seat in the Russian Parliament, then became its chairman. In 1990, he quit the Communist Party. In 1991, he overwhelmingly won election as president of Russia, then still a Soviet republic. Three months later, when the K.G.B. started a putsch against an increasingly vacillating Mr. Gorbachev, Mr. Yeltsin grabbed the reins of the democratic movement, leading a genuinely popular revolution.
By the end of the year, Mr. Gorbachev had resigned, the Soviet Union was demolished, and Mr. Yeltsin and leaders of other major Soviet republics had agreed to go their separate ways. It was the greatest peaceful revolution of the 20th century.
Mr. Yeltsin's instincts, toward individual liberty and market capitalism, were certainly right by Western standards. It is his execution that has been criticized.
He has shown undue enthusiasm for manipulating the news media and spending wads of illicit cash to ensure his side's electoral victories -- not just in the December parliamentary elections, but also in 1996 when his own re-election was at stake.
He is roundly condemned for putting down the 1993 Communist uprising by shelling the very Parliament where his appearance atop an armored vehicle had peacefully defused a coup. More than 150 people died in the ensuing battle.
To be sure, Mr. Yeltsin was in the fight of his life, moving against coup plotters who already had called for a military revolt and for his arrest -- and who seemed perilously close to accomplishing both.
But his reputation has never quite recovered among average Russians, whose tolerance for political upheaval already was long past the breaking point.
Some others, however, see his excesses as a blessing.
"He was an autocrat who forced himself to be a democrat," said Edvard S. Radzinsky, a Russian historian and chronicler of the Romanov dynasty. "Even when he destroyed the Parliament at the White House and had the right to arrest many people for life, he didn't do it. He understood that he had to set an example."
In a curious way, Mr. Yeltsin's failings are his asset. A true czar might have yanked Russia out of Communism and into a capitalist economy more cleanly, but without freedom. A purer democrat would have succumbed to the 1993 coup that Mr. Yeltsin so decisively suppressed.
Mr. Yeltsin, a czar with a democratic heart, made a mess of the process from start to finish. And a decade into independence, his nation is bloodied, bereft, penniless, sick -- and still, by somewhat generous standards, free, for the first time in history.
"Our history is both cursed and magnificent," Mr. Yeltsin wrote in his autobiography. "It is fitting that in Russia the tragedies, these contradictory strands of history, are so tightly woven together."
He was referring to Stalin. But he could as easily have been writing about the Russia created by Boris the Bold -- and about himself.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boris N. Yeltsin, at a Victory Day parade last May, has overseen a terrifying fall in Russian society, with problems that include shrinking life spans, grinding poverty and rampant corruption. But there are hints of improvement, and the nation remains free, for the first time in its history. (Alexander Zemlianichenko/Associated Press)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); COUPS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



242 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: The Shepherdstown 'Slows': Can Clinton Prevail?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: SHEPHERDSTOWN, W.Va., Jan. 8

 BODY:
From hilltops in this pre-Civil War town where Israel and Syria have negotiated all week, you can just make out the farm across the Potomac River where Abraham Lincoln met Gen. George B. McClellan in a tent and complained that he suffered from "the slows" after the battle of Antietam.
This week, traveling here almost daily to deal with a very different conflict, Bill Clinton found himself struggling to cure the same affliction. 
 Day after day, his helicopter would land on a college baseball field, and he would spend hours trying to get Israel's prime minister, Ehud Barak, and Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara, to begin hashing out the details of a deal whose rough outlines have been obvious for years. And day after day he was confronted by political posturing over what would be discussed first, and who would be seen to make the first concessions, all intended to make a convincing show half a world away that neither side was willing to give in to a longtime enemy.
Mr. Clinton and his secretary of state, Madeleine K. Albright, are betting that this is just a phase in the multi-act performance of peacemaking, and one that may now have run its course.
On Friday, they handed Mr. Barak and Mr. Shara a seven-page working paper that the United States hopes will become the basis for what in diplo-speak is called a "core agreement" between the two countries.
It would lay out the rough boundaries of the land Israel will surrender, 33 years after it seized the Golan Heights in the Arab-Israeli war, and how the two sides would share scarce water resources. And it would roughly define the kind of security guarantees and steps toward normalized relations an ailing President Hafez el-Assad of Syria would be willing to grant in return, a delicate balancing act for a leader who realizes he can no longer afford economic and diplomatic isolation, but fears that openness could threaten the iron control over the country he wants to pass to his son.
No one expected that the talks that began here in this town of 1,300 would be resolved in a week. As the weekend began, diplomats said Mr. Barak and Mr. Shara would most likely leave on Sunday or Monday to ponder the working paper for a few weeks before resuming talks. And even then, it is still not clear if either side is prepared to make the psychological and political leap required for a deal that would give Israel at least a cold peace with its immediate neighbors.
"This is difficult stuff," Mr. Clinton said as he headed out to Shepherdstown one more time this week, canceling other business in Washington to stick with the talks. "They are trying to imagine the end of the road."
Then he disappeared into the heavily guarded hotel, and a news blackout that is intended to force the two reluctant negotiating teams to go at it until they actually get something done.
But the slowness of this week's progress, and the carefully orchestrated, quite public delaying tactics, raise the question of whether the now well-rehearsed technique of locking Israel and its adversaries in a negotiating arena, cut off from other distractions, still works as well as it once did.
After all, in an age of cell phones and e-mail, there is no such thing as real isolation. Each day, the Syrian delegation would call the Syrian reporters camped out in a school gymnasium a mile away, the Israeli delegation would call Israeli reporters, and Americans would hold news conferences describing the day's efforts to keep the two sides talking. Few details of actual negotiating positions seeped out, but it is, as one negotiator said, "a bit early for strategic leaks."
The technique worked, of course, at Camp David in 1978, during the Israel-Egypt negotiations, and again at the Wye Plantation in 1998, where a framework for peace with the Palestinians was hammered out.
That model -- holding talks outside of Washington, but close enough for President Clinton to fly in within 45 minutes to break logjams -- is the logic of Shepherdstown. But it also seems as if the negotiators have adapted to their environment and have learned to resist some of the pressures that arise from talking endlessly in close quarters.
"This whole idea of putting people into castles with moats, or even small villages, has at best a marginal impact," concluded Richard N. Haass, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who served on the National Security Council under President Bush. "Cell phones and other technology leapfrog the barriers, of course," he said. "And the issues don't get any easier."
In this case, he noted, the issues and the negotiating positions are so well aired that "you could hold the whole thing in Dupont Circle," just up the road from the White House.
But the American mediators are still enamored of the Appalachian approach, convinced that fresh air and no microphones is the only real treatment for the slows. By design, it makes the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, the only real television presence -- preventing the most public forms of grandstanding on the evening news in the Mideast.
And it showcases Mr. Clinton as the mediator, the only man both sides will really trust, not a bad image for a leader spending his last year in office seeking a firm niche in history.
Mr. Rubin insists that technology notwithstanding, moats still work. "We do believe that developing a format that is isolated, and that limits disclosure of each side's positions, focuses energy on the hard job of real decisions," he said on Friday. "To do it without this kind of isolation it is hard to imagine how any decision could be made before it is preempted by somebody who doesn't agree with it."
"The Wye precedent," he said, "showed that the American-designed cocoon can and does work -- even though it won't always work."
The Americans are also betting that the Syrians, far more isolated than most of the large Mideast players and a lot less media savvy than Yasir Arafat, have yet to learn the art of spin. And Mr. Barak's government, one diplomat involved in the talks said, "is less public relations oriented" than the government of Benjamin Netanyahu, his predecessor. That may come to haunt Mr. Barak, however, when he tries to sell any eventual deal to the Israeli public, which would have to approve it in a national referendum.
But in the end, the atmospherics of the talks may prove less critical than the strategic calculations behind them.
Mr. Clinton is betting that the moment for peace has arrived because the political calculus has changed. Mr. Barak, unlike his predecessor, clearly views the value of the Golan's buffer zone as a diminishing defensive asset. Continuing to hold it promises continued troubles in Syrian-controlled Lebanon, where he has vowed to withdraw Israeli troops.
And with the right mix of early-warning systems, a reduced Syrian troop presence on the border, new American weaponry and an agreement to begin normalization of relations, Mr. Barak, a former general, apparently believes he can give up the land without damaging Israeli security. Selling that position to a public that has come to view the Golan as the key to national survival, however, is another matter. That is why he has insisted on talking security first, and the return of the Golan second.
Mr. Assad knows that he has little hope of retaking the Golan by force. His military power is eroding, along with his economy. Getting the Golan back in his lifetime would cement his place in history, assuming he can do it on terms that do not undercut his rule, or his son's succession. That is why he has insisted on talking about land and water first, security and "normal diplomatic relations" second.
It is still unclear whether that logjam -- and with it the slows -- is now broken. President Lincoln had to fire General McClellan to get the Army of the Potomac moving. That is not one of the choices open to Mr. Clinton, who must take the generals and diplomats he is dealt.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton with Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara of Syria, left, and Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, right, at Shepherdstown. (The White House)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%); BASEBALL (55%); WATER QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); EHUD BARAK (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



243 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Smooth 2000 Transition Puzzles Experts

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Whether it is with scorn, anger or resignation, most computer experts and Year 2000 program managers brush off suggestions that they overreacted to the Y2K threat, taken in by computer companies and consultants positioned to profit from fear.
Still, like the skeptics, many wonder: How did countries that started so late -- and appeared to do so little -- manage to enter 2000 as smoothly as nations like the United States and Britain that got an early jump? 
 "That question is plaguing all of us, although some people won't admit it," said Maggie Parent, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's representative to Global 2000, an international banking group formed to coordinate and stimulate Year 2000 work. "We expected there to be some significant blowouts."
A World Bank survey published last January said that just 54 of 139 developing countries had Year 2000 programs outlined and only 21 were taking concrete steps to prepare.
Japan, China, Italy and Venezuela showed up as high-profile question marks in various studies. Paraguay's Year 2000 coordinator said last summer the country would experience so many disruptions its government would have to impose martial law. Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova were seen as so risky that the State Department issued travel advisories and called nonessential personnel home.
So what accounts for the surprisingly quiet rollover? Computer experts cite several factors. Even they may have underestimated how hard many countries worked in the last few months and how much help came from others that started early. And in many cases, assessments of overseas readiness were based on scarce or vague data.
But the simplest if most embarrassing explanation is that some public and private analysts who testified before Congress and were widely quoted overestimated the world's dependence on computer technology. Most countries had much less to do to prepare because they are far less computerized than the United States. The computers they do have are much less likely to be tied together in complex systems and are often so old that they run much simpler software, according to Louis Marcoccio, Year 2000 research director for the Gartner Group, a technology consulting firm.
At a briefing last week on why Pentagon analysts overestimated the risks in many countries, Deputy Defense Secretary John Hamre said, "If we had a failing, it may be that we extrapolated to the rest of the world the kind of business practices that we have developed here."
Once adjustments are made for technology dependence, some analysts say, the investment of the United States and other pacesetters in Year 2000 preparations was not that far out of line with those that started late. But the figures from many countries are so unreliable that it is hard to be sure. Russia, for example, is estimated to have spent anywhere from $200 million to $1 billion.
Mr. Marcoccio suspects the lower figures are closest to the truth, but he adds that based on the government's estimate that the United States spent $100 billion, "If Russia spent $400 million, they spent proportionally more than the United States, because the United States is 300 times more reliant on computers."
Such assessments lead down a pathway that only a statistician could love. Use Gartner's estimate that the United States spent $150 billion to $225 billion, and the comparable Russia investment jumps to a minimum of $500 million. Tamper with Gartner's guess that the United States is 300 times as computer-dependent, and figures dance another direction.
But nearly everyone agrees that the figures for the United States include substantial sums toward preparations abroad by American multinationals. Motorola said its $225 million Year 2000 budget included not just repairs at its overseas factories but, for example, helping its Asian suppliers pinpoint potential flaws.
The federal government picked up part of the tab for foreign nations, paying for many of them to send representatives to the first United Nations meeting on Year 2000 in late 1998. It distributed hundreds of thousands of CD's in 10 languages providing suggestions for organizing Year 2000 projects. The Defense Department provided $8 million to set up a joint observation post in Colorado as insurance against miscommunication that could lead to missiles' being launched.
Such aid played a bigger role in helping late starters catch up than most people realize, some experts say. As John A. Koskinen, chairman of the President's Council on Year 2000 Conversion, sees it, hype about the magnitude of the problem misled fewer people than hype about the impossibility of getting it fixed.
"This was a process that could move faster than the preparedness surveys," Mr. Koskinen said, noting that alarming press releases and testimony frequently relied on research that was obsolete within weeks.
It helped that repair efforts became less expensive toward the end because of the experience gained by those who did the work early, according to Brian Robbins, senior vice president in charge of the Year 2000 project at Chase.
By 1998, the pacesetters were far enough along for a sense to develop that others were lagging, and fears about the consequences began building. There were extenuating circumstances in some cases, like the economic slump in Asia, and many realized the problems would not be as daunting as in the United States. But with time short, industry groups like Global 2000 and a few countries began trying a variety of tactics to accelerate Year 2000 preparations.
Still, many of those most familiar with the relative preparedness and spending levels in many countries wonder if it will be possible to figure out why things went so smoothly.
Information was always hard to get and compare since sources varied so widely in what costs they attributed to Year 2000 work. Many countries have not included labor costs in their Year 2000 figures while the United States and Britain have, but practices have varied widely.
Now that 2000 has arrived, the pressure to sort out such data is disappearing. Still, questions will not go away. What actually happened might figure in insurance lawsuits because if courts were to decide insurers were liable for the money companies spent to avoid problems, the insurers would undoubtedly cite the success of laggards and low spenders as a sign that budgets for American companies were bloated.
More broadly though, comparing preparations and the results achieved may shed valuable light on cultural differences in how technology is set up and managed, according to Edward Tenner, author of "Why Things Bite Back." That in turn could help society deal with problems like global warming and the proper use of biotechnology. "We really need to look at the sociology of computing in detail," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



244 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Gore Attacks Bradley on Agriculture Votes and Medicare

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JAMES DAO

DATELINE: JOHNSTON, Iowa, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Setting aside the bitter sarcasm of their previous encounters, Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley today made direct appeals to farmers and senior citizens, two important voting segments in Iowa, in the first of their series of debates to be held in this state.
Mr. Gore prodded Mr. Bradley on several Senate votes that Mr. Gore said had gone against the interest of agriculture, including those against ethanol, crop insurance and price supports for farmers. Perhaps most dramatically, Mr. Gore highlighted Mr. Bradley's vote against federal disaster relief for farmers by singling out Chris Peterson, a farmer in the audience, and describing the 1993 flooding of 300 of his 400 acres. 
 Mr. Bradley used the question to say that the nation needed real leadership and a change in its agriculture policy. He noted that President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who had been criticized as being bad for farmers, appointed an Iowa farm boy, Henry Wallace, as his agriculture secretary, implying he would appoint someone of similar stature in the farming community.
Mr. Bradley later asked: "Are you better off than you were seven years ago, or do we need to take a step to change?" The question served the double purpose of evoking the insurgent spirit of Ronald Reagan, who used the same thought against President Jimmy Carter in 1980, and highlighting the difficulties faced by farmers in an otherwise booming economy.
Mr. Gore also hammered Mr. Bradley on the subject of Medicare. He faulted Mr. Bradley for not offering a proposal to bolster Medicare, the government health-care program for the elderly, which is expected to be insolvent by the year 2015. He also asserted that a proposal by Mr. Bradley to expand Medicare's coverage of prescription drugs would fall well short of helping low-income people. The elderly represent the largest bloc of voters in the Iowa caucuses.
Mr. Gore said of Mr. Bradley's lack of urgency about Medicare: "It kind of reminds me of the guy who fell out of the 10-story building and, as he passed the fifth floor, he shouted, 'Well, so far, so good.' "
Mr. Bradley, who has invoked President Roosevelt in recent weeks as an example of a president who was able to enact several major programs at once, said that because the federal surplus has continued to grow, there would be enough money to establish universal health care and to preserve Medicare.
"I think we can do both," he said, repeating the phrase for emphasis.
The two Democratic candidates met here, in this small town near Des Moines, under the auspices of Iowa Public Television just 16 days before voters here attend their caucuses and begin each party's selection of its presidential candidates. Mr. Gore came into the encounter buoyed by the news trumpeted in The Des Moines Register today that Mr. Gore is leading Mr. Bradley among likely voters here in a new Register poll, 54 percent to 33 percent.
Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley were coming off a particularly edgy debate Wednesday, and Mr. Gore, for one, seemed decidedly determined to shuck the label of combatant. He resisted opportunities to snipe back at his opponent, though a couple of times he corrected Mr. Bradley and repeated his message of the last week, that Mr. Bradley is too theoretical and impractical for the rough world of politics.
Mr. Bradley's goal was to raise questions about Mr. Gore's leadership qualities and to suggest that he, Mr. Bradley, would be the true agent of change.
On the matter of revamping the campaign finance system, for instance, he said, "There is a question here, is who's going to mobilize and get this change? I have put it out there and talked about it in every meeting I go to, because I believe the American people have to take over here. I believe the American people, by voting for me to give me the mandate, will overcome the special interests in Washington."
He did not raise the matter of gays in the military. The matter has dogged Mr. Gore since their Wednesday debate, when he suggested he would apply a "litmus test," requiring that any appointee to the Joint Chiefs of Staff agree with him that gays should be allowed to serve openly in the military. Mr. Gore backpedaled on Friday, saying he did not mean to suggest he would conduct inquiries into the political views of his military appointees.
In his opening statement, Mr. Gore responded to a remark by Mr. Bradley in the previous debate, when he accused the vice president of having a "bunker mentality" after having spent so many years in Washington.
"I want to start by telling you what we were doing in that Washington bunker," Mr. Gore said. "We created 20 million new jobs, cut the welfare rolls in half, passed the toughest gun control in a generation and created the strongest economy in the history of the United States of America.
"Now, we have a fight to continue our future with prosperity," he said. "I want universal health care, dramatic improvements in all of our schools and help for farmers. That's not a bunker; those are the front lines in the fight for our future."
Mr. Bradley used his opening statement to remind his Iowa audience that he was born and raised in a small Midwestern town in Missouri, just to the south. "A lot of the small towns that I've gone through and met people in Iowa remind me of that small town in Missouri," he said.
The two candidates were offered opportunities to ask each other a question, and each used his time to hit at what he considered a central weakness of his rival.
Mr. Bradley, who has run as an outsider, trying to capitalize on anger toward President Clinton, asked Mr. Gore why so many fewer people trusted government today.
Mr. Gore began in a somewhat rambling way, saying that after college, "I thought politics would be the very last thing I ever did with my life." But he was quickly able to find his footing by turning the question around and re-issuing his challenge to Mr. Bradley to replace campaign commercials with frequent debates. Mr. Bradley has refused the challenge, arguing that he is less known than the vice president and needs 30-second commercials to get his message out.
"I know that you have said no, but as they say on that millionaire show, is that your final answer?" Mr. Gore said.
Mr. Bradley replied, "I think there's another element too, and that is candidates going out and telling people what they believe, not thinking polls but telling people what they believe."
Then in a display of what he could accomplish in a 30-second commercial, he said: "And in 30 seconds, you can say a lot. I'm for a woman's right to choose. I'm for affordable quality health care accessible to all Americans. I'm for education improvement in this country. I am for trying to make sure campaign finance reform is a reality, that working families have a better chance to advance and that we eliminate child poverty in this country. How's that?"
Given his opportunity to ask Mr. Bradley a question, Mr. Gore asked a member of the audience to stand and introduced Mr. Peterson, the owner of a farm that had been devastated in floods in 1993. He then asked Mr. Bradley why he had voted in the Senate against a disaster relief bill that would have helped Mr. Peterson.
Mr. Bradley sidestepped the question and instead criticized the Clinton administration's farm policy, saying it had failed to stem the closing of family farms. "You know, Al, I think that the premise of your question is wrong," Mr. Bradley replied. "This is not about the past. This is about the future. This is about what we are going to do to change the agriculture policy we've had over the last eight to 10 years, during Republicans and Democrats."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Senator Bill Bradley, left, and Vice President Al Gore, in Iowa yesterday, debated on health care, education and farm policy. (Photographs by The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DES MOINES REGISTER (50%); MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); CROP INSURANCE (71%); DISASTER RELIEF (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); HEALTH CARE (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000



245 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: MediaTalk;
Writer Fights Subpoenain Sheppard Case

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
More than 45 years after Marilyn Sheppard was murdered in her Cleveland home, the case that inspired the television series "The Fugitive" is still generating heat. The case is back in court again, and a battle is emerging involving the media: prosecutors want the files of an investigative reporter who is writing a book about the case; the writer is fighting the subpoena, and his lawyers are charging that prosecutors have threatened to do him financial harm.
The battle comes 33 years after Dr. Sam Sheppard, Mrs. Sheppard's husband, was retried in the murder and acquitted. He had served 10 years before the Supreme Court overturned the conviction. 
 The writer, James Neff, a 46-year-old former reporter for The Cleveland Plain Dealer, plans in his book to recount the latest trial, which is set to begin on Jan. 31 in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court, to determine whether Dr. Sheppard was innocent or was simply not guilty. If the jury determines that he was innocent, his estate will be able to sue the State of Ohio for lost wages and $250,000 for the 10 years he spent in prison. Dr. Sheppard died in 1970.
The Cuyahoga County prosecutor has issued a subpoena seeking all the evidence that Mr. Neff collected. Mr. Neff said he feared the evidence would enter the public record and thus be available "to somebody doing a quickie book."
"This is a government taking of years of my work," he said.
David L. Marburger, the First Amendment specialist at the Baker & Hostetler law firm in Cleveland who is representing Mr. Neff, said a prosecutor, Dean Boland, had threatened that "if Neff did not cooperate, they would put him on the witness list" for the trial and then get a court order barring him from the courtroom until he testified, perhaps as the last witness.
William D. Mason, the Cuyahoga County prosecutor, said he was convinced that Mr. Boland had not made such remarks. Mr. Mason said he could appreciate that Mr. Neff felt threatened both journalistically and economically, but he said Mr. Neff appeared to have evidence central to the case, including the original 1954 police reports.
Steve Dever, the lead prosecutor on the Sheppard civil case, said that any First Amendment issues "must be subordinated to our search for the truth."
Mr. Neff is the author of three books, including "Mobbed Up," a 1989 biography of Jackie Presser, the Teamsters Union president who was secretly an F.B.I. informant. The book became the basis of the film "Teamster Boss." Random House will publish his book on the Sheppard case, tentatively titled "Chasing the Fugitive."
Esther Newberg, Mr. Neff's agent, said "it is hideous that he would have to turn over" a decade of work.
Prosecutors want material from Mr. Neff's interviews with Richard Eberling, a window washer who worked for the Sheppards. DNA evidence uncovered in 1998 by Terry H. Gilbert, the lawyer for the Sheppard estate, implicated Mr. Eberling while appearing to exonerate Dr. Sheppard. The prosecutor's office, which maintains that Dr. Sheppard killed his wife, says that evidence should be inadmissible because the crime scene was contaminated.
Mr. Eberling died while serving a life sentence for killing another woman. DAVID CAY JOHNSTON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Sam Sheppard in 1966, a dozen years after his wife was killed. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BAKER & HOSTETLER LLP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND (OHIO); OHIO; UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WRITERS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LITIGATION (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); ACQUITTAL (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); 

PERSON: NEFF, JAMES; BOLAND, DEAN; SHEPPARD, MARILYN (D1954); SHEPPARD, SAM (DR) (1923-70); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY MARILYN SHEPPARD (96%); JAMES NEFF (95%); RICHARD EBERLING (63%); WILLIAM D MASON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



246 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Promotes Editor Who Criticized Profits Deal

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
In the wake of the rebellion in the newsroom of The Los Angeles Times after the disclosure of its profit-sharing agreement with the Staples Center sports arena, Michael Parks, the newspaper's editor, has given day-to-day responsibility for the paper to one of the critics of the deal.
Leo Wolinsky, who had been one of four managing editors, was promoted to executive editor. The announcement was greeted with applause when made on Friday, said Henry Weinstein, a Times reporter. Mr. Wolinsky will have "overall responsibility for The Times's newsroom operations," a statement said. 
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Wolinsky said the changes were "the result of Michael's introspection following Staples."
"And it's not just Staples," he added. "It's his estimation of everything we've seen since then and what's wrong with the system."
The disclosure of the unusual arrangement to share with the Staples Center the profits from an issue of the paper's Sunday magazine devoted to the opening of the arena infuriated the Times newsroom.
The cause of their fury was summed up by John Morton, an industry analyst, who wrote recently that the deal broke two newspaper "golden rules." First, that "readers should always know what is and is not for sale in the newspaper." Second, that "a newspaper should never have an economic, political or other interest in enterprises or institutions that are subject to news coverage."
Mr. Parks had been widely criticized for failing to scuttle the agreement, to kill the Sunday magazine or to inform readers of the arrangement. According to both Mr. Wolinsky and Mr. Weinstein, Mr. Parks told the staff on Friday that he had considered resigning in recent weeks but had rejected the idea, saying he thinks he can play a positive role.
In a long reconstruction of the events surrounding the Staples Center deal, the Times media critic, David Shaw, quoted Mr. Parks as saying, "I underestimated the impact of the Staples arrangement on our credibility, on the journalistic ethos that we foster, on our standing in the community and in the profession. And for all those things, I have profound regret."
The statement said Mr. Parks had also appointed Ardith Hilliard, the editor of the newspaper's San Fernando Valley edition, as associate editor and assistant to the editor. She will be responsible in part for ensuring that the newspaper's new set of guidelines for contacts between the business and editorial sides of the paper, owned by the Times Mirror Company, are followed.
In an interview on Friday, Mr. Wolinsky said the Staples Center controversy "made us look at the basic values of journalism in the newsroom."
"We're really in a back-to-basics mode here," Mr. Wolinsky said. "All these other concerns about increasing revenues and developing new products -- that's fine for the paper. It's not fine for the newsroom." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%); TIMES MIRROR CO (61%); STAPLES CENTER (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES TIMES STAPLES CENTER (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; STAPLES CENTER (LOS ANGELES); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES NEWS REPORTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; PARKS, MICHAEL; WOLINSKY, LEO JOHN MORTON III (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



247 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Influx of New Immigrants Found in Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 9

 BODY:
The Internet boom is bringing sweeping demographic changes to Silicon Valley, according to an annual report card for the region, which shows that the number of nonwhite residents surpassed whites for the first time in 1999.
The influx of new immigrants, particularly Asians and Hispanic people, also is increasing a "digital divide," said an annual report to be issued on Monday by Joint Venture Silicon Valley, a coalition of corporate and civic groups. 
 People who describe themselves as white now comprise 49 percent of the population of the counties of San Mateo and Santa Clara, Silicon Valley's main geographic area. Among the region's school-age population, whites are an even smaller minority, said the report, which is prepared each year by researchers at Collaborative Economics, a consulting firm here.
The two counties' school-age population is now 39 percent white, 31 percent Hispanic, 26 percent Asian and Pacific Islander, 4 percent African-American and 0.2 percent American Indian, the report found.
The changes reflect both traditional immigration patterns and a new wave of high-skilled, highly entrepreneurial immigrants moving to Silicon Valley, while at the same time maintaining close ties with their homelands, said AnnaLee Saxenian, a social scientist on the advisory committee for the report.
"The best and the brightest in the world all want to be here," said Ms. Saxenian, who is a senior fellow at the Institute for Economic Policy Research at Stanford University.
The Joint Venture index, which has been issued each year since 1994 as a broad assessment of the valley's economy and social and environment, also showed that while the region's boom is continuing, job growth slowed in 1999.
The valley added just 1.7 percent, or 21,200, new jobs, despite an increase of nearly 90 percent in venture capital, to $6.1 billion. That was down from a recent high of 5.2 percent in 1997, when the region added more than 60,000 workers.
The declining growth rate suggests a shift away from traditional manufacturing sectors like microelectronics, semiconductors, computers and military-aerospace manufacturing, said Douglas Henton, president of Collaborative Economics.
"There has been a continuing restructuring away from hardware and toward software," he said, noting that the average size of a Silicon Valley software company is now 27 people, smaller than the mainstay semiconductor companies that employ thousands.
More than half of the new high technology job growth in the valley last year was in software and related services while both semiconductors and defense/aerospace employment declined, the report found.
Competition for programmers, driven by Internet start-up companies, accelerated, with the average annual wage for the software industry at $95,800 in 1998, the most recent year for which data is available.
The high salaries of skilled workers, however, contrasts sharply with the largest employment sector of the region's economy -- local and visitor services, which include retail and restaurant workers and had an annual average wage of $22,900.
Moreover, adjusted household income for the most affluent 20 percent of Santa Clara County residents rose about $40,000 from 1996 to 1998, to just below $140,000 a year. But for the least affluent 20 percent, the 1998 level of $36,700 remains below the average income level earned by the bottom 20 percent of households in the early 1990's, when adjusted for inflation.
"Although the valley is doing well," Mr. Henton said, "it has got to do a much better job in working to prepare everyone for the digital economy."
Despite the income disparity, the valley has continued to outpace the financial standing of the rest of the nation. During the 1990's, for example, real per capita income for Santa Clara County rose 32 percent, compared with 13 percent for the nation.
The changes described in this year's report come at a time when the valley is having its longest boom ever, which traces to 1992 and was highlighted by a record 77 initial public stock offerings by companies in the region during 1999.
The slowing job growth did bring some good environmental news. Despite continuing traffic woes, the valley had fewer days when the region's air quality exceeded federal ozone standards. Air pollution exceeded federal standards on 12 days in 1999, down from 21 days in 1998.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "Changing Demographics"
In Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties, the area known as Silicon Valley, people who identify themselves as white are now a minority of the population.
 
Graph plots and projects white and non-white populations from 1995 to 2006.
 
In 1999, whites were estimated to be an even smaller proportion among children ages 4 to 18.
 
White -- 38.6%
Hispanic* -- 31.3%
Asian and Pacific Islander -- 25.8%
Black -- 4.0%
American Indian -- 0.2%
*May be of any race
(Source: Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network; California Dept. of Finance)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JOINT VENTURE: SILICON VALLEY NETWORK (GROUP) STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT VENTURE: SILICON VALLEY NETWORK (GROUP) STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LABOR IMMIGRATION (92%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); STARTUPS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); REFUGEES (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (66%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (61%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



248 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Economists Debate Solution for Microsoft Case

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 9

 BODY:
Prominent experts in the Microsoft antitrust case replayed their arguments at the American Economic Association's annual conference over the weekend, and some proposed measures that United States District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson might impose if the case reaches a penalty phase.
One penalty proposed on Saturday by Robert E. Hall, a Stanford University economist, was a multibillion-dollar fine representing the amount that he estimated the Microsoft Corporation tacked onto the price of its Windows software because of its monopoly power. 
 In a second proposal, Steven J. Davis, a University of Chicago economist, did not suggest a specific penalty but said that whatever penalties Judge Jackson decides, he should let Microsoft keep "bundling" Internet browsers with other software in its Windows operating system.
"Even if you share the view that Microsoft engaged in anticompetitive practices, one has to think very hard about remedies that restrict complementarities," Mr. Davis said, referring to the practice of offering separate software in a single package at a price that undervalued some elements, like Internet Explorer.
"Any remedy that restricts Microsoft's ability to compete in complementary software," Mr. Davis said, "would raise prices to consumers, lower profits and reduce incentives to innovate."
Mr. Hall describes himself as an independent expert, serving neither the Justice Department nor Microsoft in the federal antitrust trial, in which Judge Jackson has issued findings of fact that Microsoft engaged in anticompetitive practices intended to give its Explorer an unfair advantage over Netscape and other competing Web browsers. Mr. Davis is a paid consultant for Microsoft. Nearly all the others who spoke here were on one side or the other in the case.
Reporting the results of a mathematical model, Mr. Hall said that Microsoft overpriced Windows, taking advantage of its market power. But the overpricing did not offer the prospect of enough profit to encourage personal computer makers to develop an operating system of their own and offer it to customers in place of Windows, along with alternatives to Microsoft's browser.
With their own operating system, manufacturers could nullify pressure from Microsoft to favor Internet Explorer over Netscape and other browsers, a key issue in the antitrust case. Mr. Hall calculated the overpricing at $11, from a price of about $60 for Windows software. Thus, if PC makers had their own operating system, they could lower the price of a computer by $11 each, he said, saving purchasers about $6 billion over the next five years.
"If the creation of this artificial barrier were Microsoft's only wrongdoing, then the damages owed to past purchasers of computers are a similar number," Mr. Hall went on, suggesting a fine. "More aggressive punishment of Microsoft, such as breaking it up into competing entities that lowered shareholder value by more than $6 billion may fail the standard of fitting the punishment to the crime." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN MICROSOFT CORP (92%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; FINES (PENALTIES) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (95%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); JUDGES (90%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MODELING & SIMULATION (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); MATHEMATICS (62%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE); HALL, ROBERT E; DAVIS, STEVEN J STEVEN J DAVIS (81%); THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



249 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Gateway Plans to Use Chips From Advanced Micro Again
The computer maker Gateway, which has attributed an earnings shortfall to chip supply problems caused by Intel, plans to announce today that it will again be using microprocessors produced by Intel's archrival, Advanced Micro Devices.
Only last year, Gateway switched from buying some chips from Advanced Micro to relying on Intel alone. But last week, the company described Intel's shipments as "severely constrained, spotty and unreliable." Executives said that the company would not remain so dependent on a sole supplier. Page C8. 

British Telecom Considers Esat Bid
British Telecommunications is considering a bid for Esat Telecom Group, possibly rescuing it from a hostile offer from Telenor of Norway, executives close to the talks said. C6.
 
Profit Seen in the Counterculture
After years of being accused of selling out by their passionate, political writers and readers, many publishers of alternative weeklies are basking in the comforts of capitalism, as the sale of The Village Voice demonstrated last week. The sassy fringe of the newspaper industry is now getting attention from private investors who have come to believe that alternative weeklies, perennial prodigals, are reservoirs of value. C13.
 
The Evolution of Silicon Valley
The Internet boom is bringing sweeping demographic changes to Silicon Valley, according to an annual report card for the region, which shows that in 1999 for the first time the number of nonwhite residents surpassed whites. The influx of new immigrants is also increasing an income disparity between skilled workers and those in the service industry. C2.
 
Online Holiday Sales Still Guesswork
On Thursday, the Commerce Department will announce estimates of retail sales for December, putting a solid number on the 1999 holiday season. Those wishing to gain a better sense of the e-commerce results, however, will be out of luck. Policy makers, investors and analysts will have to resort to their own crystal ball formulations, cobbled together from shards of statistics and economic assumptions. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C10.

A new holiday survey of seasoned Internet users showed that a majority bought more books online than in standard stores. C13.
 
Web Sites Seek Profit in Politics
A handful of Internet start-ups are hoping to make money in campaign politics, a world traditionally dominated by nonprofit and volunteer groups. But as these commercial political sites strive to cash in on campaign advertising, they are finding it difficult to earn credibility with candidates and the public. C4.
 
A Different Madness Altogether
When John Hummer, co-founding partner of the venture capital firm Hummer Winblad Venture Partners and Princeton's starting center in 1969, created a collegiate competition for Internet business plans, he figured "March Madness" had a nice ring to it. The National Collegiate Athletic Association thought otherwise, contending that the name infringed on a trademark reserved for the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament. So the new name for the Hummer Winblad tournament is the February Madness Start-Up Tournament: Nothin' but the Net. C4.
 
Priceline Expands to Credit Cards
Priceline is set to announce a name-your-own- price credit card system today. But there is only one card issuer -- NextCard -- rather than competing providers as in most of Priceline's other markets. C10.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 11,522.56 up 25.44
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.54% up 0.06
The euro -- $1.0276 up 0.0184
The dollar -- 105.21 yen up 2.94

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); GATEWAY INC (85%); HUMMER WINBLAD VENTURE PARTNERS (83%); ESAT TELECOM GROUP PLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MICROPROCESSORS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); POLITICS (88%); VENTURE CAPITAL (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (85%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (83%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); STARTUPS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); RETAIL SALES (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); VOLUNTEERS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%); BASKETBALL (60%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



250 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Set to Auction Bills This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to today's regular weekly auction of three-and six-month bills and a 10-year Treasury inflation-pegged securities auction on Wednesday.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.22 percent and a six-month bill was 5.41 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
DaimlerChrysler N.A. Holding, $2.5 billion of global debt securities, each consisting of a two-year floater and a five-year fixed rate. A1 by Moody's Investors Service. Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown.
Fannie Mae, $4 billion of debt securities due in 2002 and $4 billion of debt securities due in 2010. Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, $2 billion of global 10-year debt securities. A2/A/---. Merrill Lynch, Salomon Smith Barney and Warburg Dillon Read.
Pefco, $200 million of notes due in 2010. Aaa/AAA/---. Chase Securities.
Republic of Turkey, $1 billion of global debt securities, expected as a 30-year and possibly a 10-year maturity. B-1/B/---. Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter and Salomon Smith Barney.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Fort Worth Independent School District, $132 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Montgomery County, Md., $130 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Broward County, Fla., $400 million of debt securities for resource recovery. Raymond James and Associates.
Escambia Health Facility Authority, Fla., $150 million of debt securities for the Florida Health Care Facility Loan Program. J. P. Morgan Securities.
J.E.A. Florida Water and Sewer, $77 million of revenue bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
New Jersey Transportation Corp., $236 million of certificates of participation. Salomon Smith Barney.
Norwin, Pa., School District, $60 million of general obligation bonds for Westmoreland County. Salomon Smith Barney.
University of New Mexico, $60 million of Subordinate Lien System Improvement revenue bonds. George K. Baum & Company.
Washoe County, Nev., $105 million of debt securities for the Reno/Sparks convention center. Prudential. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (69%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (69%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: RENO, NV, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEBT NOTES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%); HEALTH CARE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



251 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Teacher Crisis

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
It used to be fairly easy to get large numbers of decent teachers for the public schools.
In the 1930's and 40's, young people shaped by the harsh lessons of the Depression were happy to have a steady job that was respectable, even though the pay was low. In the 1950's and 60's, when the baby boomers flooded the schools, women moved en masse into teaching. Few other professional options existed. Women who wanted a career became, for the most part, teachers or nurses. 
 In the late 60's and early 70's, a wave of men went into teaching. These were young, draft-eligible guys anxious for a deferment that would keep them out of Vietnam. Only one out of five remained in the profession for the long haul, but that 20 percent was a significant boost to the ranks of teachers nationwide.
Those more or less natural sources of teachers have long since vanished, and the U.S. now finds itself in the midst of a teacher shortage that is threatening the viability of school systems from coast to coast.
"This shortage of competent teachers is one of the most glaring problems we face right now," said Senator Charles Schumer, who plans to introduce federal legislation that is designed to encourage more young people to become teachers.
"We've entered a whole new type of economy in which ideas are the generators of wealth, of jobs and growth," Mr. Schumer said in an interview last week. "But the No. 1 storm cloud on the horizon is the lack of a young, high-quality, dedicated group of professionals to teach our children."
Referring to the teacher shortage in a speech yesterday, the U.S. secretary of education, Richard Riley, said, "It's gotten so bad that some schools have been forced to put any warm body in front of a classroom."
The shortage will only grow worse over the next decade as tens of thousands of teachers reach retirement age. It is estimated that two million new teachers will have to be hired during that period. But how many first-rate teachers can you reasonably be expected to recruit when the average starting salary is roughly $25,000 a year?
Senator Schumer noted that the greatest need for new teachers is in the areas of math and science. School systems find it particularly difficult to recruit competent men and women in those disciplines because they can so easily command much higher salaries and much better working conditions elsewhere.
"The shortages in math and science are desperate in all but the wealthiest districts," said Mr. Schumer. "So of the 40,000 math or science teachers we needed last year, only 3,000 had the necessary math or science training."
The shortage over all is so acute that many school districts are hiring just about anybody with a college degree. "They get into a classroom," said Mr. Schumer, "and they don't know what to do. They don't know how to teach."
A number of states and local districts are offering enticements to young people to go into teaching. Gov. George Pataki of New York has put together a tuition subsidy plan, and Gov. Gray Davis of California is proposing, among other things, cash bonuses and low-interest home loans.
Senator Schumer's proposal, which he is calling "The Marshall Plan for Public School Teachers," would offer a variety of federal incentives to potential teachers across the country. The key elements are as follows:
* All undergraduate student loans would be forgiven for anyone who becomes certified and teaches for five years.
* The federal government would provide a $5,000-a-year salary supplement for teachers who pass a special test in math and science given by the National Academy of Sciences.
* The federal government would cover 75 percent of the cost of a cadre of master teachers who would serve as trainers and mentors for new teachers.
* Federal employees who retire and go into teaching would be permitted to begin receiving their pensions as soon as they left their federal post. Mr. Schumer said he would encourage local governments and private businesses to adopt a similar policy.
The senator said his program would cost about $15 billion over 10 years.
"People are beginning to see education as an important issue," he said, "but they don't yet see this teacher shortage as a real crisis. It is." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (68%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (68%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (68%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (68%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (68%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SHORTAGES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); RETIREMENT AGE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); BUDGETS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (SEN) CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



252 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Putin Was Once Decorated as a Spy; Few Agree on His Deeds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 9

 BODY:
A spate of reports in the German press suggested this weekend that President Vladimir V. Putin was decorated for his work as a K.G.B. agent in East Germany during the 1980's, and was even expelled from West Germany at one point after being identified as a Soviet spy.
But beyond vague statements from German intelligence spokesmen, there was little to confirm the accounts. American intelligence officials, speaking privately, have said that to their knowledge, Mr. Putin's 15-year career as a K.G.B. agent was not exceptional. 
 Mr. Putin, who became Russia's acting president when President Boris N. Yeltsin resigned on Dec. 31, entered the K.G.B.'s foreign intelligence arm after graduating from Leningrad State University in 1975.
He is said to have left the service in 1990 after spending most of his career in Dresden, then an East German city frequented by Western businesspeople.
Precisely what he did there was of little interest until Mr. Putin's sudden ascension to prime minister last August, and then to the Russian presidency last month. Since then, reports in the Western press have covered the spectrum of possibilities, from theories that he was a drudge who filed reports about East German political leanings to speculation that he ran a vast economic espionage campaign against the West in the Soviet Union's dying days.
The most spectacular of this weekend's German reports, in the newspaper Sachsische Zeitung, the main daily of the Saxony region where Mr. Putin was active as a K.G.B. agent, quoted German intelligence sources as saying that Mr. Putin was expelled from West Germany near the end of the 1970's on suspicion of espionage in Bonn.
The report states that Mr. Putin's cover for his work was a job as a correspondent for Tass, then the official Soviet news agency. It quoted Oleg Kalugin, a former K.G.B. official who has made a name as a critic of the agency, as saying that Mr. Putin's work in East Germany was not particularly successful.
Other reports this weekend claimed that Mr. Putin was a frequent visitor to West Germany in the 1980's, sometimes moving through Checkpoint Charlie, the cold war gateway between East and West Berlin, and sometimes using the name Lieutenant Colonel Adamov or Mr. Adamov.
The newspaper Berliner Zeitung reported that allied intelligence agents photographed Mr. Putin in the mid-1980's outside the posh West Berlin department store KaDeWe, perhaps -- they suspected -- waiting for a rendezvous with a Soviet agent.
Several journals reported that Mr. Putin received an award from East Germany late in his career for his work there, but differed over the nature of the recognition.
Erich Mielke, the former East German security minister, once one of the most feared men in East Germany, told the magazine Focus that Mr. Putin was honored "in recognition of considerable services to the ministry." But the weekly Der Spiegel called the award a routine commendation. And a spokesman for the Gauck Commission, a German office poring over records of the old East German spy apparatus, Stasi, said the award was "not entirely routine," but not all that important, either.
Missing in all this was what Mr. Putin did to earn the honor.
A spokeswoman for Germany's Federal Intelligence Service said Mr. Putin had held an "important post" for the K.G.B. in Dresden from 1984 to 1990, but added: "It's difficult to say exactly what he did."
One of the few firsthand reports on Mr. Putin's work, in today's issue of the newspaper Welt am Sonntag, suggests that Mr. Putin was a mid-level K.G.B. agent performing fairly routine duties.
The newspaper quoted a former Stasi officer who worked with Mr. Putin, Gunther Kohler, as saying that Mr. Putin and his family lived in a two-and-one-half-room apartment in Dresden, a 10-minute walk from his office, and that he frequently made secret visits to West Germany.
Mr. Kohler said Mr. Putin, who called himself Adamov, spoke excellent German -- so well, in fact, that he could imitate German dialects. Unlike many Russian agents posted there, he appeared to like Germans and especially admired German discipline.
Mr. Putin never drank alcohol, enjoyed fitness training, especially judo, frequently socialized with his neighbors, most of them Stasi employees, and was said to be a strong supporter of economic and social reforms then proposed by the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
Some reports have suggested that Mr. Putin not only tried to recruit Western businessmen and East Germans traveling to the West, but also kept a book on East Germans who supported economic reform.
East Germany's leaders were ferocious critics of Mr. Gorbachev's policy of openness and restructuring of Soviet society, and the Kremlin was said to have kept a register of pro-reform Germans who could take over the government in the event of a putsch.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: This photograph of Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's acting president, wearing a judo outfit appears on the Russian government's Web site. (Russian government photograph) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: KGB (SOVIET SECURITY POLICE) K G B (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: KGB (SOVIET SECURITY POLICE) K G B (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; GERMANY; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ESPIONAGE (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V VLADIMIR PUTIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



253 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Tug-of-War on Budget Threatens California Governor's Near-Perfect Record

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 9

 BODY:
The Los Angeles Times headline seemed almost a parody, a "Saturday Night Live" spoof come to life: "Davis Hails First Year in Office as Total Success." But in fact, for Gov. Gray Davis of California, much of the last year has been a string of media superlatives, legislative achievements, fiscal luck, political popularity and, yes, success.
He won new reading programs for students and training for teachers, exit exams for high school graduates and a plan to reward schools for improved performance. He signed a half-dozen gun control bills, including a toughened ban on assault weapons, a ban on cheap handguns, a requirement for trigger locks on new handguns and a limit of one handgun purchase a month. He approved a package of measures granting patients in health maintenance organizations new rights to contest decisions on care. 
 He even raised a record $8 million in campaign contributions in the eight months after taking office, building a war chest aimed at deterring any serious challenge to his re-election in 2002. In all, not bad for a 57-year-old cautious but ambitious career politician who was long scorned as the dullest, most unprepossessing player in the California political pack.
"I've been underestimated my whole life, and I don't want it to change," Mr. Davis said with a self-mocking chuckle in an interview in his office here late last week. "It's my greatest strength. You know, this whole business is exceeding expectations."
Now the expectations are higher. When Mr. Davis proposes his second state budget on Monday, the news will still be good: An expected $3 billion surplus in the roughly $65 billion budget will mean more money for education, including college loans, bonuses and fellowships for teachers, more summer-school sessions for under-performing students and a tenfold increase, to 70,000, in the number of teachers to be given extra training in reading, algebra and other skills. In all, aides say, he will propose spending about $257 million more on education than required by law, more than twice the level of extra spending he proposed last year.
But a State Legislature that has learned to take Mr. Davis's pledge of moderation seriously will be demanding far more on a host of fronts. Democrats, who control both chambers, want more spending on mental health and the homeless, while Republicans want to halve tuition at the University of California and California State University systems. The powerful teachers' union, which backed Mr. Davis strongly, is sponsoring a fall ballot measure aimed at raising the state's per pupil spending, which now lags in the bottom third, to the national average at a cost of nearly $5 billion.
Mr. Davis said he would oppose that measure because it would require a tax increase, which would break his campaign vow "to do my level best within the resources that the economy provides." He has also vowed to veto every new gun control measure that comes before him until those passed last year have had some time to be tested. "I'm vetoing those bills," the governor said. "They're wonderful bills, but we've done enough for this year. Let's wait until the prosecutors and the police come back to us," and are prepared to deal with more.
The smart money in Sacramento predicts some rough sailing ahead.
"Come on, he's had such a good first year, it's going to be tough," said Richard Ross, a veteran Democratic political consultant who is friendly to Mr. Davis but does not work for him. "Listen, repeating is tough. I'm sure he's quite aware of it, and he's seeing now that it's almost harder to govern in times of plenty. The list of demands will always exceed the results."
The shrewdest of Mr. Davis's liberal legislative scourges is the leader of the State Senate, John Burton of San Francisco, who has called for a major effort to address the problems of the mentally ill who were deinstitutionalized and swelled the homeless population in cities like his. Asked to comment on Mr. Davis's first year the other day, Mr. Burton puckishly proposed: "Why don't you just rewrite Time?" referring to the new magazine's depiction of Mr. Davis last fall as "The Most Fearless Governor in America," a headline that prompted gales of derision in the capital, where Mr. Davis stays close to the 50-yard line on almost every issue.
"I've known the guy since 1972," Mr. Burton said, "so I don't get disappointed and I don't get upset. He is what he is, and I am what I am and it's no big deal to me. I think last year there was some feeling around, but there was a tremendous willingness and desire on our part to help him be successful. I think this year will be a little bit different. He'll have his point of view, we'll have ours, and we'll try to work it out."
Mr. Davis himself acknowledged some rocky moments with his legislative colleagues, as in a celebrated eruption last summer when the governor, frustrated that legislators were sending him a raft of health care bills that might be costly or contradictory, declared, "Their job is to implement my vision." For their part, legislative leaders groused that Mr. Davis, famously disciplined in the details of fund-raising and electioneering, had been slow to fill appointive posts and occasionally seemed under-prepared in policy discussions.
But no one has accused Mr. Davis, a former lieutenant governor, controller, assemblyman and the first Democrat to lead the state in 16 years, of not doing his political homework. Indeed, he and his chief political adviser, Garry South, have what amounts to a unified field theory of California politics, which holds that the only way to win and govern successfully statewide is as a resolute moderate, able to win support not only in the coastal urban centers but in the rapidly growing inland suburbs and the Central Valley.
Because Mr. Davis cut his political teeth as chief of staff to former Gov. Jerry Brown, the last Democrat to lead California, politicians in both parties assumed that his moderate stance in last year's campaign was largely tactical, a page from the playbooks of President Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain. In fact, Mr. South notes, Mr. Davis has always been hard to pigeonhole, the only Democrat in a staunchly Republican family, who was inspired to enter politics after serving as an Army captain in Vietnam and seeing how the war was being fought disproportionately by minorities and the poor.
"Of all the candidates I have ever worked with, Gray is the most anomalous blend of conservative beliefs and progressive instincts," Mr. South said. "He's a longtime vociferous supporter of the death penalty. He was the only statewide Democratic elected official in California in 1996 to support Clinton's signing of the welfare bill. At the same time, he's a strong supporter of workers' rights to organize, of health and safety regulations, with an almost unequaled record on environmental protection."
Mr. Davis himself said simply: "There's nothing government can do to substitute for a growing economy. Twenty-five, 30 years ago I might have thought differently, but now I'm convinced that government has to do a few things and do them well." Mr. Davis said he thought much of the recent federal devolution of power to the states had worked well, especially in areas like welfare, but he has continued to press hard, for example, for more federal money to finance problems like jailing illegal immigrants who commit crimes.
But Mr. Davis also said "it would take me about an hour," to simply list California's biggest future needs. Asked what changes in the economy, or what unanticipated problems might cause him to rethink his opposition to any tax increase, the governor said: "I don't want to go down that road. What I tell people today is that we're experiencing the best economy known in the history of man, and the problems that I inherited, almost across the board, took 25 or 30 years to develop and we can't expect to solve them in one year."
Given California's size, and his success, Mr. Davis's name inevitably surfaces as a potential vice-presidential candidate, but he pledges to serve out his term and expects to run for another. "This is not just any state," he said. "This is the seventh largest economy in the world, and I'm not going to trade that in for the job of adviser, and that's what the vice president is." Few doubt that Mr. Davis would prefer to wait for a potential run at the presidency itself.
For the moment, Mr. Davis seems to be savoring the rewards of his gradualism.
"The times demanded that he basically leave well enough alone, and any changes he was going to make be incremental," said State Senator Jim Brulte of Rancho Cucamonga, one of the capital's chief Republican strategists, who praised the governor for incorporating about seven major Republican proposals into his coming budget. "And clearly that's his style, so that's a good match for California. The first rule of a physician is 'Do no harm,' and I think Gray Davis has adopted that as a political axiom, too."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "This whole business is exceeding expectations," said Gov. Gray Davis of California. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT FIREARMS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); POLITICS (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); BALLOTS (71%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); REFERENDUMS (67%); TRENDS (65%); TAX LAW (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) GRAY DAVIS (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



254 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1863 words

HEADLINE: Big Trouble for Tiny New York Oil Industry

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: BOLIVAR, N.Y.

 BODY:
If they ever made a movie about the oil producers of New York State, they would have to call it "Midget."
 Some 135 years after the state's first marketable oil for sale started flowing from a hole near here in western New York, the state's producers are trying to suck the last drops from wells producing on average a quarter of a barrel a day.
Now, the few hundred people still employed in one of the state's more unlikely industries face a threat that they say could bring the long history of New York state oil production to an end. State environmental authorities are requiring them to spend thousands of dollars a well plugging holes that in many cases have been abandoned for decades. 
 The oil producers' admitted failure to plug these holes as they went, and as the laws have long required, has turned tap water in some homes into a black, odoriferous ooze. At least one homeowner can demonstrate the pollution at his kitchen sink by igniting his water with a pocket lighter.
The result is a collision between the heritage of the oil industry's earliest days and the real-life environmental consequences in the present. The weary survivors of a local industry with its roots in the era of John D. Rockefeller see it as yet another setback in their struggle to hang on.
"We want to assure there will be an oil and gas industry for our children," said Paul Plants, president of the New York State Oil Producers Association and owner of the Plants and Goodwin oil company. "About the only thing we have going for us is our history."
It would be tempting to say that New York State's oil and gas industry is as dead as the horse and buggy. In fact, it is deader. Production peaked in 1882. Now, by 4:31 a.m. on Jan. 1, Texas produces about as much as New York does all year. In 1998, exactly one new oil well was drilled in the state.
Bolivar (rhymes with Oliver), population about 2,500, still has a Pioneer Oil Museum, open by appointment, to commemorate its boom town past. But over recent decades, the area has become so depressed that Robert F. Kennedy, when he was one of the state's United States senators, had it declared part of Appalachia, eligible for the aid extended to some of the nation's poorest rural counties.
 Here, New York, on the tattered edge of the world's first oil patch, is a mere appendage to Pennsylvania and the oil-bearing late Devonian sandstone underlying the Allegheny foothills on both sides of the state line. A year after the world's first oil well was drilled in 1859 at Titusville, Pa., in the northwest corner of that state, drilling began nearby in New York, with commercial sales five years later. The general area is described hereabouts as the Southern Tier, huddling along the Pennsylvania border nearly two hours from Buffalo on winding roads.
Oil producers say their business became so obscure that during the mid-1980's, when Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan spoke on a bill to tax the windfall profits that high prices had given major oil companies, he stated that New York, after all, produced no oil. About the only concern state officials have heard from environmentalists has been an objection to possible drilling for natural gas in a state park.
So this region persists as a northern version of the Confederacy: poor but proud of a distant, glorious past. Its Victorian mansions still stand, but with paint peeling from the lacy carpentry. Many families have been in the oil business here for generations, but doubt they will be in it for generations more. They cheer the recent rise in prices, but say it has not lasted nearly long enough to change their fortunes.
At dawn in the corrugated steel shed that serves as his company's office, garage, changing room and machine shop, Mr. Plants huddles with a clutch of workers, including his son, Stephen. Mr. Plants, at age 62 still as rugged as the rocky local terrain, has all his oil properties in New York but his headquarters just over the state line, in Shinglehouse, Pa.
As slight as New York's oil output may be, Mr. Plants says that a national issue is at stake: helping domestic oil producers maintain what is left of the nation's energy independence. "The United States is absolutely addicted to foreign oil," Mr. Plants said. "But here, we're being viewed as a dying industry."
Mr. Plants, in his Ford pickup, was by then rumbling down a rough dirt road to a scene out of the 1930's, before the familiar electric pump jacks began bobbing. In a shed, a huge, spoked steel wheel, powered by natural gas produced along with the oil, rotates like a merry-go-round, pulling on cables radiating out around the hillside that in turn work the pumps down in the holes. Valves, gears and pistons clank, hiss and pop, evoking a place down much deeper than the wells.
Obsolete? No more than the region's family farms, Mr. Plants said, adding: "Are cows an environmental threat? They walk in streams, they belch, they give off methane, so let's get rid of them."
For James H. Plyler II, 29, and Heather S. Gunn, 22, oil poses more of an environmental threat than indecorous cows. Early in 1999, as they looked over a two-bedroom home with peeling vinyl siding near Wellsville, just east of Bolivar, on a narrow mountain road convenient mostly to hunting clubs, they noticed that the water was very dark.
Hiring no inspector, they say they were assured that it was just a result of the house's having been vacant for months after the woman who lived there had moved to a nursing home.
 After putting down about 10 percent on this $35,000 house, they moved in on May 16, ran the faucets for hours and saw no improvement. Checking their water well, they saw that the pump and the wires leading to it were coated with oil.
For three months, they cooked and bathed with water from a nearby spring, which appeared clean, or at least cleaner. They called lawyers, their bankers, their real estate agency and the local Health Department, which they say had certified the quality of their water. An official there, they said, commiserated, saying she had grown up with the same problem.
 Mr. Plyler, a machinist, was finally advised by a supervisor to call the Department of Environmental Conservation. The state agent came out, took pictures and found out who owned the oil well just a few dozen paces from the water well.
"I didn't know there were this many oil wells in New York State," Mr. Plyler said. "They must all be in my backyard."
 Mr. Plyler and Ms. Gunn installed a $5,000 filtration system, plus clean new water lines, a holding tank and a hot water tank. Filters expected to last more than three months were worn out in one.
 They, and their lawyer, want Timothy Quaintance, the investor who controls the oil rights, at least to help cover their costs. Mr. Quaintance, having plugged four wells near the Plyler home in 1999, said that he had no further responsibility since he neither drilled the wells nor produced oil from them.
"I had nothing to do with this whole thing," he said.
Not until 1974 did the state start backing up its rules for plugging abandoned oil wells by requiring owners to set aside the necessary cash or bonds. But most of the state's wells date from long before.
As oil prices fell through most of the last decade, well abandonment, and state enforcement, increased. To cover the costs of plugging the wells, the state has sued some oil producers for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Some have simply gone out of business, fled or let matters drag on so long that they became an issue for their heirs. Others say they lack the money to comply.
The oil producers are negotiating with the state over tighter rules, to clean up both current production and past messes. They say that $1 million in fees they paid to help plug wells vanished in the early 1990's into the state's general fund.
 "Things here are much different than in Texas and Oklahoma," Mr. Plants says. He is alluding not only to the mythology captured by movies like "Giant," but also to the New York oil industry's failure to wield the kind of political influence common in the Southwest.
As Gregory H. Sovas, director of the minerals division at the State Department of Environmental Conservation, put it, "I'm not there to be a shill for the industry."
Tales of economic desperation or industry lore leave him unmoved. "I could give you all the arguments, because I've heard them," he said. "But if you took money out of the ground, now you've got to pay the costs."
Jack Dahl, regional manager for the minerals division, has gone, like his bosses in Albany, to view Mr. Plants's operation. "They could make more money selling tickets to see that big wheel," Mr. Dahl said from behind his steel desk.
After oil drilling all but ceased in 1998, higher oil prices, above $20 a barrel nationally, raised the number of new wells to 16 in 1999 through the early autumn. About 3,000 oil wells are now active, typically generating less than $2,000 in annual revenue each.
At the same time, a minor boom in natural gas is taking place in the far western corner of the state, where producers bid $3 million in 1999 for drilling rights.
Of 45,000 wells drilled through the 1940's, by the state's best guess, only 11,000 have been found. They are in front yards and backyards, beside a golf course, in the woods, by trout streams, in a school parking lot. Whoever owns the mineral rights, which are sold or leased separately from the land, is responsible for plugging dormant wells that the owner might not even have known about.
The oil men, fearing state enforcement, often do not report the inactive wells they do know about, state officials say. Hunters and homeowners, on discovering those wells bubbling or leaking in the woods or tall grass, often do.
Among the oilmen Mr. Dahl has won court judgments against is William Hogan. Both of Mr. Hogan's grandfathers went into the oil business in the early 1870's. All that is left are five oil wells that together produce 100 barrels a month, "and that's an exaggeration," Mr. Hogan adds. He also has 100 or so dormant wells, and a $179,000 fine for failing to plug them.
As a last living link to the origins of the state's oil industry, he is stooped at age 94 but still quite capable of answering the door to his whitewashed bungalow. "Tell them I'm living off Social Security," he said. He supposes the state will go after his heirs instead of him, saying, "They're waiting for me to die."
Mr. Plyler and Ms. Gunn, in what amounts to a different neighborhood of limbo, have meanwhile delayed plans for expanding their home to four bedrooms. Even if they wanted to sell, they say, they would run into the refusal of banks to grant a mortgage on property now known to have environmental hazards.
In the darkness in front of his house, Mr. Plyler pointed to the hulking outlines of the construction equipment that the wells' owner was using to plug them.
"We're going to be stuck with this house the rest of our lives," Mr. Plyler said. Looking down at the earth that had yielded him nothing but trouble, he shook his head and added, "Oil should be produced overseas."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Paul Plants, shown with an aging pump in an oil field in Allentown, N.Y., a national issue is at stake: maintaining energy independence. (Don Heupel for The New York Times)(pg. B4); In 1897 oil was a major industry in Allegany County N.Y. (Pioneer Oil Museum Bolivar N.Y.)(pg. A1)
 
Map of New York shows location of Bollvar: Oil producers in western New York are struggling to hang on. (pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ALLEGANY COUNTY (NY); BOLIVAR (NY); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WATER OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (95%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); COUNTIES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



255 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: McCain's Tax Ideas Defy Conventional G.O.P. Wisdom

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
After decades in which Republican presidential candidates have reflexively promoted tax cuts as the key to prosperity and electoral success, Senator John McCain of Arizona is betting that there is a more potent issue this time around: Social Security.
His strategy casts Mr. McCain in a role that President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore have played to the advantage of Democrats: suggesting that too big a tax cut would be fiscally irresponsible, disproportionately benefit the wealthy and endanger efforts to shore up Social Security before the vast baby boom generation retires. And it has set off a clash with Mr. McCain's chief Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, over whether tax cuts have lost their punch as a political issue, especially when the economy is so strong. 
 For the last few weeks, Mr. McCain has sought to highlight the contrast between his plan, which would devote the bulk of projected federal budget surpluses to overhauling the retirement system, and the big tax-cut proposal by Mr. Bush, the Republican front-runner.
It is a contrast that Mr. Bush has been equally happy to emphasize. The result is a developing showdown between Mr. Bush's adherence to a venerable Reaganesque approach of winning over the conservative Republican base with a traditional tax-cutting message and Mr. McCain's belief that voters are more worried about their long-term economic security than about having a lower tax bill today.
Questioning the wisdom of big tax cuts holds considerable risks for Mr. McCain as he tries to defeat Mr. Bush in New Hampshire, a state where Republicans are ardent tax cutters. And Mr. McCain's strategy in effect wipes out one of Mr. Bush's greatest vulnerabilities in the primaries: the suspicion among some conservatives that like President Bush, who broke a pledge not to raise taxes, the Texas governor is more moderate than he talks on fiscal issues.
"McCain has allowed Bush to get to the right of him on fiscal and tax policy," said Stephen Moore, director of fiscal policy studies at the Cato Institute, a conservative research organization. "McCain has quite irresponsibly echoed Clinton's objections to tax cuts in a way that could come back to haunt the Republicans in the general election."
Yet some analysts say Mr. McCain may be astutely tapping into a shift in national priorities. They say voters are less focused than in earlier years on improving their current economic condition at a time when jobs are plentiful and incomes are rising, and are increasingly convinced that the benefits of the current prosperity should be used to address tomorrow's problems.
"At this point we seem to have moved from irrational exuberance to rational responsibility, where tax cuts don't resonate as strongly as they once did," said David C. John, a policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group. "Part of it is that in a time of prosperity the tax bill doesn't hit as hard. But people also seem to have a real recognition that Social Security is in trouble and that we should make hay while the sun is shining."
Conceding that their efforts to enact a big tax cut over the last few years have gone nowhere, Republican leaders in the House this week said they would concentrate on passing a number of smaller tax bills. And most polls on the issue in the last year have found Social Security consistently outranking tax cuts as a priority among voters.
Mr. McCain is by no means forswearing tax cuts. He plans to set out a detailed proposal on Tuesday that his advisers said would benefit lower- and middle-income taxpayers.
The advisers said the plan would expand the current 15 percent bracket to higher income levels, reduce the so-called marriage penalty paid by many two-income couples, provide tax breaks for savings and expand the child credit. Like Mr. Bush's plan, they said, Mr. McCain's would provide substantial benefits to the lower middle class.
For example, they said, Mr. McCain's proposal would create a new type of savings account, patterned after the Individual Retirement Account, that would give the greatest benefit to people in the lowest income tax bracket of 15 percent. Contributions up to $3,000 per taxpayer would be tax-deductible, with any gains subject to ordinary income tax as long as the money remains in the account for at least one year.
Mr. McCain will also propose expanded education and retirement savings plans.
Still, his proposal is likely to be no more than half as large as Mr. Bush's plan, which the Bush campaign values at $483 billion over five years. And rather than pay for his entire tax cut out of the surplus, Mr. McCain plans to finance it in part by closing corporate tax loopholes.
"We believe," said Dan Schnur, Mr. McCain's communications director, "that a significant tax cut coupled with a Social Security solution is much more efficient from both a policy and a political standpoint than a huge tax cut that doesn't address Social Security at all."
Mr. Bush has repeatedly attacked Mr. McCain over the last week for not supporting a bigger tax cut, suggesting that Mr. McCain sounds more like Vice President Gore than a Republican when it comes to tax cuts. And he has asserted that unless the money is kept out of Washington by cutting taxes, politicians will inevitably spend it.
"Governor Bush simply rejects the zero-sum mentality that says you can't both save Social Security and cut taxes," said Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman.
In their debate on Friday, the two leading Republicans sparred again on fiscal issues.
Mr. McCain called it "fiscally irresponsible to promise a huge tax cut that is based on a surplus that we may not have."
Mr. Bush said the two had "a fundamental disagreement," telling Mr. McCain that the surplus "will go to Washington under your idea, and under my idea it goes into people's pockets."
The most recent official projections are for the surplus to total $3 trillion over the next decade, of which $2 trillion would come from excess Social Security revenue. The surpluses could evaporate if the economy turns down or if Congress spends at higher rates than now assumed. But preliminary estimates suggest that updated projections scheduled to be released by the White House and the Congressional Budget Office in the next few weeks could give the candidates as much as $800 billion more to play with.
Like Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain has pledged to reserve the $2 trillion Social Security surplus to shore up the retirement system. Like Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain says the best way to do so is to create a system of private accounts within Social Security that would allow workers to invest part of their payroll taxes in stocks and bonds.
But Mr. McCain has gone beyond Mr. Bush in proposing to use 62 percent of the non-Social Security surplus, more than $600 billion in the next decade under current projections, to help finance the private accounts.
Mr. McCain's advisers said his plan would go much farther in assuring Social Security's long-term solvency than Mr. Bush's plan, although they declined to provide any details to support their assertion.
In the long run, the real debate over Social Security may not be the differences between Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush over how extensive a system of private investment accounts should be established. Instead, it is far more likely to be between the general Republican position in favor of privatization and the insistence of most Democrats that individuals not be exposed to the risks of investing in the markets.
The debate could be especially complicated if the market continues the volatile seesaw pattern that left even the most seasoned investors off balance over the last week.
"When it comes right down to it, the stock market could be much more volatile," said Mr. John. "This is going to point out to people that there's an element of risk in life."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas has been happy to emphasize the contrast between his ideas about tax cuts and Senator John McCain's. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



256 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News;
Executive With a Passion for Ideas: Harold Oscar Levy

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
For years, Harold O. Levy, a corporate lawyer with a seat on the State Board of Regents, has regularly shared his thoughts on education, sometimes on a daily basis, with a who's who of New York City's civic, education and business leaders.
The leaders, whom he contacts by fax or with quick, breezy calls from his cell phone, are less public figures than consummate insiders, much like Mr. Levy himself. And they have grown fondly accustomed to being his sounding boards for a wide range of ideas, like his drive to eliminate coal-burning furnaces in school buildings and to increase the city's share of state money for schools. 
 "He has no airs; he knows how to deal with people at all levels," said Lisa Belzberg, the organizer of the school system's Principal for a Day program and one of the people on Mr. Levy's fax list. "I think that's important right now. It's a talent."
His fierce desire to get his message across paid off yesterday: Mr. Levy, an executive at Citigroup and a virtual unknown to the public and even to many elected officials, was chosen for interim schools chancellor by a politically divided Board of Education in a 4-to-3 vote.
Mr. Levy was supported by the influential teachers' union and was opposed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has jockeyed with schools chancellors for control over the city's vast public education system.
Mr. Levy said last night that he did not want to comment on his appointment or his plans for the school system until the state education commissioner, Richard P. Mills, with whom he has worked closely as a Regent, decided whether to grant the waiver required for someone without the formal credentials to serve as chancellor.
Educators and colleagues said that Mr. Levy's work with the Regents and his corporate background suggested that he would focus on advocating more money for the schools, which he has contended are underfinanced and do a poor job of serving impoverished and minority students, and on improving the condition of aging and decrepit school buildings.
His friends and supporters say that if there is one trait that characterizes Mr. Levy, it is his independence. "I would not call him a captive of anybody," said Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers. "There are some people in this world that try to make decisions based upon the merits."
The mayor's allies have contended that Mr. Levy is beholden to Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the State Assembly who recommended him for a seat on the Regents in March 1997, but Ms. Belzberg said that if Mr. Levy was political, it was "with a small p."
She added, "He's very able to play when he needs to in order to get the right thing, and when I say right, I don't mean for Harold."
Mr. Levy, 47, lives in Morningside Heights, near Columbia University, with his wife, Patricia Sapinsley, an architect, and their children, Hannah, 8, and Noah, 6, who attend the Dalton School. He is a frequent visitor to local bookstores. His father, Hugo, owned a hardware store in the Bronx, where his mother, Alice, also worked. Mr. Levy grew up in Washington Heights, attending Public School 189 and Junior High School 52. He showed early political promise when he was elected president of the Student Organization at the Bronx High School of Science, and he graduated in 1970.
He has traced his interest in education to his own undergraduate days at Cornell University, where he majored in industrial and labor relations and wrote his thesis on collective bargaining in higher education. He received a law degree from Cornell in 1979, and he toyed with the idea of becoming a professor after earning a master's degree first class, given to only about 1 percent of the students at Oxford, in 1981 from the university's School of Politics, Philosophy and Economics.
He worked at Salomon and Travelers. In his current post as director of global compliance for Citigroup, he makes sure that branches of the company throughout the world follow local laws and regulations.
In education, Mr. Levy left his biggest mark as head of a commission appointed in 1995 by Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines to examine school buildings. His report advocated what he called a Marshall Plan to reverse years of deferred maintenance.
But the biggest challenges lie ahead. Although Chancellor Rudy Crew has been ousted, two of his closest deputies are still running the system, and Mr. Levy, should he be granted the necessary waiver from Mr. Mills, must figure out how to work with them. In the next five or six months, before a permanent chancellor is appointed, Mr. Levy must negotiate budget issues and recruit qualified teachers.
He must also provide the leadership to navigate two minefields left behind by Dr. Crew: a plan to send as many as 360,000 failing students to summer school, and the ratification, which is far from assured, of a proposed contract that would end lifetime job guarantees for principals.
Even his closest friends were amazed that he wanted to be interim chancellor. "He didn't come into this like an ingenue," said Beth Lief, president of New Visions for Public Schools, a nonprofit education group. "He knows the mountain that has to be climbed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (David Jennings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); 

PERSON: HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA; LEVY, HAROLD O RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



257 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Accounts

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliot 

 BODY:

* Excite@Home, Redwood City, Calif., an Internet company that combines online content and navigational services, to Gillespie, Lawrenceville, N.J., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies., to handle its direct marketing, which had been at Lowe Fox Pavlika, part of the Lowe Group unit of Interpublic. Billings were estimated at $5 million.
* Rug Doctor, Plano, Tex., a provider of carpet cleaning products and rental machines, to Levenson & Hill, Dallas, to handle its account, which had been inactive. Billings were estimated at more than $2 million.
* Roper Starch Worldwide, New York, a research company, to Heitner Weiss, New York, to handle its first account. Billings were estimated at $1 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); TEXAS, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (94%); GFK AG (58%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); TEXAS, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES INTERNET & WWW (88%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (87%); DIRECT MARKETING (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



258 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Big Tobacco's Minority Allies

 BODY:

To the Editor:
That tobacco companies are currying favor with minority communities is neither new nor surprising (news article, Jan. 4). Yet the backing of tobacco interests by some black and Hispanic New York State lawmakers and their tacit promotion of cigarette smoking are shameful. 
 Black Americans suffer higher rates of smoking-related diseases than whites. In New York State, the prevalence of smoking among Hispanic adults surpasses that of whites and blacks. If minority politicians were truly concerned about the welfare of the communities they represent, they would not sacrifice the health of their constituents for short-term economic and political gains.
 
ALICIA M. LUKACHKO
New York, Jan. 4, 2000
 
The writer is assistant director of public health, American Council on Science and Health.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SCIENCE AND HEALTH AMERICAN COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES INC (55%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SCIENCE & HEALTH (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SCIENCE & HEALTH (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SCIENCE AND HEALTH AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SCIENCE & HEALTH (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON SCIENCE & HEALTH (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS SMOKING (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (88%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (88%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); 

PERSON: LUKACHKO, ALICIA M ALICIA M LUKACHKO NEW YORK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000



259 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: Conservationists Win Battles but Fear War Is Lost

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
The peregrine falcon, California condor, American alligator and bald eagle pull back from the brink of extinction. Governments and conservation groups cut deals with private landowners -- and buy more and more land outright -- in a drive to save the natural landscape or at least preserve its essence. Once-putrid rivers and streams are restored to health. Vanished ecosystems are reassembled and brought back to life. Keystone predators like wolves are restored to the wild.
The list of victories in conservationists' never-ending struggle to keep the modern human economy from destroying and degrading the natural world grows longer all the time. But while green forces are winning battles and have launched more than a few counterattacks, many of their generals and strategists say the war is being lost. 
 Despite the gains, for instance, humans continue to appropriate an ever-growing proportion of the wild landscape to their use. Largely because of this, wild species are going extinct at 100 to 1,000 times the natural "background" rate. One in eight plant species is rated as imperiled. By some analyses, one in three could be extinct or doomed to extinction in 50 years. Since plants form the very matrix of terrestrial ecosystems, the ripple effect on other organisms would be substantial.
"Things are getting worse faster than they're getting better," Dr. Deborah Jensen, the chief scientist of the Nature Conservancy, told an audience that gathered in Madison, Wis., to honor the ecologist Aldo Leopold in October. There is "not much cause for optimism," she said.
Conversations with many of her colleagues in government, academia and the trenches of conservation over the last few months make it clear that her view is widely shared. And a recent report by the United Nations Environment Program concluded that world environmental gains had been overtaken by population growth and economic expansion.
In the face of these grim assessments, two different philosophies have lately emerged to compete for strategic and intellectual dominance of the conservation movement as the world enters what experts generally believe will be the make-or-break decades of the struggle. The two views appear to be taking firm root, and it remains to be seen whether they will reinforce or work against each other.
One philosophy sees the struggle as a great crusade or, as Dr. Jensen called it, "a grand cause." Conservationists who embrace this view rely less on practical and scientific justifications to rally support and instead are more often casting their objective as nothing less than the saving of Creation, with a capital C. In this, they are appealing to the moral sense of people, including the religiously devout, in hope of galvanizing a wider spectrum of supporters.
The second emergent philosophy is more pragmatic. It sees the key to success as an ability to come to terms within the global economy that is mostly responsible for escalating degradation and destruction of the natural world. In this view, only down-to-earth deals with this juggernaut can save nature: give the human economy part of what it wants from nature in exchange for a guarantee that the rest will not be disturbed.
These two approaches do not always jibe. Take Southern California, where one of the nation's most ambitious conservation projects -- a sweeping attempt to save much of what is left of the species-rich Los Angeles-to-Mexico landscape -- is based on long-term land trade-offs between developers and conservationists.
Now, though, some conservationists wonder why there should be any compromise when development has already destroyed 90 percent of the coastal ecosystem. Why not just stand firm and wield any appropriate laws to halt further landscape destruction? Because that approach is unworkable, the deal makers say. It is better to negotiate so that at least some substantial slice of the landscape, containing something close to a full panoply of wild species, can be preserved.
The general task facing conservationists is truly daunting, and by now well known.
In the United States, once-vast ecosystems that covered entire regions of the nation -- the longleaf pine forests of the Southeast, for instance, and the prairies and savannas of the Midwest -- are slivers of their former selves. Even as some wetlands are restored, others are being destroyed at a rate that means a continuing net loss. Urban sprawl accelerated from 1992 to 1997, according to the Department of Agriculture, more than doubling the rate of the preceding decade.
According to some biologists, the most intractable threat to the future of many species is the global economy's redistribution of plant and animal species on a wide scale. Sometimes this is beneficial, the experts say, but hardy invaders tend to take over the habitats of vulnerable local species that cannot make it elsewhere. The upshot is reduced biological diversity, a more homogenized version of nature.
Of all the ways in which humans disturb the natural world, this comes closest to being irreversible. Many scientists despair of ever putting the genie back in the bottle. The global interchange of species is "so vast and complex, we're hardly able to comprehend it," Dr. Mike Wingfield, a South African expert on forests, told an audience at the International Botanical Congress last summer in St. Louis.
In other instances, though, nature tends to spring back once the cause of disturbance is removed. Depleted fish populations recover once fishing stops. Forests and grasslands retake abandoned farmland, especially when given a helping hand by restorationists. Some ecosystems return to health when cleansing processes like fire, on which they depend, are restored. Rivers tend to cleanse themselves once pollutants are no longer dumped in.
That is what keeps conservationists from total despair; if people can be persuaded to stop interfering with natural processes, the situation will eventually correct itself to some degree. The problem is to get through the 21st century, and especially the next 50 years. But according to one analysis, from one-third to half of the earth's surface has been transformed by human activity, and as the population grows, the trend appears sure to continue: the world's population, now about 6 billion people, is expected to rocket to 9.5 billion by 2050, then grow more slowly before stabilizing at nearly 11 billion around 2200.
Few if any scientists go so far as to say that what people know as the natural world will simply disappear, to be superseded by some high-tech virtual reality. But it is widely considered a sure bet that many species will vanish. Many kinds of ecosystems could disappear from the earth. Many genetic resources could be lost, including some that might offer the promise of lifesaving medicines and improved food production.
The shape and texture of nature will surely change, and probably not for the better: it is likely to become simpler, poorer, less interesting and perhaps less stable ecologically.
Many conservationists believe their basic task over the next few decades is to slow this process and to save as many of the pieces of nature as possible -- that is, as many species, in their natural settings -- so that once the great fever of human population expansion has broken, there will be building blocks for a large-scale restoration.
But in developing countries, where the population crush will be worst, the situation may be close to hopeless, especially in the tropics, where most species live. Dr. John Terborgh of Duke University, an expert on tropical conservation, says efforts to save nature in some parts of the world "are just doomed to fail."
In his 1999 book, "Requiem for Nature" (Island Press/Shearwater), Dr. Terborgh wrote that nature "cannot long survive" a combination of inadequate nature parks, unstable societies and faltering institutions that plagues many developing countries. "We have a long way to go before anyone can feel comfortable about the future of nature," he wrote.
The United States is in a better position, he says.
But about three-quarters of the land in the United States is in private hands, and therefore vulnerable to the economic juggernaut. Given the steady expansion of the economy and the steady advance of development, some experts have raised questions about whether growth and conservation can be responsibly balanced.
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, who has been a chief advocate of making deals to achieve such a balance, as in Southern California, staunchly defends the approach. "There is no way you can put everything off-limits" in nature, he said. The goal then becomes to conduct human activity "in a way that is mostly compatible with the ecosystem." Which means making hard-headed trade-offs.
Despite the belief of others that the conservation war is being lost at the moment, Mr. Babbitt describes himself as "an optimist who says we cannot accept the possibility of defeat."
Dr. E.O. Wilson, the Harvard University biologist, is also hopeful. First, he says, the richest assemblages of species inhabit a relatively small part of the land, meaning that conservation efforts can be effectively focused on a relatively few biological hot spots. Second, he says, the conservation movement has lately taken on a new zeal in keeping with its increasingly expressed moral objective of saving creation.
This is a potentially powerful appeal, many conservationists believe, one capable of engaging people's close-to-home desire to bequeath a healthy world to their children. "And you can give the next generation of young people something worth fighting for," Dr. Wilson said.
Whether the impulse to save creation and the gritty deal-making approach to conservation can be fused into an ultimately winning combination may become clear in the early decades of the new millennium.
This generation's reputation in history may depend partly on the outcome if Jamie Rappaport Clark, director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, is right in saying:
"We're going to be remembered for what we've left of the land rather than what we've built on it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nature Under Fire -- Logging operations in the Amazon, above, housing developments encroaching on the waters of the Everglades, left, and warfare that gives rise to floods of refugees, like these Rwandan Hutus photographed in 1997, are continuing causes of environmental stress. (Reuters); (Associated Press); (Hans W. Silvester/Gamma-Liasion); Nature Fires Back -- A peregrine falcon in New Hampshire, gray wolves in Nova Scotia and a seemingly smug alligator in North Carolina are conservation successes. Once on the brink of extinction, all three species are on the comeback trail. (Associated Press); (Art Wolfe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); CANADA (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (59%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: OBJECTIVE AS (61%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (54%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (54%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); CANADA (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (59%); MADISON, WI, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); MAMMALS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); RIVERS (57%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K DEBORAH JENSEN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



260 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Jeanne Moore

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
GERMANY: POLITICAL DONATION CITED
Wolfgang Schauble, leader of the opposition Christian Democratic Union, said he received a cash donation of $52,000 from an arms dealer, Karlheinz Schreiber, in 1994. His admission came during an unfolding scandal over illegal donations involving the former party leader and chancellor, Helmut Kohl. Mr. Schauble said he noticed while re-examining party finances that the donation was listed as "special income" and had not been made public. (Reuters) 

VATICAN: CONTROVERSY OVER BISHOP'S REMARKS
Reports that a German bishop had called on Pope John Paul II to resign for health reasons stirred protests in Italy, but Bishop Karl Lehmann, head of the German Bishops Conference, insisted that he was misunderstood. Responding to a question in a television interview on Sunday whether the Pope should step down because of ill health, he had said: "I have confidence in the pope that when he feels he is no longer capable of leading the church with responsibility, he will have the strength and the courage to say 'I cannot fulfill this as is required.' " (AP)
 
SERBIA: OPPOSITION STRATEGY
Leaders of Serbia's fragmented opposition agreed to start anti-government protests if President Slobodan Milosevic ignores their demand to call early general elections by the end of April. If he accepts their demand, they said they would ask the United States and the European Union to lift economic sanctions. (Reuters)
 
GEORGIA: SHEVARDNADZE EYES SECOND TERM
President Eduard Shevardnadze announced that he would run for a second five-year term in the April 9 election, on a platform of improving the economy and relations with Western countries, and restoring territorial integrity, an allusion to the breakaway region of Abkhazia. (Reuters)
 
BRITAIN: IRANIAN OVERTURE
In the first official visit of an Iranian official to Britain since 1979, Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi held talks with Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Robin Cook. Diplomats said the meetings aimed at building on the improvement in ties since Iran distanced itself from the 1989 decree calling for the death of the British author Salman Rushdie. The two countries resumed relations last year. (Warren Hoge)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
COLOMBIA: LETHAL RIVALS
Five leaders of the country's second-largest guerrilla group were executed last month by troops of the largest insurgent group after a meeting between the two rebel armies degenerated into violence, according to a local press report. Both groups have been fighting for control of four northern provinces. The group whose commanders were shot to death, the National Liberation Army, issued a statement blaming "the arrogant attitude of some members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia." Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
COLOMBIA: MINISTER RESIGNS
The Minister of Mines and Energy, Luis Carlos Valenzuela, resigned, after accusations by a leading senator that he improperly pressured the state oil company to sell natural gas at below-market prices to the local affiliate of an American corporation. A firm that Mr. Valenzuela had headed before entering government has a stake in the business that would have benefited from the favorable treatment. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: APARTHEID-ERA LEADER MAY JOIN ANC
Former foreign minister Pik Botha, who served in the apartheid-era government, said he was considering joining the governing party, the African National Congress. Mr. Botha praised the A.N.C.'s conservative fiscal policies, adding that he had changed and so had the A.N.C., whose members his government had oppressed for decades. Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)
 
MOZAMBIQUE: OPPOSITION DROPS THREAT
Opposition leaders withdrew their threat to boycott Parliament, saying their deputies would take their seats when Parliament convenes this week. The opposition, known as Renamo, made the threat after incumbent President Joaquim Chissano won the presidential race and his party, Frelimo, regained control of Parliament in December, in elections Renamo charged were rigged. Renamo officials, who lost a bid for a recount when the Constitutional Court affirmed Mr. Chissano's victory, said they would pursue a recount from their 117 seats in Parliament. Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
SRI LANKA: CONSPIRACY CHARGED
State-run radio, citing unidentified police investigators, reported that a group of millionaire businessmen had conspired with the separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam and elements of the military in the assassination attempt on President Chandrika Kumaratunga last month. Had she died, the army officers reportedly planned to stage a coup. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
UZBEKISTAN: PRESIDENT AFFIRMED
President Islam Karimov won election to another five years in office, initial poll results showed. Mr. Karimov, Uzbekistan's leader since 1991, took 91.9 percent of the vote, the election commission said, while his opponent, Abdulkhafiz Dzhalalov, won 4.2 percent. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: REFORMERS BLOCKED FROM BALLOT
A conservative panel has barred prominent reform candidates close to President Mohammad Khatami, including the dissident cleric Abdollah Nouri, from the Feb. 18 parliamentary elections. Final rulings by the Council of Guardians are expected early next month. (Reuters)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); HOLY SEE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA (54%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (84%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (84%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); HOLY SEE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA (54%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); RELIGION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); ARMED FORCES (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SCANDALS (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ARMIES (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (67%); NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (65%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (62%); SHOOTINGS (60%); 

PERSON: WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (88%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



261 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
White House Steps Up Efforts for China Trade Deal

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
President Clinton promised today to wage an all-out campaign to get Congress to back a landmark trade deal with China, and administration officials have enlisted numerous corporate chief executives for what they describe as the most aggressive pro-trade lobbying effort since the United States opened its borders to free trade with Canada and Mexico seven years ago.
The campaign will pit the administration and its business allies against a network of labor, environmental and consumer groups, which oppose the new trade agreement with China and are eager to test their strength after successfully mobilizing street demonstrations that helped to scuttle world trade talks in Seattle late last year. 
 The vote concerns the November agreement between the United States and China that paves the way for China to enter the World Trade Organization. American companies will not benefit from the deal, which sharply cuts tariffs and clears barriers to freer trade in agriculture and services, unless Congress grants China the same access to the United States market that most other major trading partners have, forgoing an annual review of that country's trade status.
Clinton administration officials say they are guardedly optimistic that Congress will approve the terms of the deal. But having been stung by surprise defeats on previous trade accords and by the collapse of trade negotiations in Seattle, they are promising a steady stream of pro-trade events, speeches by Mr. Clinton and high-level administration attention until Congress votes on the issue in the spring or summer.
"I will be working hard over the coming weeks and coming months to make sure we don't let this opportunity slip away," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference to announce the members of an administration team appointed to oversee the campaign. "This is something that is in the national interest."
Mr. Clinton named William M. Daley, the commerce secretary, to lead the effort, a signal to many in the business community that the China trade deal has a higher political priority than some other recent votes on trade. Mr. Daley led the successful effort to win backing for the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and 1994, and is now seen as one of the few members of the administration who can orchestrate a successful political campaign.
Mr. Daley will be working on the issue with Steve Ricchetti, Mr. Clinton's deputy chief of staff, and they have already begun lining up some top corporate leaders, including the chiefs at Boeing, America Online and Intel, to become directly involved in selling the benefits of the trade accord to Congress and the public. The hope is that the lobbying campaign will have a high-technology edge, with popular companies that are pillars of the new economy supplementing stalwart trade supporters like Boeing and General Electric.
Technology companies and farmers have much to gain from the trade deal, which will, at least on paper, pry open parts of the Chinese economy that Beijing has tended to shelter from foreign competition. These include telecommunications, the Internet, and grain and meat products, all which are particular areas of American strength.
But the vote is nonetheless seen as a close contest. Trade divides Democrats like few political issues, pitting core labor and environmental supporters against business support. The administration fears that the Republicans, who control Congress, will seek to delay the vote until the fall, when the election season is at its peak, to make the vote as politically costly as possible for their opponents.
In part for that reason, Mr. Clinton vowed today to put pressure on Congress to bring the China trade accord to a vote before the summer.
Labor groups, meanwhile, have vowed to see the China trade deal defeated, with many expressing optimism that the momentum generated in Seattle will propel opposition to the China accord. Unions say that Congress cannot treat China like any other big trading partner because it treats its workers badly and regularly violates trade agreements.
"We will flood every Congressional office with phone calls, letters and visits," James P. Hoffa, president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, said. "We will do whatever it takes. And with the momentum from Seattle, we will win."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION INTEL CORP (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); BOEING CO (51%); AOL INC (51%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHINA; UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRADE SHOWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); NEW ECONOMY (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



262 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Dear Hafez . . .

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
With the Israeli-Syrian talks at Shepherdstown, W.Va., adjourned, President Clinton will surely be writing President Hafez al-Assad of Syria. Here's what I hope he'll say:
"Dear Hafez, I enjoyed my time with your foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara, at Shepherdstown. He really lightened up after a couple of days. He even loosened his tie once. And get this: One evening, while reaching for the salt at dinner, Farouk accidentally shook Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak's hand! Ehud wouldn't let go till we got the White House photographer in there. Farouk begged me not to, but I'm sending you the pix. Maybe it'll inspire you. One night after dinner Farouk got really wild and started telling us Assad jokes. He is some prankster. If only the Israelis could see his warm side . . . 
 "Anyway, Hafez, while the mood behind closed doors was good, the substance lagged. I'm still not sure you guys really get it. Hafez, have you ever seen the movie 'While You Were Sleeping'? 'Cause while you've been sleeping the cold war ended and the world changed. I hate to say this, but your economy can barely make a light bulb and your Soviet backers are gone. You're in a rather weak position. Now, there are two things you can do when you're weak: Compensate for weakness with sweetness, or compensate for weakness with craziness. Let me explain.
"Anwar el-Sadat also had a weak hand when he initiated the Camp David peace, but he compensated for it by building leverage within Israel. He reached out to the Israeli people in such a sincere, compelling way that he made them his own lobby within Israel. It worked well for him.
"The other strategy is the North Koreans'. They too are very weak, but the North Koreans compensate for their weakness by acting like lunatics. They regularly hint that they would use their nukes to start a war on the Korean Peninsula that could incinerate 30,000 U.S. troops. And we believe them. So we pay them to keep their nukes in the basement, they get to keep their regime as it is, and they shake us down for just enough potatoes so their people won't starve.
"Your problem, Hafez, is that you're neither weak and sweet nor weak and crazy. You're weak and mean. Bad combo, Hafez. You're neither enticing enough for the Israelis to want to give in to your demands, nor are you lunatic enough for them to believe that you'd ever launch your chemically tipped Scud missiles at Israel -- because Israel would retaliate by obliterating your regime.
"You seem to believe that your mere negotiating with Israel is a concession, and now Israel must reciprocate by agreeing to your every demand. Not only do the Israelis not consider your negotiating any big concession, but they insist you agree to all their demands. Moreover, they want you to do it with a smile. They want you to look as if you're enjoying it. Because there's going to be a referendum in Israel on any deal with Syria. The Israeli public will vote up or down. You have to win them over. Barak will need your help. And right now -- forget about the Israeli hawks -- most Israeli doves don't trust you. Did you see what the Israeli novelist and peacenik Amos Oz said last week? "The Syrians think they can get the Golan and send us a receipt by fax." Not a chance.
"And while we're talking price, don't think I'm in this for free, either. Sure, I want the legacy thing, but I'm not just some caterer for peace. If I'm going to persuade Congress to fork over $15 billion to pay for this deal, there has to be real strategic gain for the U.S. Syria will have to make a clean break from Iran, and openly work with us to isolate Iraq.
"I realize, now, Hafez, that you're not Sadat. You're Kim Jong Il of North Korea. Sadat wanted peace with Israel, because he wanted to change Egypt internally and externally. You want peace with Israel to get just enough goodies out of the West to sustain your regime, so you won't have to change much internally. Like the North Koreans, you want to keep Syria's door closed, but you're willing to open the window a crack so we can pass the goodies in that way.
"Sadat offered sweet weakness, which won Israel over. You offer mean, calculating weakness -- which is neither sugary enough to entice the Israelis nor crazy enough to intimidate them. I suggest you use this timeout to consider a new strategy. Best wishes, Bill."
(Coming soon: Assad's reply!) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSAD OF SYRIA (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSAD OF SYRIA (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES); BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN) EHUD BARAK (88%); BILL CLINTON (73%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



263 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Gore Presides Over Rare Security Council Debate on AIDS

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 10

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore, presiding over an unusual Security Council session called to debate the AIDS crisis in Africa, said today that the United States would add $150 million to next year's budget to help combat that and other infectious diseases in the poorest countries.
Mr. Gore appeared during a primary campaign in which his opponent, Bill Bradley, has consistently backed more cooperation with the United Nations. The occasion kicked off a month of a focus on Africa in the council organized by Richard C. Holbrooke, the American representative to the United Nations and the council president for January. 
 The pledge of more money is still subject to approval by Congress. And it made less news here than Mr. Gore's presence and than the recognition by the council that the AIDS epidemic in Africa had reached the level of an international security issue, because that problem could decimate the economic, political and military establishments in many countries.
The epidemic "is being more effective than war in destabilizing countries," said the president of the World Bank, James D. Wolfensohn. "We're rolling back some of the gains that have been made in Africa over the past 40 years. We gained, under African leadership, more than 20 years in life expectancy. In many countries, this will be lost by the year 2010."
Peter Piot, executive director of Unaids, a consortium of United Nations agencies that has been helping many programs in Africa for years, told the council that he estimated that his program needed $1 billion to $3 billion a year to fight AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa alone.
AIDS in Africa, several speakers noted, now kills more people than wars -- and more wars are being fought there than on any other continent. Furthermore, soldiers and international peacekeepers are in the forefront of those spreading the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS.
Across one society after another, the effects are devastating, a lineup of international experts testified. Around the world, more than 33 million people have AIDS or the virus that causes it. At least 70 percent are African.
"Just imagine that in Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe 25 percent of the people between 15 and 19 years of age are H.I.V. positive," Mr. Wolfensohn said. "We're losing teachers faster than we can replace them. We're losing judges, lawyers, government officials, persons in the military."
In the face of the crisis, a number of African leaders have refused to discuss the problem openly. The administrator of the United Nations Development Program, Mark Malloch Brown, said today: "In too many places, individual ostracism, and hence denial, still prevail, confounding good tracking and management of the disease. Change must begin by confronting the region's troubled inheritance -- extensive migrant labor, social norms and gender inequality making it hard for women and girls to deny men sex, leading to H.I.V. incidence rates among girls three or four times higher than boys."
Secretary General Kofi Annan said, "The first battle to be won in the war against AIDS is the battle to smash the wall of silence and stigma surrounding it."
Mr. Gore, who also spoke about the need to "destigmatize" AIDS, said the next Clinton administration budget would also include money for the Pentagon to share its expertise on controlling AIDS in the military with African nations.
The Ugandan Health Minister, Dr. Crispus Kiyonga, told the council that one program that had made his country the continent's leader in the fight against AIDS was in the armed forces. Dr. Kiyonga said that Uganda had also established campaigns in educational institutions and 4,000 private organizations and that it was using songs, billboards and radio and television to spread information.
By 1995, Dr. Kiyonga said, surveys found that many more people than earlier were using condoms and reducing sexual partners, often "sticking to one."
Not all council members approved the unusual debate, in which more than 24 diplomats spoke. China and Russia refused to take part. Both have fought to keep social issues out of the council, fearing the introduction of human rights cases, diplomats say.
Mr. Holbrooke said the Russians and Chinese agreed to the debate only on the promise that it would not set a precedent.
For many at the United Nations, it was the "old Al Gore" who spoke today, an American whom they remember as once deeply involved in international issues. As a senator in 1992, he led a Congressional delegation to the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. In 1994, he went to Cairo for an international conference on population and development.
But in the second Clinton administration, as the White House and State Department have become increasingly skittish about involvement in international organizations in the face of Republican hostility in Congress, Mr. Gore, as well as Hillary Rodham Clinton, have been seen much less frequently at public United Nations events.
American diplomats said Mr. Gore was the first American vice president to preside over the Security Council. But he was not the first vice president of the United States to address the council. Vice President George Bush spoke for the United States in July 1988, when Iran tried to obtain a condemnation of the United States after an American warship had shot down an Iranian passenger plane over the Persian Gulf.
That year was also a presidential election year, and Mr. Bush was the most likely Republican candidate. His advisers later acknowledged that Mr. Bush, who had been the American representative at the United Nations in the early 1970's, had been encouraged to go to the council to demonstrate his presidential qualities in an international arena.
Today, Jeffrey Laurenti, executive director of policy studies at the United Nations Association of the United States, a support and research group, contended that the same thinking might have applied to Mr. Gore's appearance.
"This was sold to the Gore office as a political stop, a campaign stop that outshines what he might do on a bus in New Hampshire or Iowa," said Mr. Laurenti, who has worked on Democratic campaigns in New Jersey. "It was sold not as an important step for international policy, but as a way to showcase the vice president as an international leader."
Mr. Gore's speech, Mr. Laurenti said, had something to appeal to a gay audience, to blacks and to women.
But Mr. Holbrooke, asked by reporters whether Mr. Gore's appearance, lasting less than an hour, had more to do with politics than Africa, called the question "a truly outrageous accusation."
"He said that all his domestic advisers opposed this," Mr. Holbrooke said.
Mr. Annan saw the political possibilities, however. In the only light moment of the daylong debate on a grim subject, he expressed gratitude to Mr. Gore for introducing him effusively. "Thank you Mr. Vice President, or perhaps I should say Mr. President," Mr. Annan said, leaving a long pause before adding "of the Security Council." By council standards, it brought down the house.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore speaking at the U.N. next to Secretary General Kofi Annan. AIDS has become an international security problem. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Shortened Lives"
AIDS has become the leading killer in Africa, causing 20 percent of all deaths. As a cause of death worldwide, AIDS is now ranked fourth.
 
Chart lists statistics for worldwide deathrates.
(Sources: World Health Organization, UNAIDS; United Nations Population Division)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZAMBIA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY COUNCIL (UN); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITY COUNCIL (UN); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZAMBIA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; ELECTION ISSUES; FOREIGN AID; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 AIDS & HIV (97%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); VIRUSES (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); WOMEN (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TESTIMONY (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (61%); GENDER EQUALITY (60%); LAWYERS (50%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB) AL GORE (93%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



264 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Action on AIDS in Africa

 BODY:
Imagine 40 million hungry and destitute orphans in sub-Saharan Africa by the year 2010 -- roaming the streets without schooling or work, prime candidates for the criminal gangs, marauding militias and child armies that have slaughtered and mutilated tens of thousands of civilians in countries like Sierra Leone and Liberia in the last decade.
This is the kind of nightmare that prompted the United Nations Security Council to convene yesterday for an unprecedented examination of a health issue -- the global spread of AIDS, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, where experts predict that more people will die of AIDS in the next decade than have died in all the wars of the 20th century. The Clinton administration is wise to use its monthlong leadership of the Security Council to put this devastating crisis, too often hidden by secrecy and shame, at the top of the world's security agenda. 
 The sheer scale of Africa's AIDS epidemic defies comprehension. South of the Sahara, more than 14 million have died thus far. In some countries one in four adults is infected, the majority under the age of 25. In South Africa, which has the highest rate of infection in the world, 3.5 million people will die in the next decade. The United Nations has called the spread of AIDS in Africa "the worst infectious disease catastrophe since the bubonic plague," which killed one-third of Europe's population in the 14th century.
For these nations, AIDS is not just a humanitarian problem. It is, as Vice President Al Gore argued in a forceful speech to the Security Council yesterday, a "security crisis." In attacking the young it saps work forces, undermining economic development and political stability. AIDS has killed disproportionately high numbers of teachers, doctors, nurses.
The administration is seeking $325 million from Congress in next year's budget to combat AIDS abroad, an increase of $100 million from current levels. The added funding would support education and prevention programs, community-based care, blood screening and testing, and special care for orphans. Increased funding is surely welcome, but this figure is woefully inadequate when measured against the scale of the problem. The U.S. spends $7 billion a year on AIDS prevention, treatment and research at home, where 40,000 new cases are diagnosed every year. In Africa, 5.6 million new cases appear annually in countries with the most ill-equipped health care systems on earth.
The stigma attached to AIDS has hampered efforts to curb the epidemic. That may be where yesterday's Security Council debate makes its most lasting contribution. By giving this crisis the prominent platform it deserves, the United States is finally providing the leadership needed to overcome what the vice president properly decried as "the ignorance and indifference that lead to infection." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: AFRICA (98%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); LIBERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: SAHARA DESERT (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) ON TOP OF THE WORLD INC (69%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (98%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); LIBERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAHARA DESERT (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; EDITORIALS AIDS & HIV (96%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CRIME PREVENTION (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (76%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (76%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



265 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Coping With Teacher Shortages

 BODY:
Educators have been warning for years that the country would face a crippling teacher shortage unless it raised teacher salaries and attracted fresh talent to the profession. But as the Secretary of Education, Richard W. Riley, noted in Washington Sunday, the country has fallen so short of qualified teachers that "schools have been forced to put any warm body in front of the classroom." Faced with public outrage over failing schools -- and the need to fill more than two million teacher vacancies over the next 10 years -- the states, Congress and the presidential candidates are floating proposals to attract more people to the profession. The problem will require a great deal more resourcefulness.
After years of indifference, the states have embarked on a bidding war for the available talent. New York graduates roughly 21,000 teachers each year -- only to see two-thirds of them hired in other states that offer better opportunities. Gov. George Pataki hopes to change that picture with an inducement package that would include free tuition for public university graduates who work in low-performing schools and modified pension rules that would allow retired public employees to teach without losing their retirement benefits. 
 These are promising measures, but they do not address the salary imbalances that place urban centers like New York City at a disadvantage. The city has more than 90 percent of the state's uncertified teachers and is losing its best teachers to suburbs that pay as much as $30,000 more per year. Gov. Gray Davis of California wants to confront a similar imbalance by offering home loans, salary bonuses and tuition forgiveness for teachers who agree to work in low-performing schools.
It is estimated that the country will need to hire 250,000 teachers a year over the next 10 years to keep pace with demand. This will be difficult, given a full-employment economy and low teachers' salaries. Nationally, the average starting pay for a teacher is $25,735 -- compared with $42,862 for engineers, and $40,920 for computer scientists.
The federal government has historically viewed public schooling as a local matter in which Washington plays only a peripheral role. But the outcry over failing schools has reached Congress too. Vice President Al Gore has proposed federally financed salary increases for veteran teachers who serve in poor districts. A bill to provide more incentives for teachers is being sponsored in the Senate by Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, and in the House by Representative George Miller of California. Among other things, it would forgive undergraduate loans for people who teach for at least five years and would cover 75 percent of the training costs for teachers who become board-certified "master teachers."
It is important to raise the salaries of teachers and to restore their status as respected professionals. That will help attract talent to the profession and ensure that every child in America has access to a teacher who is well trained and capable. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2611 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; SHORTAGES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES TEACHING & TEACHERS (99%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BONUS PAY (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (57%); AL GORE (54%); CHARLES SCHUMER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



266 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Foes Fight Ecuador's Leader on Dollar Plan

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Jan. 10

 BODY:
A decision by President Jamil Mahuad to try to solve an economic crisis by adopting the United States dollar as the new currency led to stepped-up calls today from opposition groups for his ouster.
The groups contended that the decision would lead to "massive impoverishment," and they threatened nationwide "mobilizations and paralyzations" until he stepped down. 
 Mr. Mahuad made his announcement in a televised speech late Sunday night, just two days after the managing director of the Central Bank had said that the government had no intention of "introducing rushed, crazy measures."
Mr. Mahuad also said he had asked his entire 15-member cabinet to resign, to give him maneuverability. And he warned opponents, "We will maintain order and discipline in this country," no matter the cost.
In the speech, Mr. Mahuad presented his proposal, which the board of the Central Bank has to vote on, as a bold initiative that would pull Ecuador's 12 million people out of its worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. "Ecuador does not need timid measures, but to go to the core of the problems," he said.
"I recognize that I have been slow to act," Mr. Mahuad said by way of apology for a dismal 1999, in which the economy contracted more than 7 percent, inflation soared to more than 60 percent and the country defaulted on foreign debt. "But I have my foot on the accelerator now."
The move is intended, his administration said, to bring stability to an economy that has been the victim of rampant speculation against its currency, which lost 67 percent of its value against the dollar last year.
Most independent analysts, however, interpreted the dollarization measure as a last-ditch effort to blunt the resignation clamor. Mr. Mahuad, a Harvard-educated centrist, declared a state of national emergency last week, for the fourth time since taking office in August 1998. But a coalition of student, labor, Indian and political groups said they would defy his ban on protests and begin a general strike this week.
"This is an act of desperation in the face of a crisis that is spinning out of control, an attempt to remain in power despite the loss of public support," said Alberto Acosta, a prominent economic analyst and political commentator. "It is the unconditional surrender of a country that recognizes its own inability to conduct a monetary policy on its own."
Mr. Mahuad's decision to abandon the currency, the sucre, in favor of the dollar won the support of banks and many business groups.
Less than 18 months into his five-year term, though, the rest of his support has all but vanished as a result of the economic crisis. In a recent poll, 8 percent of those who responded expressed satisfaction with his performance, and 53 percent said he should resign.
"The government, the Parliament, the courts, they have all got to go," Antonio Vargas, leader of the most powerful Indian group, said today at a news conference that denounced the dollar plan. "Our decision is to pursue this to the final consequences, that all of them go and the Ecuadorean people save themselves" through a new unity government.
Even the always powerful military, which has supported Mr. Mahuad in past crises, has offered only lukewarm support. On Saturday, the Armed Forces issued a statement that, though it rejected joining opposition groups in a patriotic junta and called for respect for constitutional order, pointedly did not mention the president by name.
President Clinton telephoned Mr. Mahuad on Friday to express his support, and Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and officials of the International Monetary Fund have also had encouraging words. But that was before Mr. Mahuad decided to adopt the dollar.
The United States Treasury Department, which has sole authority to print dollars and monitors the use of the currency abroad, has not encouraged Ecuador to use dollars as its currency, though it has at least publicly not opposed the move.
Economists are divided about whether such a step makes sense for a country in crisis. Some say abandoning a weak currency in favor of the dollar could shore up confidence. Others warn that quick monetary fixes are no substitute for overhauling the weak banking system and improving fiscal policies.
"We are closely watching developments in Ecuador," a senior Treasury official said. "Strong underlying economic policies, including policies to ensure sound banking sector and public finances, will be essential for Ecuador to achieve economic and financial confidence."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK & TRUST CO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; ECUADOR (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; MAHUAD, JAMIL (PRES) JAMIL MAHUAD (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



267 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
NasdaqClimbs Sharply in Spillover From Media Merger

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices posted sharp gains again yesterday, spurred in part by America Online's surprise $165 billion takeover of Time Warner.
The deal sparked demand for entertainment and Internet shares, as investors piled into companies that might be merger candidates. 
 The Nasdaq composite index, which jumped 155.49 on Friday, surpassed that one-day point record yesterday, rising 167.05 points, or 4.3 percent, to 4,049.67. With the gain, the index has regained almost all of what it lost in the big selloff last week.
"As the bond market begins to settle down, the stock market is looking to see if the world has changed all that much, and it really hasn't," said Peter Canelo, a United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "It seems like it is going to be another very strong year for earnings in the technology sector."
Technology stocks helped to power the Dow Jones industrial average to a new record. Led by Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M. and Intel, the Dow rose 49.64 points, or 0.43 percent, to 11,572.20. Walt Disney, another Dow component that is the second-largest media and entertainment company after Time Warner, also had a very strong day, rising 4 3/8, to 35 1/2.
Shares of Time Warner, which jumped 25 1/4, to 90, were the biggest gainer among the components of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. But America Online, another S.& P. component, fell 2 3/16, to 71 1/4.
The S.& P. 500 index closed at 1,457.60, up 16.13 points, or 1.1 percent. And the Russell 2000 index of small-cap stocks had a very strong session, gaining 13.58 points, or 2.78 percent, to 501.89.
While technology shares had a very good day, investors moved out of sectors like financial services and pharmaceuticals, which attracted interest last week.
Still, stocks gaining in price outnumbered those that lost in value on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market. Volume on both exchanges was heavy: on the Big Board, 1.06 billion shares changed hands. Volume on the Nasdaq stock market was 1.69 billion shares.
The big price gains over the last two sessions have left some traders and analysts a bit troubled.
"The AOL/Time Warner announcement was a great catalyst, and made people say this is the first of several deals to look forward to," said Ned Collins, head trader at Daiwa Securities America. "But a lot of us are concerned about the level of the market. Because money is flowing in, stocks are probably going to be O.K. for a period of time. The question is for how long."
The America Online announcement bolstered shares of media-related and Internet-portal stocks like Yahoo. Yahoo, which is expected to report its fourth-quarter results after the market closes today, jumped 28 13/16, to 436 1/16.
Viacom gained 4 7/8, to 59. Seagram rose 5 3/8, to 54. CBS climbed 4 3/16, to 62 1/16.
Hewlett-Packard was the best-performing Dow stock yesterday. The stock rose 7 3/16, to 111 1/16.
But I.B.M. and Intel, two other technology giants, also registered solid gains. I.B.M. gained 4 1/8, to 118 7/16. And Intel, which is expected to report its fourth-quarter results later this week, was up 3 3/4, to 85 3/4.
It was a bad day, in general, for big drug and financial services companies.
Johnson & Johnson fell 1 11/16, to 94 1/16; Merck lost 2 3/16, to 72 3/4; and Bristol-Myers Squibb shed 3/4, to 67 3/4.
Among financial services companies, J. P. Morgan lost 2 1/2, to 120 5/16. Chase Manhattan declined 1 1/4, to 71 1/2. And Bank of America fell 1 13/16, to 46 7/8.
Elsewhere, the PE Corporation's Celera Genomics Group soared 52 9/16, to 239 1/2, after the company said it had sequenced more than 90 percent of the material in the human genome, the genetic blueprint for the human body. Celera said its scientists were on track to complete the sequencing of the human genome this summer.
Aon was a big loser. The insurance broker fell 12 5/8, to 30 1/8, after it said its fourth-quarter profit would fall substantially short of Wall Street forecasts because of charges stemming from a pending legal settlement and slumping sales.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 By Bloomberg News
Bond prices fell yesterday, pushing yields close to their highest level in more than two years, on concern that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates a half-point this quarter to rein in growth.
Traders also sold Treasuries as stocks rose, dampening demand for fixed-income securities.
Bonds have "an enormous hurdle to cross to be competitive with the stock market," said Jack Kallis, who helps oversee $1.5 billion at State Street Research and Management in Boston. Yields on 30-year bonds will "have to get to 7 percent to draw people's attention," he said.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 16/32, to 94 2/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.59 percent, from 6.54 percent on Friday.
Treasuries may decline further this week after reports on producer and consumer prices, which are expected to show inflation quickened in December.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table:
000 omitted in dollar figures)

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.


Both issues are dated Jan. 13, 2000. The three-month bills mature on April 13, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on July 13, 2000.
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (84%); TWX (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (84%); TIME WARNER INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); INTEL CORP (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (96%); MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



268 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Consider Remedy For Government Grudges

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
One proposition went undisputed in a case argued before the Supreme Court today: that people whose race or sex makes them the targets of unfavorable official action can sue the government for violating their constitutional right to equal protection.
But what about someone who is singled out not because of membership in a particular group, but simply because a government official bears a personal grudge? As Justice Sandra Day O'Connor put the question: "Is there a lawsuit just because the mayor in his heart of hearts hated the plaintiff?" 
 In legal terms, the justices were being asked today to decide, in a case growing out of an Illinois village's delay in connecting a homeowner's property to the public water supply, whether someone can bring an equal protection case as a "class of one" -- as the target of official ill will or vindictiveness, unrelated to membership in a historically vulnerable group to which the court has given special protection.
The justices appeared almost to assume that the answer was yes, but with qualifications, and it was there that a seemingly simple case became complex. The justices were concerned with how a municipality could defend itself. As Justice Anthony M. Kennedy told the homeowner's lawyer: "What's bothering us, if we accept your theory, is that the tens of thousands of zoning decisions, where local personalities are involved, will always be followed by lawsuits and the federal courts will become the ultimate policemen of zoning disputes."
One possible defense that emerged was to grant the government defendants a large benefit of the doubt: as long as they might have had a rational reason for their action, there would be no constitutional violation even if a grudge might really have been at the heart of the matter.
"The motive need not be delved into if the ultimate government purpose is legitimate," James L. DeAno, the lawyer representing the village of Willowbrook, told the justices. The ultimate question, he said, was "is there a conceivable rational basis for what was done?"
Under Supreme Court precedent, courts generally reject challenges to economic regulations if the government had a rational basis for its policy. But official actions singling out members of protected groups are subject to higher levels of scrutiny.
The prospect of applying the rational-basis test in the case today posed several theoretical problems for the court. "We can have a 'class of one,' but a court can always dream up a rational basis," Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said.
Justice John Paul Stevens asked John R. Wimmer, the lawyer for the homeowner, what should happen if a city conceded that vindictiveness was the real motive but also asserted that its lawyer had advised it that a rational basis was available that the city could have claimed.
The plaintiff should win such a case, Mr. Wimmer said.
The Clinton administration took a middle position in the case, Village of Willowbrook v. Olech, No. 98-1288. Irving L. Gornstein, an assistant solicitor general, said that while courts should recognize an equal protection suit for a class of one, the government should prevail as long as it could show it had a "conceivable rational basis." Mr. Gornstein said the equal protection guarantee offered "a baseline protection only against those differences that lack any rational basis." He added: "You don't inquire into motive."
The case is an appeal by the village from a 1998 ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago. That court, applying one of its own precedents, held that a federal district judge was wrong to have dismissed a suit against the village brought by Grace Olech, a homeowner who had wanted her property connected to the public water supply.
Mr. Olech said that because she had angered village officials with a lawsuit about flooding, she was singled out for the demand that she grant the village an unusually large easement for road construction before she could get water. After three months, the village backed down.
"The village does not deny that it has a legal obligation to provide water to all its residents," Judge Richard A. Posner wrote in the appeals court's opinion reinstating the lawsuit. "If it refuses to perform this obligation for one of the residents, for no reason other than a baseless hatred, then it denies that resident the equal protection of the laws."
These were among the other developments at the court today.
 
Megan's Law
The court turned down an appeal by Pennsylvania of a ruling by the state Supreme Court that the procedure for determining whether a convicted sex offender is a "sexually violent predator" under the state's version of Megan's Law violated the constitutional guarantee of due process of law. The justices offered no comment in rejecting the appeal.
While all 50 states have adopted laws, patterned after the original 1994 law in New Jersey, to provide for continued surveillance and community notification of the whereabouts of sex offenders, the Pennsylvania law imposed an additional legal burden on the offenders.
The law contained a legal presumption that anyone convicted of a variety of sex crimes, from misdemeanors to serious felonies, fit the category of "sexually violent predator" and was therefore subject to a maximum sentence of life in prison no matter what the sentence for the actual offense. The defendant could rebut the presumption by clear and convincing evidence.
In striking down this provision last June, the state Supreme Court said it violated due process for the state to shift the burden of proof from itself to the defendant. The case was Pennsylvania v. Williams, No. 99-709.
 
AIDS Insurance Cap
Also without comment, the court refused to hear an appeal challenging an insurance company's imposition of a cap of lifetime benefits for treatment of medical needs related to H.I.V. or AIDS. The lifetime maximum benefits under policies issued by Mutual of Omaha are either $25,000 or $100,000, depending on the policy, compared to maximums of $1 million or more for coverage of conditions not related to AIDS.
Two H.I.V.-positive policyholders challenged the benefit caps as a violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act. They won in a 1998 decision by the federal district court in Chicago that the Seventh Circuit overturned last June. The appeals court ruled that the disabilities act, which bars discrimination on the basis of disability, guarantees access to insurance but does not regulate the content of insurance policies. The appeal was Doe v. Mutual of Omaha, No. 99-772. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); MUTUAL OF OMAHA

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); MUTUAL OF OMAHA

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLOWBROOK (ILL); PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; SEX CRIMES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); IMMUNITY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); ZONING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MAYORS (75%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); LEGISLATION (69%); AIDS & HIV (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



269 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Pataki to Seek Tax Credits For Ecological Construction

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki plans to propose a tax break today for builders who construct or renovate buildings in ways that cut pollution, waste, energy use and indoor air contamination.
Mr. Pataki's plan could breathe new life into "green building" legislation that has floated in Albany for two years. If adopted, the tax breaks could make New York a national leader in promoting ecologically beneficial building methods, according to several environmental experts. 
 Aides to the governor said Mr. Pataki's initial package of tax credits would be unveiled today as part of his budget proposal for the next fiscal year and would be limited to $25 million spread over several years. They said the goal was to create enough demand for environmentally beneficial technologies and materials so that they would become standard in all construction.
The first new structure to take advantage of the program could be a 25-story residential tower proposed for Lower Manhattan. The Battery Park City Authority is scheduled to request proposals today for construction of the 337,000-square-foot building, calling for details like carpets and paints that emit no hazardous fumes, computer-controlled lighting and energy systems that trim electricity bills, and special window glass and rooftop gardens that insulate in winter and deflect the heat of the summer sun.
In a printed statement about his tax credit plan, Mr. Pataki hailed the Battery Park proposal as the kind of project the state hoped to encourage. The building proposal, he said, contains "high environmental standards that put New York State and Battery Park City solidly in the green."
Many states, including New York, already have a variety of financial incentives encouraging developers and building owners to improve energy efficiency, but the proposed tax credit program, which would be much broader, would be the first of its kind in the country, said Ashok Gupta, the senior energy economist for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private group that has promoted the legislation in the state. "We're very excited about it."
Under Mr. Pataki's version of the tax credits, an architect would assess construction plans and certify that they met standards like using recycled materials and nonpolluting air-conditioning systems, as well as other requirements to be drawn up. The credits would only go on buildings over 20,000 square feet, meaning small structures, like a Brooklyn brownstone co-op, would not qualify.
A builder could get a tax credit for up to 5 percent of the cost of environmentally beneficial technologies or materials, or 6 percent if the building was in an economically troubled part of the state. If the tenants all hewed to the same standards, an extra 2 percent credit could be claimed.
An aide to Assemblyman Paul D. Tonko, a Montgomery County Democrat who has sponsored similar bills for two years, said the governor's enthusiasm for the idea increased prospects that a bill could pass.
"We've been wanting to attack the energy crisis in this state from both the consumption side and the price side," Mr. Tonko said yesterday. "Consumption here is still higher than the national average."
But he and other critics have complained that Mr. Pataki's proposal is too limited in scope, with just a few large projects like the Battery Park proposal potentially consuming most of the available money.
Environmentalists welcomed the plan. "The real estate industry, the unions, builders, essentially everybody is saying we can change industry practices with this approach," Mr. Gupta said. "In 5 or 10 years, you won't need tax credits because this would be the new industry norm."
Some large commercial buildings built recently, like the Conde Nast headquarters at 4 Times Square, have incorporated a variety of environmental features, but few residential buildings have. The Battery Park tower would be the first in the Northeast to do so, according to the authority, a public benefit corporation created 32 years ago to oversee development of the former landfill site.
From the outside, it would resemble the other sweeping brick-faced structures in the riverside complex. But the authority wants the builder to include appliances that use 30 percent less energy than the current allowance under state energy codes, and air filters to keep indoor air from accumulating dangerous fumes that have become a problem in some modern, tightly sealed buildings. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BATTERY PARK CITY AUTHORITY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: BATTERY PARK CITY AUTHORITY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; ENVIRONMENT TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) PAUL TONKO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



270 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: City Weighs Price of Its Good Name

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: HALFWAY, Ore., Jan. 6

 BODY:
If the nation must have its first official "dot-com" city, Halfway hardly seems the obvious choice. Tucked away in the shadow of the snowy Wallowa Mountains in eastern Oregon's sagebrush country, hard by the Idaho border and just south of Hells Canyon, the community is decidedly not an Internet boomtown.
Halfway's glory days from the gold-rush era are long past. The logging industry is virtually shut down. The communities between which it once served as a stagecoach stop, thus taking its name, are hardly thriving either. 
 "One's a ghost town and the other's underwater," said Halfway's city planner, Patti Huff.
So it was with some bewilderment that citizens of Halfway, a pretty but economically challenged city of 362, greeted an announcement recently that their City Council had abruptly agreed to change the community's name for the year 2000 to Half.com, after an Internet start-up based in suburban Philadelphia. Half.com, the company, sought the name change as a publicity gimmick on the eve of launching its Web site.
Not all people in Halfway embraced the change, and the city's leaders quickly said final approval of the switch had been incorrectly recorded in the minutes of their December meeting. But, they said, the idea of becoming the first community anywhere with a dot-com in its name was under serious discussion.
And now, the matter is the dominant topic of conversation, even surpassing the two and a half feet of snow that fell in recent days, covering Halfway in lustrous winter beauty. It has been the subject of three raucous public meetings and is "absolutely the most controversial issue ever to hit this town," in the words of Cynthia Valcarcel, a broker for Hells Canyon Realty. The City Council is expected to vote later this month.
Just what's in it for Halfway remains a bit murky. The company says it will promote the town as a tourist destination on its Web site, and it has offered several inducements, like computers for the schools. Many people here insist the community should hold out for -- what else? -- stock options.
On one level, the fracas has a humorous air, a bizarre meeting of a proudly quirky mountain town straight out of "Northern Exposure" with some young barons of the Internet age. And it has a bittersweet tinge, reminiscent of how the struggling Montana town of Ismay, population 22, unofficially renamed itself Joe several years ago in a desperate bid to lure tourists to a place that shared the name of a football superstar, Joe Montana.
But the basic idea is not unprecedented: after all, Hot Springs, N.M., legally renamed itself Truth or Consequences, after the game show, in 1950. And the mayor of West Homestead, Pa., noting that sports stadiums seem to be renamed left and right after corporate sponsors, announced last year that his small town would rename itself if a sponsor could be found to pay it $1 million (no takers yet).
And so the coming vote here is a serious matter, generating petitions and passionate opinions. It hardly seems an exaggeration to declare that the people of Halfway are split, well, halfway on what they should do.
"My great-great-grandfather named this town, so if anyone should be against it, I should be," said Lynne Melchior, the bartender at Wild Bill's Saloon. "But I'm not. I think it's great. I think it's visionary, it's creative. It's just fun."
But the opponents are no less animated. "Personally, I don't want to see the town of Halfway become Half.com," said Bruce Honeyman, a carpenter, virtually spitting out the dot-com. "Everything in the world seems to be going into Internet lingo. It's crazy and ridiculous."
Bud Riggs, a retired installer of telephone equipment, said his son, across the state in Portland, had called to rib him. "He says, 'So Dad, I hear you're living in the nerd capital of the world right now,' " Mr. Riggs recalled. "Now he was only joking, but still, it kind of bothered me a bit."
No one here seriously seems to think that adopting the name Half.com will turn Halfway into a mini-Silicon Valley, or bring a wave of high-paying computer jobs to town.
The precise benefits to Halfway remain under negotiation with Half.com's marketing director, Mark Hughes, who flew into Boise, Idaho, and drove four hours over the mountains this week to work out the deal.
Mr. Hughes said his company was interested in wrapping up a deal soon, to help promote the unveiling of a new form of "person-to-person e-commerce" on its Web site.
"It's a completely unique space," said Mr. Hughes, declining to discuss the details. "We think it will be the most exciting site since eBay or Amazon.com."
In addition to a link to Halfway on its Web site, Half.com has offered other options, including half-price Internet access for everyone with a computer, or maybe free access for everyone for half a year, or a raffle at the annual rodeo and fair in which the winner would get half of his or her mortgage paid off.
Legally changing Halfway's name could take years and require state approval, so, for now, the idea seems to be that the community would do it by unofficial proclamation, putting the new name, say, on signposts at the entrance to town or on the city's letterhead. (The postmaster here, Lon Nadler, said he had already gotten two letters with Half.com in the address, and he seemed unfazed: "The correct zip code's the main thing," he said.)
Halfway's mayor, Dick Crow, a retired fire management officer for the Forest Service, said he was amazed at all the interest. "When the Council met the other night, we had 50 people there," Mr. Crow said. "Before that, you're lucky if one or two people show up to watch."
Mr. Crow is favorably inclined. "If it helps the schools, if it helps the city at all, it's a good thing," he said. "We're in dire need of snow removal equipment, as you can see. It might be an opportunity to get kids to stay here."
The idea that the Half.com name might generate jobs is clearly a strong factor at work, if a somewhat vague one.
"We're just looking for small cottage industries," said Ms. Huff, the city planner. "If it's with computers, fine. Antiques. Anything."
While many people here clearly seem enthused about the idea of becoming Half.com and amused by the attention, others are clearly angry. At least 40 people signed a letter to the Hells Canyon Journal opposing the idea.
Ms. Valcarcel, the real estate broker, still making up her mind, said she thought that whatever happened, the debate had been a good thing for Halfway.
"It's really got everybody talking, and thinking," she said. "The question is, Where do we want to go? Or do we want to go anyplace at all?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Hughes, left, marketing director of the Internet start-up Half.com, joined Dick Crow, the mayor of Halfway, Ore., for a look at the city that might agree to put dot-com in its name. (Photographs by Glenn Oakley for The New York Times)
 
Map of the United States shows location of Halfway, Oregon: Halfway, Ore., has models in renaming, official or otherwise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HALF.COM HALF.COM INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HALF.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: HALFWAY (ORE); UNITED STATES (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL INTERNET & WWW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); MAYORS (75%); STARTUPS (73%); WEB SITES (66%); APPROVALS (66%); TOURISM (63%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (61%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



271 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Clinton to Offer Aid in Colombia Drug War

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
President Clinton plans to announce on Tuesday a $1.28 billion emergency aid program for Colombia to help that country fight the growing narcotics trade and to prop up its democracy over the next two years, a senior administration official said today.
"The president believes there is a strong national interest in helping Colombia deal with the narcotics threat," the official said. "It is clearly a situation where emergency money is warranted, given the determination of the drug traffickers to undermine the government in Bogota." 
 Although the money would be aimed at fighting drugs, it would also help a government that is battling one of the longest guerrilla wars in Latin America, one that has become intertwined with the narcotics trade and has left tens of thousands dead over 40 years.
The proposal is an accelerated version of legislation that Congressional Republicans introduced in the fall to provide more than $1.2 billion to Colombia over three years to stem what they described as a "crisis situation."
The largest part of the administration package would be spent on military hardware to upgrade Colombian forces in their fight against narcotics traders, many of whom are aligned with antigovernment rebels.
The administration proposal would also finance strengthening the justice system and give money to people displaced by the civil war at a time when Colombia is buckling under its worst economy in decades.
The biggest single item is $400 million to buy 30 Blackhawk helicopters, which are equipped with weapons but are mostly used for ferrying troops and equipment, said a Pentagon official.
Most of the money, including funds to buy military equipment, would be under the direction of the State Department, not the Pentagon.
Even though 10 percent of the money would go to the Pentagon, there was concern that a program of such size could inexorably lead to a broader American military commitment to the war and the potential for American soldiers to be drawn into combat against the insurgency.
"We must question whether or not this aid package is another thinly veiled counterinsurgency program, one that will deepen the U.S. involvement in this dirty war," said Carlos Salinas of Amnesty International.
Although officials at the Office of Management and Budget refined the proposal late into the evening, the new financing would pay for three general programs.
The Pentagon would receive $144 million to help train two additional antinarcotics battalions. They would begin operations in southern Colombia and improve the tracking of narcotics dealers with new radios and other equipment, as well as improving ground-based radar, an administration official said.
The larger amount would buy helicopters to help stop the narcotics trade.
The administration has been grappling with Colombian policy since last year, when Congressional Republicans made their proposal and President Andres Pastrana outlined a $7.5 billion strategy to solve his nation's crisis in an address to the United Nations General Assembly.
Mr. Clinton's plan answers many of the requests in Mr. Pastrana's "Plan Colombia" and is meant to illustrate that Mr. Clinton has made Colombia a foreign policy priority in his last year in office.
In this year's budget, Colombia receives $300 million, making it the third largest recipient of aid, behind Israel and Egypt. With the money already allotted to Colombia, the entire two-year package would total $1.6 billion.
One big proponent of the additional aid is Gen. Barry McCaffrey, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. In a visit to Colombia last summer, he said that Colombia was in "an emergency situation." General McCaffrey argued that the distinction between rebels and drug traffickers had grown irrelevant and that the poorly equipped and inadequately trained armed forces needed immediate help.
But Congress cut off military assistance to much of the Colombian army two years ago to protest its record of human rights abuses. Under a law sponsored by Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, the American Embassy in Bogota now reviews all members of the antidrug battalion who are being trained by American Special Forces units, to ensure that the Colombians are not human rights abusers.
That instruction includes intelligence, communications, reconnaisance, river operations and mortars, American officials said.
Bogota is very pleased with the proposal, said a senior Colombian official, who added that his government had been working with Congress and the White House to draw up a package that Republicans and Democrats would approve.
"Drug production," the official said, "feeds all the violence in Colombia, creates the economic problems, hurts the people and creates problems of human rights."
Mr. Pastrana has failed in his attempts to negotiate a cease-fire with the rebels or to reduce cocaine production, which thrives despite a nearly 50 percent increase in American drug-eradication efforts in 1998. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); DISPLACED PERSONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); TRENDS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); RADAR SYSTEMS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); HELICOPTERS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BECKER, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



272 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
AOL Time Warner may inflate Internet stock values even more. Yet its own could falter.

BYLINE: By Gretchen Morgenson 

 BODY:
WHEN Time Inc. acquired Warner Communications 10 years ago, it took seven years for shareholders in the combined company to see any meaningful gain in their stock. Will shareholders in a merged AOL Time Warner see better returns?
News of the deal sent Time Warner shares soaring yesterday morning to a high of $102, a 58 percent gain from their close on Friday. By the end of the day, the stock was trading at $90. America Online's shares rose to $80 early in the day but closed at $71.25, down nearly 3 percent. 
 By the session's end, Time Warner stock remained 16 percent below the roughly $110 value assigned to it by AOL's closing price on Friday. This suggests that investors have some questions about the deal's viability and that few expect another company to swoop in with a counteroffer.
For shareholders, the decision about whether to sell comes down to whether they are enamored of the Internet growth story or more concerned with earnings.
This being the Internet age, most analysts think that the new company's benefits to shareholders will be immediate and that the deal will justify even higher valuations among already manic Web stocks.
"Just as Home Box Office redefined the cable industry and provided the catalyst that made cable companies go out and offer new services, the combination of Time Warner and AOL should act as a stimulus of the broadband adoption of Internet experiences," Christopher Dixon, an analyst at Paine Webber in New York, said. "Should that take place, then all the business models of Internet start-ups become accelerated. That results in higher valuations as a whole."
The widespread acceptance of this view explains why the Nasdaq composite index rose 167.05 points, or 4.3 percent, on the day. Internet stocks surged: Yahoo shares rose 7 percent, CMGI jumped 11.4 percent and Doubleclick climbed 5.6 percent.
So, to Internet enthusiasts, the merger of the nation's leading Internet company with a top media group, which will have a market value of $350 billion, is epochal. It opens wide the door to the Web; many more people will become users at a much faster rate than had previously been estimated. And it places sky-high Internet valuations on what had been an earthbound media company.
Stratospheric Internet valuations come with a cost, however. These stocks trade with much greater swings than so-called old-economy shares. Before the announcement, Time Warner's shares had roughly the same volatility as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. AOL, by comparison, trades with almost twice as much volatility. Time Warner shareholders can expect a wilder ride than they are used to.
Under the terms of the deal, each Time Warner share is to be exchanged for 1.5 shares of the combined company, while AOL stockholders will receive one share. AOL shareholders will wind up with 55 percent of the company, and the transaction will be free of taxes to all shareholders. The deal is expected to close by the end of the year; the stock in the combined company is to be traded under the symbol AOL on the New York Stock Exchange.
Because the deal does not carry a set price for Time Warner shares, investors who choose to hold the stock for the long haul must not only believe in the Internet as a place to shop and gather information, but also as a profitable business.
Not every analyst is willing to go that far. Yesterday, some recalled Time Inc.'s $14 billion acquisition a decade ago of Warner. In that deal, Time had to take on $11 billion in debt. During that era, enormous debt loads were justified for companies in search of growth through acquisition. But the Time Warner merger turned out to be the final deal of the debt-crazed 1980's, and the new company's stock suffered tremendously.
This time around, the deal springs from investor ardor for Internet stocks, regardless of whether they are profitable. Carol Levenson, a fixed-income analyst whose daily market letter, "Gimme Credit," covers investment-grade bonds, said this of the deal: "What's most striking to me is neither company had much in the way of old-fashioned profit and now will have even less, thanks to an astonishing amount of good will."
Indeed, one of the more spectacular figures ever to emerge from a merger comes out of this one. The premium AOL is paying Time Warner shareholders beyond the value of the media company's assets -- an intangible asset known as good will in accounting parlance -- approaches $160 billion, according to Robert Willens, managing director of tax and accounting at Lehman Brothers.
As stocks have rocketed and mergers have proliferated, good will resulting from high-priced acquisitions has grown. But $160 billion in good will -- including such intangibles as a company's brand names or the loyalty of its customers -- is so huge that it puts this deal in a class by itself.
According to generally accepted accounting principles, the combined company will have to take a charge of nearly $2 a share against earnings for each of the next 20 years to cover the good will. Such a figure could easily consume both companies' earnings; in the most recent 12 months, Time Warner and AOL together made 52 cents a share.
But investors, instructed by analysts to ignore such amortization charges as irrelevant, seem unconcerned by the prospect. In fact, some analysts say the deal is likely to become a model for what a company with little in hard assets can pay to acquire another company in a similar circumstance.
"I don't think Time Warner's good will is a wasting asset," Mr. Willens said. "You can justify ignoring good will amortization if you acknowledge that Time Warner's good will is an appreciating asset."
Of course, the asset has to keep appreciating for investors not to care that earnings are wiped out by good will charges. And such appreciation is never guaranteed.
Moreover, the argument that investors should ignore good will may lose some punch by the end of 2000, just about when the AOL Time Warner deal is expected to close.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, which oversees and promulgates accounting guidelines, is expected to propose a new standard near year-end that will require companies to be much more explicit in assigning values to intangible assets. Jack Ciesielski, president of R. G. Associates in Baltimore and editor of The Analyst's Accounting Observer, said, "If this deal doesn't get done until late in the year, the companies may be falling under new rules regarding intangible assets that might be harder for investors to ignore."
For example, if a big chunk of that good will turns out to be the value of film libraries or customer lists -- things that produce revenue -- investors might find them hard to ignore. Anything that generates revenue should have an associated expense, which gets charged against earnings. And if earnings are reduced, the stock could be assigned a lower valuation.
Then again, earnings have never mattered much for Internet stocks. Until they do, Time Warner shareholders may enjoy their inclusion in this very exclusive club. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; AOL TIME WARNER AOL INC (96%); TIME INC (93%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (55%); DOUBLECLICK INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; AOL TIME WARNER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEVISION CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MERGERS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); STARTUPS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BROADBAND (76%); INTERNET VIDEO (76%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (71%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



273 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Toys 'R' Us Hires F.A.O. Chief, Hoping to Coax Back Customers

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
Toys "R" Us Inc., struggling to rouse its sleepy business, has hired the top executive at F. A. O. Schwarz to become its new president and chief executive, the company plans to announce today.
The appointment of John Eyler, F. A. O.'s chairman and chief executive, comes at a critical time for Toys "R" Us. The company, which has been operating without a permanent chief executive since August, had a dismal Christmas despite Pokemon madness. And it expects to miss earnings forecasts for the full year at a time when the strong economy has propelled sales at other big chains. 
 Now, the company is looking to Mr. Eyler, 52, to draw children and their parents back to its warehouselike stores. A longtime retail executive with strong merchandising skills and experience running a respected rival chain, he seems to be the perfect fit.
But F. A. O. and Toys "R" Us are about as different as diamonds and cubic zirconia. Unabashedly upscale, F. A. O. is known for its exclusive items and premium-priced playthings. Toys "R" Us is more associated with coupon clipping and endless aisles of board games and Barbies. The companies also differ by sheer size. The much larger Toys "R" Us has revenue of $11.2 billion and operates about 1,160 toy stores compared with F. A. O.'s revenue of about $200 million and 42 outlets.
To succeed in his new position, Mr. Eyler will need to borrow F. A. O.'s entrepreneurial culture and knack for running stores that push fun as much as Furby. But he must do so within a cost structure that enables the chain to compete with Wal-Mart and its rock-bottom pricing. Tweaking its operating strategy is a task that has worn out many an executive of Toys "R" Us. Mr. Eyler replaces Robert C. Nakasone, who was in the job just a year and a half when he resigned abruptly in August under pressure from the board. His departure came just months after the company's president and chief operating officer stepped down just one year into that job and its president for merchandising and marketing left with no explanation. Also last year, the executive who had been tapped to run Toys "R" Us' then fledgling Internet unit, abruptly backed out of that job.
Michael Goldstein, Toys "R" Us' chairman, who has been operating as interim chief executive, said yesterday that he was confident that the company finally had the right leader in place.
"What was very attractive about John is he has been a C.E.O. at several companies, so he has been a C.E.O. in a variety of different environments and so that was important," Mr. Goldstein said.
The company, based in Paramus, N.J., also wanted an executive with a strong grasp of electronic commerce to help improve its inconsistent Web site operation. The company's stumble with e-commerce was vividly illustrated when it announced three days before Christmas that it could not handle the volume of orders and would be unable to deliver some holiday gifts on time.
"For many people we interviewed this was really a shortcoming," Mr. Goldstein said. At F. A. O., though, Mr. Eyler, had successfully run a catalog business and had four years of e-commerce experience.
Toys "R" Us first approached Mr. Eyler in 1992, but he was uninterested because the company already had a well-oiled management machine in the co-founder Charles Lazarus, Mr. Goldstein and Mr. Nakasone.
Mr. Eyler "was also our leading candidate two years ago to become president and he turned us down," Mr. Goldstein said. "It took the offer of being C.E.O. to get John to come here."
Mr. Eyler will join the Toys "R" Us' board and executive committee. He will replace Mr. Goldstein, 58, as chairman in a year.
At F. A. O., which Mr. Eyler joined in 1992 as chief executive, he is credited with updating the chain's tired stores and shedding unprofitable ones, creating a playland atmosphere with store displays and superior customer service and increasing the amount of exclusive items the chain sells to 70 percent from 30 percent. Not that there were not bumps on his watch.
F. A. O., a division of Vendex N.V. of Amsterdam, has seen its profits dwindle in recent years and has had several quarters of operating losses. The declines were attributed to a lack of popular products in some years and some licensing deals that did not result in the hit toys the company had expected. Mr. Eyler said, though, that in 1999 the company's results had generally improved while its revenue had increased.
Before joining F. A. O., Mr. Eyler was chief executive for three years of the Hartmarx Corporation's specialty men's clothing stores in Chicago. Before that, he was chairman and chief executive for six years of Mainstreet, a family apparel unit of Federated Department Stores. He was also with May Department Stores for 12 years in management capacities from 1979 until 1983.
At Toys "R" Us, Mr. Eyler said his first priorities would be to bring a sense of focus to the chain. "To me, looking at a company like Toys, the first order of business is to agree on strategy and tightly focus on a very finite number of priorities."
Specifically, Mr. Eyler intends to further refine Toys "R" Us' new store format, called C-3, which it is currently introducing, distinguish the stores' merchandise mix to set the chain apart from the deep discounters and improve customer service. He also will try to beef up the company's Internet business, which operates toysrus.com.
Indeed, it will take all of the tricks in his toy chest to ease Toys "R" Us' growing pains. The company had a surprisingly weak holiday, reporting flat sales of $4.4 billion for the period and a 2 percent decline in sales at stores in the United States open at least a year.
What is more, the company said earlier this month that, excluding a larger-than-anticipated 20 cents to 25 cents loss associated with its Internet business, it expects to earn $1.10 a share for the fiscal year ended Jan. 29, instead of the almost $1.40 a share analysts had forecast. Toys "R" Us blames problems with its Web site, shortages of popular products like Game Boy and the Amazing Amy doll, and tough competition.
In recent years, the chain has been severely hurt by Wal-Mart, which overtook its position as the top toy seller in 1998 by snatching customers with the lure of one-stop shopping and cheap prices. Toys "R" Us had also been hurt by a much smaller foe, the Internet toy seller eToys, which realized early the value of getting in on the dot.com trend as consumers grew more comfortable with shopping online.
Investors, fed up with its missteps, have dumped Toys "R" Us stock. The shares closed yesterday at $12.625, down roughly half from its 52-week high of $25.75 in June.
"The fact that they blew it again during the holiday season with essentially much of the old management team, notably with the former C.E.O. at the helm is not new news," said Ursula Moran, an analyst with Sanford Bernstein. "It is confirmation that the company has got some big problems they have obviously not fixed."
Even so, some analysts said, Toys "R" Us has made some progress in improving its business. "They have the new C-3 format and those stores did outperform the traditional stores during the holiday," said Sally Wallick, an analyst with Legg Mason Wood Walker. "They did make progress on that front. Also, they had a very strong third quarter going into the fourth quarter. They had good momentum and that obviously did not carry through to the holiday. That was disappointing but it was encouraging to see them be able to drive their sales and business earlier in the year."
Even with the publicity about its e-commerce problems over the holiday season, Toys "R" Us still shipped $39 million in goods sold over the Internet during the holiday and became one of the top five e-commerce sites for for the five weeks ended Dec. 26, 1999, according to Media Metrix.
Now, as it seeks to transform itself into a leading "brick and click" retailer, Mr. Eyler said progress will not happen overnight but will be noticeable in the months ahead.
"There are so many strengths and this is not a business in distress," Mr. Eyler said. "It is a business with very sound economics and a very powerful brand and what we need to do is focus on the priorities that will help the performance of the business to become more positive."
If not, Mr. Eyler may find himself the latest Toys "R" Us executive without a seat in the company's game of corporate musical chairs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Eyler says his priority will be to bring a sense of focus to Toys "R" Us. (Nina Barnett for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: TOY (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (96%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC; SCHWARZ, F A O (STORE) TOYS 'R' US INC (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYS 'R' US INC; SCHWARZ, F A O (STORE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; TOYS EXECUTIVES (93%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (88%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (79%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARD GAMES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA; EYLER, JOHN JOHN EYLER (95%); MICHAEL GOLDSTEIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



274 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Opponents of a Golan Heights Deal Rally in Tel Aviv

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, Jan. 10

 BODY:
Taking over a plaza associated with the peace camp, about 100,000 Israelis packed Rabin Square tonight to protest a withdrawal from the Golan Heights that would be a likely component of a peace deal with Syria.
As Prime Minister Ehud Barak prepared to fly home from an intensive round of negotiations in West Virginia, scores of busloads of yeshiva students, Golan residents and retired Russian immigrants jammed the heart of secular, dovish Tel Aviv to send him -- and President Clinton -- a few messages. 
 "The Golan stays, Barak goes," read one of the many banners in Hebrew, English and Russian that fluttered as old-fashioned Zionist rallying songs -- "I Have No Other Land" was one -- reverberated through the cold, wet night.
Although their campaign to keep the Golan is young, organizers were aiming for a crowd to rival the 400,000 Israelis who turned out to protest Israel's invasion of Lebanon in 1982. But they fell short of their goal.
Still, there is no doubt that they beat the peace camp off the starting block. Theirs is the loudest public opinion that Mr. Barak is returning to face: a budding nationwide campaign to oppose a potential peace agreement if the price is surrendering the Golan Heights, which Israel seized from Syria in the Arab-Israeli war of 1967.
Since Mr. Barak, a former general, pledged in his campaign to put the agreement to a vote in Israel's first-ever referendum on peace, public opinion is as much his battlefield right now as the negotiating tables in the United States.
But his supporters prefer not to mobilize until there is an agreement that spells out what security arrangements and provisions for normal relations Israel will get in exchange for the land.
"It's just too early and too abstract, and our people are not motivated yet to go into the streets in massive numbers," said Janet Aviad, a spokeswoman for Peace Now in Israel. "People from the Golan Heights are out because they smell an agreement around the corner and it's their home.
"We're happy about peace, but even for us, giving up the Golan is going to be painful. It's going to be tough. The Israeli public has been educated for the last 30 years that the Golan Heights is vital for security."
Addressing the crowd tonight, Eli Malka, chairman of the Golan residents committee, intentionally echoed the words, "Good-bye, friend," that Mr. Clinton used to bid farewell to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin at his funeral.
"Don't intervene, friend," Mr. Malka said, his voice booming through the square, where the huge peace rally that ended in Mr. Rabin's assassination was held in 1995.
Some Israeli peace advocates were horrified by what they saw as the manipulation of their place, their hero and their terminology to serve the opposing camp. Proclaiming nostalgia for the old Rabin, not the peacemaker but the general who led Israel in battle, the Golan leaders showed on huge screens a well-known clip from his election campaign in which he said Israel would never come down from the Golan.
Mr. Rabin's government later began the negotiation process with Syria that Mr. Barak and Syria's president, Hafez al-Assad, have revived.
In an interview before the rally, Dalia Itzik, the Environment Minister and a leading member of Mr. Barak's Labor/One Israel Party, said the opponents' slogan proclaiming "Peace With the Golan" was cynical.
"I also prefer peace with the Golan," Ms. Itzkik said. "But there's no such animal who can make peace with Syria and keep the Golan. Not even God can promise that."
During the rally, Tamir Hezzi sat cross-legged on the pavement reading a Talmud propped up on his backpack. Smiling broadly, Mr. Hezzi, who was bused in from his religious school in Bat Yam, said he was "learning here on the sidewalk because it strengthens our people, such study."
As a type, Mr. Hezzi, a yeshiva student, does not represent the Golan settlers, who tend to be secular and who voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Barak despite his pledge to make peace with Syria. Mr. Hezzi would be a more likely supporter of the West Bank settlers, who are more religious and attached to the land for its biblical roots.
The Golan settlers are divided now. But even those who sponsored the rally tonight do not feel entirely comfortable relying on the rightist movement of the West Bank settlers for their organizational strength, fund-raising coffers and ability to summon a crowd.
Tonight the square was filled with yeshiva students and West Bank residents. On Sunday, Israeli television interviewed a yeshiva student who said they were being asked to keep their skullcaps hidden under baseball caps. But there was no hiding the sea of yarmulkes in Rabin Square.
Similarly, the Golan residents turned down a request by Ariel Sharon, head of the opposition Likud Party, to speak at the rally. "It wasn't specifically about Sharon," said Uri Heitner, a spokesman for the residents committee. "We didn't want the demonstration to take on a right-wing character. Rather, we want it to be a popular, national demonstration."
But the politicians on the stage did not represent a broad spectrum. They were all conservative, including two members of Mr. Barak's cabinet, Natan Sharansky, leader of the Russian immigrant party Yisrael B'Aliya, and Yitzhak Levy, leader of the National Religious Party.
Both have said they will withdraw their parties from the government if a deal ceding the Golan is signed. Mr. Sharansky has said that Russian immigrants, from experience, cannot trust a "dictator," which is how he describes Mr. Assad, to keep his word.
Holding a Russian-language banner supplied by Mr. Sharansky's party, Yona Doctorovich, a photographer from Safad in northern Israel, said: "We're giving up land and what are we getting? A piece of paper?" He extended flat palms and raised his eyes skyward. "We're Russians. We understand the value of such paper."
A retired clothier who lives outside Tel Aviv, Naftali Yosef was born in Syria. "I know them," he said. Mr. Yosef clutched an umbrella, which he used for emphasis.
"There's an existential problem,"' he continued. "We see that Syria is weak militarily and economically, and its government is not stable. It's like a lion with rotten teeth. So, what? If we make peace there on the Golan and they get new American weapons and international financing, the lion will be strong again."
An immigrant from Louisiana some 30 years ago, Chanan Lemann, who lives in the West Bank settlement of Efrat, said he was a peacenik. "I spent 20 years in the army and I never killed anybody, and I'm really happy about that," he said. "I want to live with my neighbors in peace. But Assad has attacked us three times, and before we give him a prize for his aggressive behavior, show me he's changed."
Mr. Lemann's son, Daniel, 13, added, "If Clinton wants us to give the Golan to the Syrians, I think he should give back to the Indians in America first.'
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a huge rally in Tel Aviv, banners in Hebrew and Russian opposed any eviction of Israeli settlers from the Golan Heights. Syria is demanding the return of the Israeli-held territory as a condition for peace. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; TEL AVIV (ISRAEL); SYRIA; GOLAN HEIGHTS; ISRAEL (97%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); LEBANON (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (91%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (96%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA PEACE PROCESS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); REFERENDUMS (64%); RIOTS (61%); 

PERSON: SONTAG, DEBORAH EHUD BARAK (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



275 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

AOL Deal for Time Warner Spurs Stocks to Big Gains
Stock prices posted sharp gains, spurred in part by America Online's $165 billion takeover of Time Warner. The deal touched off demand for entertainment and Internet shares as investors piled into companies that might be merger candidates.
The Nasdaq composite index recorded its biggest one-day point gain, rising 167.05 points, or 4.3 percent, to 4,049.67. Led by Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M. and Intel, the Dow rose 49.64 points, to 11,572.20. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.13 points, or 1.12 percent, to 1,457.60. Page C17. 

U.S. Steps Up Effort on China Deal
President Clinton promised to wage an all-out campaign to persuade Congress to back a landmark trade deal with China, and administration officials have enlisted numerous corporate chief executives for what they describe as the most aggressive pro-trade lobbying effort since the United States opened its borders to free trade with Canada and Mexico. C4.
 
SBC Seeks to Offer Long Distance
Trying to follow Bell Atlantic into the long-distance market, SBC Communications asked federal regulators for permission to sell long-distance service in Texas. SBC's application will probably not be resolved until April, but many analysts say the petition stands an excellent chance of approval. C2.
 
Microsoft and Caldera Settle Suit
Microsoft has agreed to pay Caldera an undisclosed sum to settle a $1.6 billion antitrust suit that had accused Microsoft of trying to undercut a rival operating system. Microsoft said it would take a charge of about 3 cents a share, or at least $154 million, against earnings in the quarter ended March 31. C2.
 
Alcoa Posts 53% Increase in Profit
Alcoa, the world's biggest aluminum maker, said its fourth-quarter profit jumped 53 percent, driven by higher prices for the metal and declining costs. C6.
 
Aetna Streamlines Global Units
Aetna said it would combine its global operations into two main units serving its health and financial businesses as it tries to raise its lagging share price. C6.
 
G.M. to Buy Remaining 50% of Saab
General Motors said it would buy the half of Saab that it does not already own for an undisclosed amount. The move could bring new customers into the G.M. fold and reduce European production costs. C6.
 
Brazil to Limit Foreign Ownership
In a display of concern over the growing influence of foreign banks, Brazil's central bank sought to reassure the nation's banking industry that it would limit the expansion of overseas banks in Brazil, Latin America's biggest economy. Over the last few years, an increasing number of financial businesses have become controlled by foreigners. C4.
 
Wal-Mart Plans More British Stores
Wal-Mart Stores took another step in its European expansion by announcing plans to open 12 stores in the Asda chain of British supermarkets, which it bought six months ago. C4.
 
Security Experts Seek Extortionist
Computer security experts are trying to track an extortionist who last month demanded $100,000 from an Internet music retailer and then, when his threat was rejected, began posting stolen credit card numbers on line. A20.
 
Philip Morris Has New Technology
Philip Morris is expected to announce today that it has developed technology that might reduce the number of fires started by cigarettes, a move that comes more than a decade after lawmakers and safety experts said the tobacco industry could make such products. A20.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,572.20 up 49.64
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.59% up 0.05
The euro -- $1.026 down 0.002
The dollar -- 105.20 yen down 0.01
 
Graph shows the NASDAQ daily closes for the week ending yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); T (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (63%); AOL (NYSE) (59%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (59%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (59%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AT&T INC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (63%); AOL INC (59%); INTEL CORP (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); ALCOA INC (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); CHINA DEAL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINA DEAL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MERGERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LOBBYING (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



276 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Israel-Syria Peace Talks To Resume After Break
The United States said it would reconvene the negotiations on Jan. 19 to avoid losing the momentum built up in the eight days of talks that ended yesterday. The decision by the United States, which is acting as mediator, reflected an upbeat sense that some progress had been made. A1 

About 100,000 Israelis packed a plaza in Tel Aviv to protest a withdrawal from the Golan Heights that would be a likely component of a peace deal with Syria. A6
 
Russia Resumes Grozny Battle
Russian forces battled to restore control behind their front lines after surprise attacks by Chechen rebels. The Russian defense minister announced that he was lifting the suspension of air and artillery attacks on Grozny, the Chechen capital, to resume a full-scale offensive, and imposed an evening curfew on the entire rebellious republic. A8
 
Putin Names New Deputy
Russia's acting president, Vladimir V. Putin, selected an experienced debt negotiator, Finance Minister Mikhail Kasyanov, 42, as top deputy prime minister and shunted aside two high- ranking officials, Pavel P. Borodin and Nikolai Y. Aksyonenko, who were closely linked with former President Boris N. Yeltsin. The moves further put Mr. Putin's own stamp on the Kremlin administration and signaled the importance he attaches to Russia's relations with its Western creditors. A8
 
Trucking Protest in France
Commercial truck owners blockaded highways and border crossings throughout France, protesting the rising cost of gasoline and the shorter workweek that the government has imposed on businesses with more than 20 employees. The protest caused huge traffic jams and left thousands of truckers from other European countries fuming at the side of the road. A4
 
Analyzing Missile Base Images
The first detailed public images of a secretive North Korean missile base, taken by a private spy satellite, show a small rural site. Analysts disagreed over whether the site was a danger. A8
 
Gore Promises Disease Money
Vice President Al Gore, presiding over an unusual Security Council session called to debate the AIDS crisis in Africa, said the United States would add $150 million to next year's budget to help combat that and other infectious diseases in the poorest countries. The pledge of more money is subject to approval by Congress. A3
 
Ecuadorean Opposed on Dollar
A decision by President of Ecuador Jamil Mahuad to try to solve an economic crisis by adopting the United States dollar as the country's new currency brought stepped-up calls from opposition groups for his ouster. The groups contended that the move would lead to widespread impoverishment. A4
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A12-23
 
New Paper May Reduce Risk of Cigarette Fires
Philip Morris is expected to announce today that it has developed a new type of paper that may reduce fires started by cigarettes. Company officials said initial tests showed that cigarettes using the new paper did not taste any different, did not burn differently when puffed and that the paper did not present added health risks. The company plans to test the paper in its Merit brand. Government data shows that in 1997, the last year available, about 900 people, including 140 children, died in cigarette-related fires. A20
 
Judge Acts Against I.N.S.
A Florida judge granted temporary custody to relatives of Elian Gonzalez in Miami until a guardianship hearing in March. The judge acted despite a ruling by immigration authorities that the 6-year-old refugee be returned to his father in Cuba this week. An I.N.S. spokesman said the agency would not comment until it reviewed the judge's order. A12
 
Fighting Crime in Cyberspace
Computer security experts said they were trying to track a computer extortionist who demanded $100,000 from an Internet music retailer last month and then, when his threat was rejected, began posting stolen credit card numbers on the Internet. In a speech at Stanford, Attorney General Janet Reno proposed a new national crime-fighting network, to be called Lawnet, to deal with the "dark side" of the Internet. A20
 
Health Coverage for Children
Enrollment in a new health insurance program for children doubled last year, to nearly two million, and President Clinton will propose a $2.7 billion initiative to sign up more children, officials said. Enrollment is still far short of the five million children Mr. Clinton set as a goal when he signed the bill in 1997, and Census Bureau surveys show that the number of children without health insurance increased to 11 million in 1998, the last year available. A16
 
Complaint Against the G.O.P.
A complaint filed with the Justice Department by a group of South Carolina voters accused their state's Republican Party of deliberately closing polling places in black areas in the last two presidential primaries, and asked federal officials to prevent a recurrence in next month's primary. The party's executive director denied that race played a role in determining which precincts would have their usual polling places open. A12
 
Bradley Faults Gore Priorities
Bill Bradley opened a new line of attack against Vice President Al Gore, asserting that Mr. Gore had misplaced his priorities by proposing to raise military spending more than spending on education. A22
 
McCain to Offer Fiscal Plan
Senator John McCain is expected to offer a detailed plan today for using the projected budget surpluses, proposing a middle-class tax cut and a program to shore up Social Security individual investment accounts. A23
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Chief Judge Orders Inquiry Of Parties' Role in Judiciary
Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye said she would appoint a special investigator to look into whether judges favor lawyers with strong political party ties in making lucrative court assignments throughout the state. B1
 
'Green' Building Incentives
Governor Pataki plans to propose a tax break today for builders who construct or renovate buildings in ways that cut pollution, waste, energy use and indoor air contamination. B3
 
New Tactic Against Sex Shops
The Giuliani administration has issued a regulation that would let the city shut down video stores where pornographic titles make up a vast majority of sales. Civil libertarians and lawyers for sex shops predicted that state courts would strike down the new approach. B3
 
On Schools and Gay Marriage
Hillary Rodham Clinton suggested that Mayor Giuliani's struggles with top schools officials had undermined public education in New York City. She also said she supported full domestic partnership benefits for same-sex couples, but that she opposed gay marriage. B8
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Findings of Laser Investigation
Dr. Victor H. Reis, a former assistant secretary of energy and the principal architect of the $4.5 billion program to ensure the safety and reliability of nuclear stockpiles, bears responsibility for cost overruns and scheduling delays for a colossal laser in California, a panel concluded. A20
 
Gene-Mapping Project
The Celera Corporation of Rockville, Md., said it was about to begin the final stage of its project to decode the human genome. F3
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-30
 
New and Old Media Team Up
America Online, the company that brought the Internet to the masses, has agreed to buy the largest traditional media company, Time Warner, for $165 billion. It would be the biggest merger in history and the best evidence yet that old and new media are converging. Stephen M. Case, 41, the chairman and chief executive of America Online, will be chairman of the new company. A1
 
The merger would create a colossus that could force competitors, like Walt Disney, AT&T and Microsoft, to reconsider their strategies. C1
 
Stock prices posted sharp gains, spurred in part by the America Online-Time Warner deal. C15
 
Toy Chain Getting New Chief
Toys "R" Us is expected to announce that its new president and chief executive will be John Eyler, the top executive at F. A. O. Schwarz. C1
 
G.M. Acquiring Rest of Saab
General Motors will buy the half of Saab that it does not already own. C6
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION B10
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
ARTS E1-12
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: The biggest media merger yet; action on AIDS in Africa; coping with teacher shortages.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E10
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (50%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); ECUADOR (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS USA (50%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); ECUADOR (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (66%); APPROVALS (66%); US DOLLAR (66%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (62%); ESPIONAGE (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (61%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (61%); TOBACCO MFG (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); CURRENCIES (60%); CURFEW (53%); GASOLINE (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



277 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: McCain to Propose Middle-Class Tax Cut and Private Accounts Within Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
Senator John McCain of Arizona on Tuesday will present his first comprehensive plan for apportioning the spoils of the nation's current prosperity, calling for a middle-class tax cut and a program to shore up Social Security through the establishment of individual investment accounts, his advisers said today.
Mr. McCain, the leading challenger to Gov. George W. Bush of Texas in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, will set out his proposals in a speech in New Hampshire at a time when his campaign is trying to shift attention away from questions about whether he pressured regulators on behalf of campaign contributors. 
 The plan's centerpiece is an expansion of the 15 percent income tax bracket, the lowest, to cover higher income levels. It would also double the child credit, to $1,000, reduce the so-called marriage penalty paid by many two-income couples, create new tax incentives for savings and cut inheritance taxes on multimillion-dollar estates.
The plan is Mr. McCain's effort to draw a distinction with Mr. Bush over how best to use the projected federal budget surplus, one of the central issues in the campaign in both parties.
Mr. Bush has focused on a big tax cut, valued by his campaign at $483 billion over five years. Mr. McCain's tax cut is half the size of Mr. Bush's, $240 billion over five years, and Mr. McCain would use much more of the surplus in an effort to ensure Social Security's long-term solvency through the most sweeping overhaul in the retirement system's 65-year history.
Unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain also specifically allocates money to help Medicare, which like Social Security faces a financial shortfall as the population ages, and for reducing the national debt.
"I'm very much in favor of tax cuts for middle-income and lower-income Americans," Mr. McCain said tonight in the Republican debate in Michigan. "I believe we must save Social Security, we must pay down the debt, we have to make an investment in Medicare. For us to put all of the surplus into tax cuts, I think is not a conservative effort."
Mr. McCain has discussed the outlines of his economic program extensively, and his tax plan largely tracks a proposal he made last summer. But he intends to lay out new details on Tuesday, his aides said.
Among them are a proposal to pay for much of his tax cut by closing $150 billion worth of specific corporate tax loopholes over the next five years, a plan sure to draw fire from the affected industries, and his call for workers to have the option of investing at least 20 percent of their Social Security payroll taxes in private accounts, an approach bitterly opposed by liberal Democrats.
The plan also seems certain to draw Mr. McCain deeper into a debate with Mr. Bush over whose plan does more to help lower- and middle-income people, a subject on which they have been trading accusations for the last week.
"I have laid out a plan that is going to cut the rates on everybody in America, a plan that is conservative and a plan that is compassionate," Mr. Bush said during tonight's debate.
Independent analysts said Mr. McCain's proposal appeared to be somewhat less tilted to the wealthiest taxpayers than Mr. Bush's plan. But they said it also appeared to be slightly less beneficial to people in the bottom 60 percent of taxpayers, those with incomes under $39,000 a year.
Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a research organization that is often critical of Republican tax proposals, said a preliminary analysis of Mr. McCain's plan showed that it would give 34.9 percent of the tax cuts to people in the top 5 percent of income, $130,000 and above. Mr. Bush's plan would give 52.6 percent of its benefits to the same group.
Mr. McCain's plan, Mr. McIntyre said, would give 6.7 percent of its benefits to people in the bottom 60 percent of the income spectrum, compared with 11 percent under Mr. Bush's plan.
Mr. McCain's advisers said his plan would benefit a family of four with income of $40,000 more than Mr. Bush's plan. But Mr. Bush's campaign was renewing its attack even before Mr. McCain formally unveiled his plan.
"The bottom line is that people will pay more in taxes under a McCain administration than under a Bush administration, no matter how you cut it," said Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's spokesman. As for Mr. McCain's assertion that his plan does more for lower- and middle-income people, "It's hard to see how the McCain plan accomplishes that goal," Mr. Fleischer said.
Under Mr. McCain's plan, the ceiling for the 15 percent bracket would rise to $70,000 from $43,050 for couples filing jointly and to $35,000 from $25,750 for single people.
Its primary benefits would therefore go to people currently in the 28 percent tax bracket -- couples with income between $43,050 and $104,050 and single people with income between $25,750 and $62,450 -- although it would also help people in higher income brackets.
The McCain plan would limit the benefits of its proposed new tax incentives for savings to lower- and middle-income people by restricting it to taxpayers in the 15 percent bracket.
But it is Social Security that could prove to be the most politically sensitive component of Mr. McCain's plan. Like Mr. McCain, Mr. Bush generally favors establishing private investment accounts within the retirement system, and would use all of the estimated $2 trillion Social Security surplus over the next decade to help do so.
But Mr. Bush would allocate less of the non-Social Security surplus to overhauling the retirement system than Mr. McCain.
And the Republican approach is sure to face withering criticism from most Democrats, who say that Social Security should remain an ironclad commitment on the part of the government to retirees, and should not subject individuals to the risks of investing in the financial markets.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain of Arizona, who will offer his plan for using a budget surplus in a speech today, met with his economic advisers Maya MacGuineas and Kevin A. Hassett yesterday in Grand Rapids, Mich. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); SOCIAL SECURITY (US) TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); ESTATE TAX (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); ESTATE PLANNING (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); MEDICARE (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); MARRIAGE (68%); 

PERSON: MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



278 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris Says It Has A Safer Paper

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
The Philip Morris Companies is expected to announce today that it has developed technology that might reduce the number of fires started by cigarettes, a move that comes more than a decade after lawmakers and fire safety experts said the tobacco industry could make such products.
The company plans to test market the new paper in Merit cigarettes, one of its smaller brands, and, if it proves successful, could expand its use to Marlboro, the nation's leading cigarette. 
 Cigarette makers have long faced calls to reduce the propensity of cigarettes to start fires, because about 25 percent of fatal residential fires start when a smoker falls asleep in bed or a lighted cigarette is dropped on a couch or chair. In 1997 about 900 people, including 140 children, were killed in such fires, according to the most recent figures from the federal Consumer Product Safety Commission.
In an interview yesterday, Philip Morris officials said the new technology involved placing thin layers of extra paper at points along a cigarette. The rings of paper reduce the amount of oxygen entering the cigarette, slowing down the rate at which it burns and the heat it generates, the officials said.
"The paper rings act like speed bumps" to slow down a burning cigarette, said John Nelson, the company's senior vice president for operations.
Company officials said initial tests had shown that cigarettes using the new paper did not taste different, burn differently when puffed or present any added health risks.
In interviews yesterday, several lawmakers, regulators and fire-safety experts said that although they welcomed the development, it was long overdue. They said Philip Morris's own documents showed that the company had conducted extensive research in the mid-1980's to develop a so-called fire-safe cigarette, even producing samples that it said were "acceptable to consumers." The company dropped the project, however, saying it was not commercially feasible.
Ever since, Philip Morris and other cigarette makers have battled efforts to legally require that cigarettes be made less likely to cause fires. They also challenged efforts by government scientists in the late 1980's to begin a system to measure the fire propensity of different brands and argued that flammable upholstery fabrics were the real problem with residential fires.
Andrew McGuire, the executive director of the Trauma Foundation, a group in San Francisco that has long advocated for fire-safe cigarettes, said the move by Philip Morris had to be weighed against all the lives that had been lost over the last decade in cigarette-related fires.
"I find this all disingenuous, to say the least," Mr. McGuire said. "It is nice that they have done it. It is tragic that all those had to die in the meantime."
Representative Joe Moakley, Democrat of Massachusetts, said that since 1979, when a house fire killed a family in his district, he had been trying to get legislation passed to improve the fire safety of cigarettes.
"I always believed that a company that makes this torch should be responsible for its final destiny," Mr. Moakley said.
Cliff Lilly, Philip Morris's vice president for technology, said that around 1988, company researchers developed the idea for the banded paper used in the new cigarettes.
Since then, Mr. Lilly said, the company has been working to determine whether the idea was feasible in large-scale production.
Cigarette paper is produced on presses that generate enough paper in one minute to make 310,000 cigarettes. And the process of applying thin, evenly spaced lines of added material across cigarette paper as those presses are running is extremely complex, Mr. Lilly said.
Philip Morris officials said the propensity of the new cigarettes to start fires varied with the fabric tested. However, in one test developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, cigarettes using the new paper ignited a thick cotton canvas 4 times in 96 tries, Mr. Lilly said. In contrast, a standard cigarette ignited the cotton material in 70 of 96 trials.
One hurdle for the technology is that the new paper will at times cause the cigarette to extinguish.
Philip Morris officials said they had met last week with officials of the Consumer Product Safety Commission to discuss the new technology.
The commission participated in two large studies of fire-safe cigarettes in the last two decades, including a 1987 review that found that such products were technically and economically feasible.
Five cigarette brands have already met fire-safety criteria established by government researchers: More, Virginia Slims, Capri Light and Eve Lights. Most are filtered, small-diameter cigarettes, which among other things are less densely packed with tobacco than standard cigarettes.
Ann Brown, the commission's chairwoman, said Philip Morris executives had visited the agency last week. She said they spoke only generally about their decision to test market the new technology and did not share technical data.
"We don't know if the cigarette made by Philip Morris will really work," Ms. Brown said. "These claims need to be independently evaluated to determine whether the cigarette does what the company says it does."
Company officials said they planned to start test marketing Merit cigarettes using the new paper in cities including Buffalo, Denver and Hartford. They declined to say when the paper would be used in all Merit cigarettes or expanded to other company brands.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Addressing a Fire Hazard"
Philip Morris is experimenting with a new type of cigarette paper containing bands of extra paper that slow the rate of burning. In tests, the lower temperatures made the cigarettes less likely to ignite a test fabric, a thick piece of canvas.
(Source: Philip Morris)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (98%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COS ALTRIA GROUP INC (98%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (56%); CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COS CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (56%); CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; CONSUMER PROTECTION; FIRES AND FIREMEN; TESTS AND TESTING CONSUMER LAW (90%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (89%); FIRES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); TEST MARKETING (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); FABRICS (50%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



279 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Israeli-Syrian Peace Talks Recess And Will Reconvene Next Week

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: SHEPHERDSTOWN, W.Va., Jan. 10

 BODY:
The United States said today that it would reconvene the Israeli-Syrian peace talks on Jan. 19 to avoid losing the momentum built up in the eight days of talks that ended here today.
The decision by the United States, which is acting as mediator in the talks, reflected an upbeat sense that some progress was made, and the fear that a longer recess would let opponents of a peace accord in both countries undermine the progress. 
 Before leaving here, Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and Farouk al-Shara, the Syrian foreign minister, agreed to return to the next round. It is unclear whether the talks will resume at Shepherdstown or somewhere else.
"We knew that to preserve whatever's happened, they couldn't go home for long," an American official said today.
Opponents of a deal are already seizing the initiative. In Israel, about 100,000 people gathered yesterday to demonstrate against any return of the Golan Heights to Syria. A return is the linchpin of a deal.
The negotiators' return next week will coincide with a visit to Washington by Yasir Arafat, the leader of the Palestinian Authority. He seems likely to meet with Mr. Barak and Mr. Clinton. The Palestinians and Israelis are moving toward a September deadline for a final peace treaty of their own.
The State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, did his best today to put a positive spin on what clearly was a frustrating week during which President Clinton came here five times to coax the two sides along.
The main accomplishment of the week was their acceptance of an American-drafted "working paper." It defined differences but laid out no new proposals for resolving the most difficult issues. American officials said such proposals would be counterproductive so early.
Mr. Rubin insisted that the diplomatic talk here "lays the groundwork" for bridging differences.
The outstanding disputes include a new border between the two countries, including access to water in the Sea of Galilee and other sources, and the form of a normalized diplomatic and economic relationship between nations that have been in a state of war for half a century.
It was a measure of the slow progress that a committee of Syrian, Israeli and American officials created to discuss the border issues met only once in the eight days, and then only for an hour and a half.
Syrian officials emerged complaining that the Israelis have been vague and noncommittal.
Israeli negotiators said they had to be vague because they had not made any progress on the security questions -- the quid pro quo for the return of the Golan Heights.
The issues of borders and water access have been a source of constant contention in the talks that Mr. Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright held alternatively with the Israelis and Syrians.
Israel wants a border that would at least roughly align with the 1923 demarcation of Palestine, people familiar with the negotiations said. But Syria has long wanted to return to the border that existed before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war. The choice will determine whether Syria has access to the Sea of Galilee.
Throughout the week, Syria argued that the borders had to be settled before any security issues could be discussed, and Israel argued that it could not sell any return of the Golan to its people until security arrangements were resolved.
One official familiar with the talks said Mr. Shara was more amenable in discussions with Mr. Clinton, but would "vent" when alone with Dr. Albright.
Mr. Clinton, who was dining with and then cajoling Mr. Barak and Mr. Shara here until nearly 1 o'clock this morning, said later today: "We are on a track in which the Israelis, the Syrians, I hope soon the Lebanese, and already the Palestinians, have committed themselves to work through these very difficult, longstanding issues over the course of the next two months -- the longstanding commitment between the Palestinians and the Israelis to resolve their business by next month.
"So this will be a time of great tension, where all people will have to search for wisdom and understanding, where there will be great reluctance to open the closed fist and walk out into a new era."
While both sides and a number of Middle East experts were arguing whether the week amounted to success, failure or something in between, the fact is that this round of talks ended just about where American diplomats predicted it would when they began on Jan. 3.
The first round was chiefly about posturing for constituencies back in Israel and Syria, where every rumor about whether Mr. Barak and Mr. Shara had shaken hands was treated as front-page news.
Mr. Rubin said today that they did not actually shake hands, but had joked together in the gymnasium of the Clarion Hotel and conference center here. Observing a woman from the Syrian negotiating team running on a treadmill, Mr. Barak reportedly told Mr. Shara that, like the talks, she was "headed in the right direction but not getting anywhere." One of the leaders -- it is not clear who -- then apparently referred to the talks in commenting that her run was "the beginning of the process."
It is unclear where the next negotiation will take place. It may return here to Shepherdstown, where the negotiators were locked away at the Clarion for a week. But the town's largest institution, Shepherd College, will be back in session, and it is unclear whether the talks can take place without disrupting the school.
Mr. Barak promised during his campaign that any peace treaty with Syria would be put to a national referendum. It is far too early to tell whether that referendum would pass, because Mr. Barak cannot present to the Israeli public a security agreement -- involving Syrian troop pullbacks and enhanced military cooperation from the United States -- before one is negotiated.
But the tens of thousands who demonstrated in Tel Aviv today against any return of the Golan are evidence of the size of the political challenge ahead for Mr. Barak's government. And it explains why the pace of the talks here was so slow: The prime minister could ill afford to appear too eager to give back the land that Israel has long said is the crucial buffer zone for its security.
The Syrians do not have the problems of a referendum, but do face a political and economic challenge that is no less daunting. President Hafez al-Assad sees a chance to regain by negotiation a territory he cannot hope to regain by force, but Syria clearly fears that too much integration with Israel and the West could undercut his iron control and his hopes that his son will succeed him.
If economics controlled the outcome, there is little question a deal would come together. Syria's gross domestic product in 1998 amounted to $15 billion. That is a sixth of the size of Israel's economy, and Israel has 6 million people to Syria's 15 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Minister David Levy of Israeli at Ben-Gurion Airport near Tel Aviv yesterday after returning from the talks in Shepherdstown, W.Va. (Reuters)(pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA PEACE PROCESS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); SHARA, FAROUK AL- (MIN) EHUD BARAK (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



280 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Pay Raise Passes in Trenton On Session's Busy Last Day

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
New Jersey lawmakers saved their most delicate vote for the last day of the legislative term, approving a sizable pay raise for themselves and other government officials today before officially ending the 208th legislative session.
The raise, which Gov. Christine Todd Whitman is expected to sign, stirred up surprisingly little protest among New Jersey voters, who are notoriously cantankerous about taxes and sensitive to issues involving elected officials' perquisites. 
 But lawmakers still moved the pay-increase proposal almost surreptitiously through both chambers of the Legislature. And it was nearly derailed when the Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, withdrew the decisive "yes" vote, saying that the electronic tally board had somehow recorded his vote in error while he was outside the chamber.
The pay raise was ultimately approved despite Mr. DiFrancesco's abstention when Senator Ronald L. Rice, a Democrat of Newark, changed his vote from "no" to "yes."
New Jersey lawmakers will now see the salary for their part-time positions increase to $49,000 a year, from $35,000.
The pay raise came during a frenzied final day in which legislators voted on 153 bills. They approved a proposal to make it illegal for minors to possess tobacco and one to loosen the state's new auto emissions tests.
Despite a ferocious lobbying campaign, the Assembly refused to vote on a measure favored by the rent-to-own industry, which would have allowed rental furniture dealers an exemption from the state's usury laws.
Those votes ended a two-year session in which lawmakers took action on an assortment of pressing issues.
They began their terms in January 1998, just months after Governor Whitman nearly lost re-election because voters were angry that the New Jersey's auto insurance rates were the highest in the nation. After a series of legislative battles, the state last spring enacted a law that forced insurance companies to roll back their rates, a move that reduced premiums about 15 percent for many drivers.
Lawmakers also approved a complicated plan to deregulate New Jersey's $9 billion energy industry, began a substantial property tax rebate program and worked out a financing plan for Governor Whitman's program to preserve one million acres of open space during the next decade.
In addition, the Legislature passed bills mandating trigger locks on all guns sold in the state. It also approved the first restriction on abortion rights in a generation, a law that prevents doctors from performing an abortion on any girl younger than 18 without first notifying at least one of her parents.
Although some of the Legislature's achievements came in lieu of more weighty proposals -- like stricter gun control, more restrictive abortion laws and environmental preservation -- many observers still considered the session productive. In November, 78 incumbents ran in the Assembly elections, and 75 won.
"There are no failures and there are some obvious successes, so it's a pretty good session," said Gerald M. Pomper, a professor of political science at Rutgers. "I guess the voters think so, too, because they returned most of them during the elections in November."
Although both the State Senate and the General Assembly are controlled by Republicans, legislators did clash with Governor Whitman on several crucial issues. In the summer of 1998, they refused to consider her call for an increase in the gasoline tax to pay for road projects and the open space initiative.
Last spring, the Legislature passed the parental notification bill, and for the first time in her political career, the governor signed a bill restricting abortion rights.
But the governor won approval of most of her major legislative priorities. The property tax rebates, auto insurance reduction proposal and open space plan were all victories for Governor Whitman, who can use them to bolster her status as a fiscally responsible Republican with moderate social views.
"It was a tremendously productive session, as far as the governor is concerned," said Pete McDonough, Mrs. Whitman's spokesman.
Democrats were more tempered in their assessment. Joseph V. Doria, the minority leader of the Assembly, said the Republicans tackled major issues but took only incremental steps to address matters like gun control and health insurance reform.
Mr. Doria said the Legislature also left several issues to the next session, which is scheduled to open on Wednesday.
Given the strong economy and relatively contented electorate, many lawmakers said it would have been imprudent for elected officials to seek sweeping changes. Jack Collins, the speaker of the Assembly, who officially closed the session tonight, ended with a prediction that history would also judge the legislative session as productive.
"I think that our accomplishments will be appreciated even more in the future than they are today," Mr. Collins said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ASSEMBLY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ASSEMBLY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: WAGES AND SALARIES; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ELECTIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (85%); TAX LAW (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); FIREARMS (74%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (70%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (70%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (70%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (70%); GUN CONTROL (69%); INSURANCE (67%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); EMISSIONS (65%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); ABORTION (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



281 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA MEGADEAL: THE EUROPEAN;
Takeover May Increase U.S. Control of Internet in Europe

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 10

 BODY:
The Internet may well be borderless, but it remains remarkably American.
Here in Europe, America Online's prospective takeover of Time Warner is likely to accentuate that phenomenon and increase pressure among rivals for alliances and mergers.
America Online and Bertelsmann A.G. of Germany are partners in AOL Europe, which operates local-language networks across the Continent. 
 But the most striking feature about the Internet in Europe is its fragmentation along national boundaries. Telephone companies are often the biggest Internet providers in each country, but few have extended their reach across Europe.
As a result, the closest thing to "pan-European" Internet services are those owned by American companies like Yahoo, Microsoft -- and America Online.
According to data compiled in November by Mediametrix, those three companies controlled three of the five most heavily visited sites in Britain, France and Germany.
America Online has itself had a spotty record, stumbling somewhat last year when British rivals like Freeserve P.L.C. began offering free Internet access.
But America Online soon responded with its own free-service plans, and analysts say the proposed merger is likely to strengthen the company by giving it access to Time Warner's vast store of movies, television shows, books, magazines and news services -- content just as popular in much of Europe as it is in the United States.
"It is very difficult for a European company to come up with a pan-European offering," said Therese Torris, director of European Internet Commerce at Forrester Research's office in Amsterdam.
"On the other hand, there has always existed the import of U.S. culture," she continued. "It has been the case for years in film and television shows. American companies start with U.S. content, and then just translate it. They have content that European consumers are very attuned to."
According to Ms. Torris, about 70 percent of the material available on the Internet still originates in the United States.
Not surprisingly, news of the proposed deal with Time Warner immediately strengthened European media stocks, partly on speculation that they would become takeover targets as well.
Shares of Canal Plus S.A. of France, which operates cable and satellite television services in many European countries, jumped 17.1 percent, to 140 euros, or $144, in Paris today. B Sky B P.L.C., the British pay-television service partly owned by the News Corporation, rose 12.5 percent, to 1,011.5 pence a share, or about $166, in London.
If the merger is completed, America Online would be involved with two of the world's biggest traditional media conglomerates -- Time Warner and Bertelsmann.
Besides Bertelsmann's joint venture with America Online and small stake in the company itself, the German company owns Random House, stakes in European television networks and other properties.
Philip Lakelin, a senior analyst at Analysys Ltd. in Cambridge, England, said that the merger would give America Online the content that would allow it to expand its subscriber base in the face of companies like Freeserve that provide free Internet access.
"What companies like Freeserve really want is to build communities of interest," Mr. Lakelin said. "Obviously having premium content is the way to do that, and I don't think anybody can compete with AOL, Bertelsmann and Time Warner."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "And Who Might Be Next?"
From the conventional media, the information technology industry and the new generation of World Wide Web companies, here are some of the biggest companies -- as measured by revenue or stock value -- that might bear watching if a new wave of mergers and alliances follows the America Online-Time Warner deal.
 
CONVENTIONAL MEDIA
 
Walt Disney
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $74.2 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $23.4 billion
BUSINESSES: Film studios; magazine and book publishing; ABC, ESPN and other broadcasting and cable television properties; music, and Web sites.
 
Viacom (including CBS)*
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $88.8 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $19.6 billion
BUSINESSES: Film studios; CBS, MTV, Infinity Broadcasting and other broadcasting and cable properties; Simon & Schuster book publisher; amusement parks, and Web sites.
 
News Corporation
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $37.3 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $13.7 billion
BUSINESSES: Film studios; Fox broadcasting and cable properties; British Sky Broad-casting; newspapers; HarperCollins book publisher, and Web sites.
 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 
Microsoft
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $579 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $21 billion
BUSINESSES: World's largest independent software company; partner in MSNBC cable channel, and operates MSN.com network of Web sites.
 
AT&T
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $162.4 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $59.6 billion
BUSINESSES: Voice and data com-munications, including nation's No. 1 long-distance and cellular networks; largest cable television operator; controlling investor in Excite@Home Internet access service.
 
MCI Worldcom
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $132.9 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $36.1 billion
BUSINESSES: Voice and data com-munications services for businesses and consumers, including nation's No. 2 long-distance company, as well as Internet backbone networks for other carriers.
 
NEW GENERATION
 
Yahoo
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $114.8 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $432.8 million
BUSINESSES: The largest Web portal, combining search services, e-commerce, e-mail, multimedia material, games and other features attracting some 40 million users monthly.
 
Amazon.com
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $23.6 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $1.2 billion
BUSINESSES: With more than 14.7 million visitors a month, the largest online retailer, offering products that include books, CD's, toys and consumer electronics.
 
eBay
STOCK MARKET VALUE: $18.4 billion
REVENUES (last four quarters): $170.2 million
BUSINESSES: The largest online auction service, with more than 7.7 million registered users.
 
*Merger still pending. Stock market value and revenues of two companies are combined.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; MediaMetrix, company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (92%); AN (PAR) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (62%); NWS (ASX) (62%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; AOL TIME WARNER AOL INC (92%); BERTELSMANN AG (85%); CANAL+ SA (83%); WANADOO PLC (69%); NEWS CORP (62%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC; AMERICA ONLINE; AOL TIME WARNER

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (73%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION INTERNET & WWW (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (84%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (76%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); FILM (66%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



282 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA MEGADEAL: THE OVERVIEW;
AMERICA ONLINE AGREES TO BUY TIME WARNER FOR $165 BILLION; MEDIA DEAL IS RICHEST MERGER

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
America Online, the company that brought the Internet to the masses, said yesterday that it had agreed to buy the largest traditional media company, Time Warner, for $165 billion in what would be the biggest merger in history and the best evidence yet that old and new media are converging.
By agreeing to give up its independence in return for an ample premium on its stock price, Time Warner is acknowledging that the Internet is central to its music, publishing and TV businesses and that its own efforts to create online operations have been lackluster. Under the direction of its 41-year-old chairman and chief executive, Stephen M. Case, America Online, despite the occasional stumble, has surged far ahead of its online competitors, largely on the strength of its marketing skill and ability to make technology easy to use. 
 America Online, in turn, would gain access to Time Warner's entertainment and information empire. And of more immediate importance would be that the company -- whose 22 million paying subscribers now use modems and telephone lines to go online -- would get access to Time Warner's cable television systems.
Those systems, which now serve 13 million subscribers, would enable America Online to start offering much speedier Internet and interactive television services. Until this deal, no major cable company would carry America Online's services.
The new offerings might include Internet versions of Time Warner's media properties, like news from CNN or movies from Home Box Office, combined with a range of features more sophisticated than the Web sites, chat rooms and e-mail services that are now staples of America Online.
The earliest impact might come in music, where America Online is already developing technology for a digital jukebox that could store and play songs from Warner Music and other labels.
And for consumers generally, whether they now or ever subscribe to America Online or Time Warner services, yesterday's announcement is very likely to portend other mergers and alliances that could hasten the development of and availability of high-capacity information and entertainment networks.
The deal, which was negotiated with such secrecy that it took the industry by surprise, also brought a new realization about the extraordinary stock-market values that America Online and other Internet companies have reached the last 18 months. Although analysts have long predicted that the stars among the Internet upstarts would wind up part of larger media empires, the deal indicates that it could be the Internet companies that do the buying and the old media that sell out.
"The dot-com guys have sort of won," said David B. Readerman, an analyst with Thomas Weisel Partners, a San Francisco brokerage firm. "AOL was able to serve up its stock and buy Time Warner, walking a way with incredible media assets."
Another winner is Mr. Case, who is to become the chairman of the new company, which would be called AOL Time Warner. Time Warner's current chairman and chief executive, Gerald M. Levin, 60, would serve under Mr. Case as the new company's chief executive.
With a market value of $342 billion, based on yesterday's closing stock prices, the combined corporation would be the fourth-most-valuable company in the country, after Microsoft, General Electric and Cisco Systems. And its stock market value would roughly be equal to the gross domestic product of Mexico.
Besides requiring the approval of both companies' shareholders, the combination will face the usual review by antitrust regulators as well as a complex web of local reviews as cable television franchises are transferred into America Online's name. It will also require review by Federal antitrust regulators. The Clinton administration has not yet decided whether to refer the matter to the Justice Department, which has examined America Online's past acquisitions, or to the Federal Trade Commission, which approved the merger between Time and Warner Communications 10 years ago.
Although some consumer groups and members of Congress called for careful scrutiny of the merger, the companies said they did not expect any problems because their businesses do not overlap and neither company dominates its respective markets. No other Internet-access provider, however, has more than about a tenth as many customers as America Online. The companies said they hoped to close the deal by the end of the year.
Mr. Case was already a billionaire but not the instant sort created by some of the newer Internet companies -- many of which, unlike America Online, have never achieved a profit. America Online became profitable in 1998 and has earned $879 million in the last four quarters, on sales of $5.2 billion, far more than any other Internet company. Mr. Case worked for 15 years, through obscurity and ridicule, to achieve his vision that chatting on a computer screen would become as important a communications medium as the telephone or television.
It was Mr. Case who proposed the combination last October to Mr. Levin, winning an initial hearing by offering him the chief executive's title in the combined company. After much haggling over the financial terms, the deal was cemented at a five-hour meeting at Mr. Case's house in Northern Virginia on Thursday night.
As measured by its revenue in the last 12 months of $27.7 billion, Time Warner is already the largest of the conventional media companies. (But the Time Inc. publishing division, on which Henry Luce founded the company with Time magazine nearly 70 years ago, would represent less than 15 percent of AOL Time Warner's revenue.) If the merger is completed, the new company would be an even more powerful player in a wide range of industries.
 AT&T, which is in the process of becoming the largest owner of cable television systems, would face a more formidable America Online, which had been trying to gain access to AT&T's cable systems. And Microsoft would be contending with an even bigger rival as computer software continues to evolve into Internet-based services -- a field in which America Online has excelled.
Indeed, in light of yesterday's announcement, analysts and executives were quick to predict that more media and technology companies would run to the altar.
"The combination of old and new media companies will happen far faster because of this," said George Bell, the president of Excite@Home, the company controlled by AT&T that offers high-speed Internet services over cable systems. "Fundamentally, Time Warner has something AOL doesn't have: great media brands built up over decades. The time isn't there for Internet companies to build that content. Time just won't hold still."
By the same reasoning, other media companies might see the virtue in finding a partner with Internet competence -- as did Time Warner, whose decision to sell out is a tacit admission that the biggest and most talented publishers and studio executives have been at a loss to figure out how to apply their talents to new media. Time Warner was an early player in interactive television, through the Full Service Network, an expensive prototype it introduced in Orlando, Fla. And its Pathfinder service, one of the pioneering sites on the World Wide Web, was never able to turn the company's substantial brands like Time and Sports Illustrated into a major force.
Few of the other media companies have done any better online. Only Walt Disney, with its Go Network, is among the 10 top Internet services.
The big cable operators, including AT&T and Time Warner, have long wanted to be the exclusive Internet providers on the systems they own. But America Online has been calling for open access -- the ability to offer a high-speed service over any cable system just as it offers its current service through the wires of any telephone company.
In yesterday's announcement, Time Warner pledged to support open access to its cable systems by any Internet provider. In practice, neither of the merger partners would have much business incentive to deal exclusively only with each other. Were America Online to restrict itself only to Time Warner's 13-million-subscriber cable systems, it would be missing the opportunity to serve the tens of millions of other people already on the Internet who might be willing to sign up for a new, high-speed AOL.
The man who started CNN two decades ago, was Ted Turner, Time Warner's 61-year-old vice chairman and its largest shareholder. Yesterday, Mr. Turner explained his support for the merger.
"When I cast my vote for 100 million shares, I did it with as much excitement as I felt the first time I made love some 42 years ago," Mr. Turner said. "I voted for it because we will have a stronger company that will create value. It's not so easy to go out and recreate AOL. No one has been able to do it so far."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven M. Case, chief executive of America Online, with tie, and Gerald M. Levin, chief executive of Time Warner, without tie, announcing the merger. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Stephen M. Case, left, chief of America Online; Gerald M. Levin, chief of Time Warner; Ted Turner, vice chairman of Time; Robert Pittman, chief operating officer of AOL; Richard Parsons, president of Time; and J. Michael Kelly, chief financial officer of AOL, at yesterday's announcement. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C11)
 
Chart: "A New Power In Many Media"
INTERNET SERVICE
AOL: 54%
OTHER: 46%
Most United States consumers get access to the Internet from America Online.
 
CABLE SYSTEMS
TIME WARNER: 20%
OTHER: 80%
Time Warner provides cable service to 13 million people, making it the nation's No. 2 provider.
 
PUBLISHING
Time Warner publishes 33 magazines, which are read by 120 million people. It is also the country's eighth-largest book publisher.
 
CIRCULATION, IN MILLIONS
TIME: 4.00
PEOPLE: 3.25
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED: 3.15
SOUTHERN LIVING: 2.45
MONEY: 1.90
 
MOVIES
TIME WARNER: 18%
Films from Warner Brothers and New Line Cinema, both part of Time Warner, grossed $1.4 billion last year, about one-fifth of the domestic total.
 
TELEVISION
Time Warner owns the WB network, which ranks fifth in prime time, and 10 cable channels.
 
SHARE OF U.S. HOUSEHOLDS
WB NETWORK: 5.0%
TBS: 1.6%
HBO: 1.5%
TNT: 1.2%
 
MUSIC
TIME WARNER: 16%
Time Warner sold 119 million records last year, about one-sixth of all records sold.
(Sources: ISP Report; Yankee Group; Subtext; Hollywood Reporter; Nielsen Media Research; Soundscan; company reports)(pg. A1)
 
Chart lists affiliates and divisions for Time Warner in Television Broadcasting, Movie and Television Production and Music. (pg. C11)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER INC; AOL TIME WARNER TIME WARNER INC (94%); AOL INC (92%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (90%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER INC; AOL TIME WARNER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION; INTERACTIVE (TWO-WAY) TELEVISION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTERNET & WWW (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MERGERS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; CASE, STEPHEN M; LEVIN, GERALD M STEVE CASE (90%); RICHARD D PARSONS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000



283 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 10; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: $25 AND UNDER;
When One Successful Place Deserves Another

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov 

 BODY:
THINK you're seeing double sometimes? You probably are, at least when it comes to restaurants.
Everywhere I look, it seems, a restaurant has cloned itself. Shanghai Tang of Flushing, Queens, now has a SoHo branch, while Le Pain Quotidien of the Upper East Side is now in SoHo, too. Cafe Habana in NoLIta has added Cafe Habana in the West Village. Le Gamin, which started in SoHo before branching out to Chelsea, is now in the East Village, too. Jerry's, a fixture in SoHo, has also gone to Chelsea, while the Barking Dog Luncheonette on the Upper East Side has added a York Avenue branch. 
 This duplication is not hard to fathom: flourishing operations produce cash for investing, and a good economy encourages expansion. Success does not ensure further success, but here are three clones that are doing their progenitors proud.
The new EVERGREEN SHANGHAI has taken over the space occupied by the Cool House of Loo on the Upper East Side, and the culinary improvement has been immediate. Evergreen is my favorite Shanghai restaurant in Chinatown, and though there are concessions for a different clientele, like a menu full of generic Chinese dishes, the food maintains its high standard.
Pork-and-crab soup dumplings ($6.95) are delicate and briny, and waiters stand ready to recommend ways to handle the spurt of hot broth safely. Aromatic beef ($5.95) is scented with anise, while soft dense rice cakes ($6.95) go well with mushrooms, pork and shrimp, all stir-fried together. The extensive list of main courses includes Shanghai favorites like braised pork shoulder with greens ($13.95), the meat so sweet and tender you don't need a knife, and sauteed bean curd in a mellow crab-meat sauce ($13.95).
While touches of the garish Cool House decor remain, Evergreen has mostly achieved a sedate neutrality.
GABRIELA'S , on the Upper West Side, did not stray far from the original, just 18 blocks up Amsterdam Avenue. It hasn't changed its winning formula of moderately priced, relatively authentic Mexican food, either. The new place is as packed as the original, with crowds herded into a small bar area as a host calls out names. Sorry, no reservations.
Good values abound, like half a roast chicken with a mildly spicy Oaxacan mole ($7.95), and cochinita pibil ($10.50), slices of pork loin in a pungent Seville-orange sauce. Carnitas ($9.95), crisp nuggets of fried pork, go well with a bright tomatillo salsa, while pozole verde ($11.95), a pork and hominy stew made green by spinach and epazote, has chili heat and complexity.
Portions are large, and appetizers like taquitos de pollo ($6.25), tasty shreds of chicken encased in fried tortilla cylinders and dipped in a tomatillo salsa, can be shared.
I can count on one hand the number of good German restaurants in New York, with fingers left over. Now, two of them are called HALLO BERLIN . The new restaurant, on 10th Avenue in Clinton, has the same rathskeller style of the cramped original, with indoor picnic tables and benches, but it is roomier and spiffier, with a bar, too. Best of all, the food, ranging from simple sausages to full dinners, is just as good.
The plump wienerwurst, served on soft rolls with vinegary red cabbage, sauerkraut and fried potatoes ($10), make excellent hot dogs; pan-fried bratwurst and bauernwurst ($10), a beef-and-pork combination, are crisp-edged and savory. Full dinners, with choices like crisp pork schnitzel ($11), lean smoked pork chops ($11.95) and tart tender sauerbraten ($13.95), are served with fine soups, like smoky potato or white bean tinged with vinegar.
Beer, of course, is the beverage of choice, with good special choices like Ayinger Celebrator ($5), a double bock as dark as black coffee.
 
Evergreen Shanghai
1378 Third Avenue (78th Street), 212-585-3388. Monday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, noon to 11 p.m. All major cards.
 
Gabriela's
311 Amsterdam Avenue (75th Street), 212-875-8532. Monday through Thursday, 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, to midnight; Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. All major cards.
 
Hallo Berlin
626 10th Avenue (44th Street), 212-977-1944. Monday through Friday, 11 a.m. to midnight; Saturday, noon to midnight; Sunday, 3 p.m. to midnight. Mastercard and Visa. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: EVERGREEN SHANGHAI RESTAURANT (NYC); GABRIELA'S (NYC RESTAURANT); HALLO BERLIN (NYC RESTAURANT) COOL HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EVERGREEN SHANGHAI RESTAURANT (NYC); GABRIELA'S (NYC RESTAURANT); HALLO BERLIN (NYC RESTAURANT) COOL HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (92%); PORK (87%); 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



284 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: IDEAS INTO ACTION;
Thinking Great Thoughts Without Great Money

BYLINE: By FRED ANDREWS 

 BODY:
DWIGHT MACDONALD, the acerbic essayist, once described the Ford Foundation as a large body of money surrounded by people who want some. The Peter F. Drucker Foundation for Nonprofit Management, with little money, is a pool of management wisdom for all who choose to dip their cup.
The Drucker Foundation, a decade old, survives on the quality of its educational offerings, spending less than $2 million a year, living without the security of an endowment. Its staff of six works out of donated offices at Mutual of America headquarters on Park Avenue in Manhattan. 
 "We are an anomaly," said Frances Hesselbein, the founding president and now board chairman of the foundation. "We have no money. We deal only in intellectual capital. We don't make grants. We bring great thought leaders together with the leaders of the nonprofit sector."
By a conservative count, the nonprofit sector in this country includes more than a million organizations, employing 10 million people, from the president of Harvard to the blood bank director to the parish priest. Since Tocqueville's day, astute observers have pronounced this web of voluntary associations, also called the social sector, the fabric of American democracy. Almost certainly, more people -- one out of two adults -- will serve as volunteers in nonprofit groups this year than will vote for president. "It is not business, it is not government, it is the social sector that may yet save the society," Mrs. Hesselbein declared in an interview last week.
The foundation's inspiration and honorary chairman is Professor Drucker, the management thinker. But it is Mrs. Hesselbein who has made things happen. In 1998 she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom for her achievements as head of the Girl Scouts from 1976 through 1990, including tripling minority membership. Undoubtedly, she is the only chief executive to appear on the cover of Business Week surrounded by Girl Scouts.
The medal also cited her Drucker Foundation contributions to the discipline of managing nonprofits. Her primary advice to these service groups is to "revisit the mission" -- to sharpen and clarify what they are all about. Even more than in business, the mission statement is critical to a nonprofit's cause, because its purpose, not paychecks or profits, is what motivates people to work. It is "the most powerful way to mobilize people," she said. And the message should be short. "Peter says it should fit on a T-shirt."
At the Girl Scouts, Mrs. Hesselbein pushed into unfamiliar areas like housing projects and immigrant communities. She still talks about "the remarkable opportunity" of inclusiveness. "Whether it is the U.S. Army or the Salvation Army or the Girl Scouts, we look at all those people out there that we want to bring in. So we ask ourselves: When they look at us, can they find themselves?"
The Drucker Foundation is known for the self-assessment program it developed for nonprofit organizations around five questions that one participant called "as sharply edged as a bayonet": What is our mission? Who is our customer? What does the customer value? What are our results? What is our plan?
Last year, with financial support from Dayton Hudson, the foundation conducted more than 60 workshops all around the country, attracting some 3,000 leaders of nonprofit groups. The exercise can last from two months to a year.
"The whole focus is on performance and results," Mrs. Hesselbein said. Without profit as a yardstick, service groups are compelled to devise other effective measures, not only as a compass for themselves but as a way to demonstrate results to those who provide the money. "Donors do not reward good intentions," she said.
The foundation throws a spotlight on outstanding community groups through an annual $25,000 award for nonprofit innovation. Last year it went to the California Emergency Foodlink of Sacramento for a program that trained the hardcore unemployed as truck drivers and bus drivers.
The foundation's Web site (www.pfdf.org) attracts 1,200 to 1,300 hits a day, triple the rate of a year ago. It features the self-assessment process as well as the foundation's Leader to Leader magazine and the writings of Mrs. Hesselbein and Professor Drucker. It has introduced an "innovation of the week," a capsule profile drawn from the hundreds of successful community programs submitted for the annual award.
A key objective at the foundation is to dismantle the walls separating the nonprofit, business and government sectors. It contends that good management is good management, in no matter what sector, and it has pushed leaders of nonprofits to think of themselves in the same league as their business counterparts.
With that stance, the foundation's constituency has evolved into an unusual communion of pragmatic community organizations and cerebral management theorists. Thinkers like Peter M. Senge (who wrote "The Fifth Discipline") and popular authors like Stephen R. Covey (who wrote "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People") speak at the foundation's conferences and contribute to its published works.
Their audience is more down to earth -- groups like the Intermountain Children's Home in Helena, Mont.; the Arizona Cactus-Pine Girl Scout Council in Phoenix, and the Central Institute for the Deaf in St. Louis. Delegates from these groups were among 400 participants at the foundation's annual conference in Los Angeles in November.
Leader to Leader, the foundation's quarterly, brims with high-toned reflections on management. It is not cheap ($99 a year to nonprofit subscribers, $149 to others); it has a paid circulation of 7,000. The current issue features Stephen Jay Gould, the Harvard paleontologist, on lessons for organizational theory from biology and evolution. In an essay, Dee Hock, chief executive emeritus of Visa International, applies chaos theory to management.
The foundation's latest anthology, "Leading Beyond the Walls" (Jossey-Bass Publishers, San Francisco, 1999), includes such management authors as Jim Collins, C. K. Prahalad, Regina E. Herzlinger and Arun Gandhi, along with Mr. Senge and Mr. Covey. The collection is rich with provocative and visionary points of view. Mr. Collins, for instance, argues that hierarchical organization is sorely out of date. Authority will flow more from peer recognition than from rank.
"You are a leader," he wrote, "if and only if people follow your leadership when they have freedom not to." One day, Mr. Collins predicted, we will look back on the present system of a single job with a fixed employer as "a somewhat barbaric form of organization, much the way we view indentured servitude today."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frances Hesselbein, left, the board chairman, with Peter F. Drucker, the honorary chairman, in Los Angeles last fall at the annual conference of the Drucker Foundation for Nonprofit Management. (Robert Burgess for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DRUCKER, PETER F, FOUNDATION FOR NONPROFIT MANAGEMENT BUSINESS WEEK (53%); DRUCKER FOUNDATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRUCKER, PETER F, FOUNDATION FOR NONPROFIT MANAGEMENT DRUCKER FOUNDATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); BLOOD BANKS (52%); ARMIES (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, FRED; HESSELBEIN, FRANCES; DRUCKER, PETER F PETER FERDINAND 'PETER F' DRUCKER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



285 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO GAINS. The euro rose after economic officials in Europe said prospects for growth in the region would bode well for the currency. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0322, up from $1.0259 on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



286 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Development Agency's Survival Tale

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Nearly four years ago, the Republican-led House voted to abolish the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a small federal agency that provides insurance and loan guarantees to American companies that invest in developing nations, branding it as corporate welfare.
After barely surviving that brush with legislative death because of support in the Senate, the agency culminated a startling turnaround last fall when Congress renewed its lending and insuring authority for four years, a rare example of bipartisanship in foreign policy on Capitol Hill. 
 How OPIC went from being the symbol for a Republican crusade against government subsidies to being the champion of American entrepreneurs in the global economy is also a story of how the agency's new, politically astute leadership used a grass-roots campaign to translate its business projects and policy goals into something that all lawmakers understand: jobs.
"If there's been any kind of common-denominator issue over the last year or so, where Democrats and Republicans were able to agree, it's been on international trade," said Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who as a businessman in the early 1990's used loans and insurance from the agency to help build one of the first fiber optic telephone systems in Hungary.
Under the stewardship of George Munoz, the agency's president and a former chief financial officer at the Treasury Department, the agency stifled its biggest critic in the House, John R. Kasich, Republican of Ohio. It has won a reprieve from its biggest opponent in the Senate, Wayne Allard, Republican of Colorado. And it gained the support of the speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois.
Since its near-demise in 1996, the agency has joined in important Clinton administration goals abroad, from providing loan guarantees for a pipeline to carry Caspian Sea oil across Turkey to establishing a $150 million investment fund for the Balkans after the air war over Serbia.
"In strategic regions like sub-Saharan Africa, Central America and, most recently, Southeast Europe, OPIC is a significant component of our foreign policy initiatives," President Clinton said last month.
For a little-known agency with an $18 billion portfolio and 200 employees -- with a main business of selling American companies insurance against political risks overseas -- the turnaround strategy has been fairly simple: redefine an agency sometimes confused with OPEC and repair the political damage in Congress.
Both jobs fell to Mr. Munoz, a 48-year-old former international investment lawyer and skilled political infighter who was once the president of the Chicago Board of Education.
Mr. Munoz sees his agency's role as supporting projects that pave the way for broad private American investment. "It's not our job to be with every investor and to be in every deal," Mr. Munoz said in an interview. "We show by example."
Soon after taking over the agency in late 1997, Mr. Munoz made Capitol Hill his first stop. He and his deputy, Kirk K. Robertson, a former top Senate Democratic aide, met with critics to address concerns that their agency was another savings-and-loan crisis in the making. The agency's loan default rate is below 1 percent, and it recovers from foreign governments 95 percent of insurance claims paid out.
Combatting the corporate welfare criticism, Mr. Munoz noted that the agency reaps more than $140 million in net income each year in fees and premiums from corporate clients whose projects range from shrimp farms to electric power companies. Mr. Munoz revamped how managers were selected to head the agency's emerging-market investment funds, after being stung by criticism two years ago that large political donors were landing the choice positions.
The agency is now courting small businesses more aggressively, lowering the minimum loan size to $250,000 from $2 million and streamlining the application for political risk insurance to 5 pages from 20.
One entrepreneur, Boris Shlommc, owner of Amicale Industries in Manhattan, said insurance from the agency had been instrumental in helping build a joint venture in Mongolia that sorts, scours, dries and bales raw camel and goat hair to make yarn.
"Before, OPIC was looked on as an organization to help big business, and big business needs very little help," said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, who heads a House international relations subcommittee that oversees OPIC.
At the same time, Mr. Munoz and Mr. Robertson packed up their glossy brochures and spreadsheets and hit the road, visiting more than 30 states, often at locally sponsored export conferences. They came armed with new statistics, posted on an expanded Web site, that promote a state-by-state breakdown of jobs and exports created by agency clients and their local suppliers in that state.
"You've got to take an agency that a lot of people didn't understand and bring it down to cases, so members can see you doing well at home," said Edmund B. Rice, president of the Coalition for Employment Through Exports, an association of 35 major American exporters and banks. "To me, that's good politics."
One early supporter was Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. "Private investment supported by OPIC does far more to promote growth and to ensure economic and political stability in developing countries than does any amount of wasteful foreign aid," Senator Helms told a group of Charlotte business leaders in April 1998.
Critics contend, however, that special interests are pressing lawmakers to support agency ventures that private companies consider too risky to support. "The agency finds people in members' districts who get OPIC loans to raise hell and calls it education," said Myron Ebell, an international policy analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, an economic research group here. "Arm twisting is what I'd call it."
Not all of Mr. Munoz's changes have panned out, like ensuring that agency projects do not hurt the environment in host countries. "On paper, their environmental standards look good, but their record for implementation is spotty," said Jon Sohn, an international policy analyst for Friends of the Earth.
Nonetheless, most Congressional critics have backed off. "They were very organized," acknowledged Mr. Kasich, who remains philosophically opposed to the government's providing loans or insurance to private companies.
Senator Allard, after meeting Mr. Munoz several times, agreed: "I still have some concerns about OPIC, but we'll give him a year and check back. He's trying." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SERBIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (68%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (91%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (92%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (92%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SERBIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (53%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRENDS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; MUNOZ, GEORGE CHUCK HAGEL (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN KASICH (58%); WAYNE ALLARD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



287 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Israel Official Is Joining Merrill

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch & Company, the biggest United States brokerage firm, said today that it had hired Jacob Frenkel, the departing governor of the Bank of Israel, to head its global financial institutions group.
Mr. Frenkel will also be chairman of the firm's sovereign advisory group, which advises governments and international financial institutions like the European Investment Bank. 
 "As governor of the Bank of Israel, he is credited with liberalizing Israel's financial markets, removing foreign exchange controls and reducing inflation," David Komansky, chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.
Mr. Frenkel, born in Israel, completed a Ph.D. in economics at the University of Chicago, where he taught from 1973 to 1987. He later was economic counselor and director of research at the International Monetary Fund from 1987 to 1991. Starting in 1991, Mr. Frenkel served two terms as governor of the Bank of Israel, working for the prime ministers Yitzhak Shamir, Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres, Benjamin Netanyahu and Ehud Barak.
He announced his resignation in November. David Klein was appointed the new bank governor last Friday.
Mr. Frenkel will join Merrill Lynch with the aim of building business with governments and institutions in investment banking, debt and equities. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (96%); MER (NYSE) (96%); 8675 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; BANK OF ISRAEL MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (96%); BANK OF ISRAEL (93%); EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; BANK OF ISRAEL UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (54%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); GOVERNORS (58%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%); RESIGNATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: FRENKEL, JACOB EHUD BARAK (57%); SHIMON PERES (57%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



288 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Try to relax. At least two psychologists are paying attention to stress from life on the road.

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. Joe Sharkey's e-mail is jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
BUSINESS travel is stressful," said Jonathan B. Bricker of the University of Washington in Seattle.
Well, duh, you are probably saying, just as I did upon encountering "Something Stressful in the Air: Personality and Business Air Travel Stress," a research report by Mr. Bricker, who is a doctoral student in clinical psychology, and Irwin Sarason, a professor of psychology at the university. 
 But the next time you are stuck in that dingy departure lounge at O'Hare, stewing over that missed connection and wondering what new abomination the airline, hotel or car rental industries might be planning to send your way before you get to that meeting in Munich, it might help to consider that somebody at least is paying attention to your psychological plight. (Of course, it might help a lot more if the corporate travel department would simply toss you a first-class ticket, but that's beyond the purview of an academic study.)
The report, which was presented last August at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Society, was partly suggested by a study in 1997 of the health-insurance records of 10,800 employees of the World Bank. This study found that World Bank employees who routinely traveled on business accounted for 80 percent more medical claims than employees who did not travel. Among the common problems found at higher levels in the frequent travelers: Intestinal and diet complaints, vascular troubles, respiratory infections (perhaps caused by airplane cabin air, the study suggested), back aches -- and higher levels of clinical complaints about occupational stress and anxiety.
Enter Mr. Bricker, whose curiosity about the peculiar psychological universe of business travel had already been piqued when he worked for several years at a travel agency in San Francisco while he was an undergraduate student.
"I would talk to business travelers about the occupational stresses of being on the road -- making arrangements, packing, rushing off to the airport, waiting in line, trying to keep tight schedules, overcrowding on airplanes -- all the pervasive hassles they routinely encounter," he recalled. "I was intrigued because it seemed that so little was known about the psychological stress of business travel, and also the effective ways to cope."
At the University of Washington, Mr. Bricker hooked up with Professor Sarason, his academic adviser. The two soon began work on a project intended to come to a better understanding of how to manage business-travel stress, especially as it is perceived by the driven, type-A personality types who form the hard core of business travelers.
To design a survey questionnaire, Mr. Bricker hung around airport departure lounges interviewing business travelers. He and Dr. Sarason then surveyed 329 frequent business travelers -- some of whom made more than 120 business trips a year -- at two West Coast offices of a large international consulting company.
They found that in general, men tend to externalize travel stress as anger or overt frustration; women tend to internalize it as anxiety or apprehension. People prone to anger are most susceptible to business-travel stress. And the perception of a "lack of control" when traveling is one of the greatest stress inducers of all.
Obviously, any hard-charging executive accustomed to getting things done could be "prone to anger" in an environment as frustrating as air travel, Mr. Bricker concedes.
"Competitive, hard working, tends to demand a lot from others -- those are great traits in a manager," he said. But unfortunate traits for someone stuck in air-travel limbo.
"This is an authoritarian environment in which almost everything is out of your control," Mr. Bricker said. "In air travel, you can be pretty certain to find a delay, a large crowd of people in a very confined space in which you're going to have to queue. You're competing with other people, scrambling when they call your section for boarding, worried, tense, nervous. It's an environment in which you're almost guaranteed to find a plane at least 75 percent full. You have no control."
It is, in fact, the ideal environment for a scientist to study the psychological effects of stress. It would be nice to be able to put in a scientist's mad cackle of delight here, but Mr. Bricker is soft spoken, analytical, and calmly focused on the opportunities. He and Dr. Sarason are now planning to design some practical programs to help travelers, corporations and the travel industry (including air crews) deal with the problems of travel stress.
They have set up a Web site (www.survey123.com) with a questionnaire for business travelers to share their own perspectives. "Most people who fly agree that travel is stressful, and what people really want to know now is how to make it less stressful," Mr. Bricker said, adding that he is open to all suggestions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (51%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; STRESS (HUMAN); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES PSYCHOLOGY (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WORKPLACE STRESS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (52%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE; BRICKER, JONATHAN B; SARASON, IRWIN (PROF) JONATHAN B BRICKER (93%); IRWIN SARASON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



289 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Rates Soar AsTraders Grow Warier

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Interest rates surged yesterday as investors worried about how fast the economy is growing and how hard the Federal Reserve will have to step on the brakes to slow it down. 
 The yield on the 30-year bond jumped to 6.67 percent, from 6.59 percent on Monday, its highest level since September 1997. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 1 3/32, to 92 31/32. The yield on the two-year note, which is more sensitive to coming rate moves by the Fed, rose to 6.43 percent, from 6.35 percent, its highest since April 1997.
The threat of a Fed move to raise short-term interest rates is also narrowing sharply the difference, or spread, between short- and long-term Treasury maturities. The spread between the yield on the two-year note and the 30-year bond is now just under a quarter of a percentage point.
The ususal monitors of market sentiment indicate that investors expect Fed policy makers to make two increases of a quarter percentage point in its short-term interest rate target, the first on Feb. 2 and the second in March. The Fed's current short-term rate, known as the Federal funds target, is 5.5 percent.
The yield on the April Federal Funds futures contract, which reflects a bet on what that short-term rate will average in that month, is now 6.005 percent, half a percentage point higher.
But talk of a half a percentage point increase in February is increasing. "Yes, there is panic in the street," said Ward McCarthy, a managing director of Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J. "And much of it is psychologically related to the Fed."
Adding to the unease is the anticipation of three important economic reports this week: the Producer Price Index and retail sales on Thursday and the Consumer Price Index on Friday.
Probably the most important is retail sales, which are exected to rise about 1 percent for December, showing that the consumer is still spending. With the economy growing at an annual rate of about 5 percent for the last six months, strong consumer spending makes a slowdown much less likely.
"We would just like to see some clear sign that consumer spending is leveling off," Mr. McCarthy said. But the stock market, which had its fifth year in a row of double-digit returns last year, may have to cool so that consumers feel just a little less wealthy.
Although he is only predicting two quarter-point rate increases by the Fed right now, Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "The Fed will keep tightening until they see definitive signs of this economy slowing to a non-inflationary pace." And, he added, the only sector showing any hint of slowing now is housing.
The Consumer Price index is expected to rise by three-tenths of one percent for December. That increase would bring the inflation rate for 1999 to 2.7 percent, up from 1.6 percent in 1998. Much of that increase, however, can be attributed to a doubling in the price of oil. The core inflation rate, which excludes food and energy costs, would still come in at about 2 percent, compared with 2.4 percent in 1998.
Because the core rate of inflation has actually declined, the jump in the headline rate is considered less worrisome to Fed officials than the continued strong economic growth and the tightening labor market, which is threatening to push wages higher.
All of this good news on growth is leading analysts to raise their expectations of Fed rate increases.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FUTURES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); RETAIL SALES (62%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



290 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Propose New Criticism of Rights in China

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
The Clinton administration said today that China's human rights record had continued to deteriorate and that the United States would again sponsor a United Nations resolution criticizing the Beijing government for its crackdown on political dissent and religious freedom.
The announcement by the State Department is sure to offend China at a time when the United States is seeking to improve diplomatic and economic ties with Beijing. Just yesterday, President Clinton urged Congress to vote "at the earliest possible time" for a trade deal with China that was negotiated in the fall. 
 "China's human rights record has continued to deteriorate," said a spokesman for the State Department, James P. Rubin. "The goal here, through this international action, is to shine an international spotlight directly on China's human rights practices.
"Over the last year, the government of China intensified its crackdown on political dissent, initiated a campaign to suppress the Falun Gong and intensified controls on unregistered churches and on the political and religious expression of ethnic minority groups, especially Tibetans."
Leaders of the Falun Gong spiritual movement, which has attracted millions of followers in China, have recently been sentenced to harsh prison sentences in Chinese courts.
The resolution will be introduced before the United Nations Human Rights Commission, which meets each March in Geneva.
For several years, including last year, the United States was an annual sponsor of a resolution to condemn the human rights record of China. Washington did not sponsor a resolution in 1998, citing what it said at the time were improvements in the record. The resolution sponsored by the United States last year was rejected by the full commission.
Although the State Department announcement today may annoy Chinese leaders, it may make it easier for the administration to win Congressional endorsement for the trade deal, which would allow China to join the World Trade Organization in exchange for dramatic reforms in Chinese trade policy.
Several lawmakers have suggested that they will oppose the trade deal as coddling a nation with an abysmal human rights record. The announcement today appears to have been timed to show Congress that the administration is prepared to get tough on China's record at the same time that it is pushing for closer trade ties.
"One can have a relationship with China and still have a fundamental disagreement with China on specific issues," Mr. Rubin said. "We engage with China to advance our national interests. As the president said yesterday, we are going to pursue the World Trade Organization issue with respect to normal trade relations. But that doesn't meant that we have to forgo our principles."
He said Chinese leaders were informed today of the administration's intention to support a new resolution to condemn Beijing's record. "That was done at a fairly high level this morning" he said. "China clearly doesn't want this to happen. But the best way for China to not have this happen is for it to make improvements in its record, significant improvements." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TIBET (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION RELIGION (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SENTENCING (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); ETHNICITY (52%); ETHNIC GROUPS (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



291 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Corporate Approach to Remaking Education

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Having helped transform the American economy over the past two decades, a loosely knit group of corporate titans is now taking its ideas about business, investment and management and applying them to a different topic: education.
The group's aim is nothing less than overhauling the nation's system of public schools, eliminating what it calls the government's monopoly in education and allowing parents to choose which school their children will attend at government expense. 
 The idea that business offers a model for education is not new. But these participants -- wealthy businessmen like Ted Forstmann, the billionaire leveraged buyout specialist; John Walton, an heir to the Wal-Mart fortune, and John Doerr, the technology venture capitalist -- are pushing the discussion to a different level, hoping to use their fortunes and stature to steer the debate.
The men, whose preliminary efforts have so far been limited to lobbying, philanthropy and investment but who plan more direct involvement in education reform, envision the government serving as a sort of A.T.M., dispensing to parents the $7,000 or so that public schools spend per pupil. Parents could then use that money to send their children to whatever school they want.
The businessmen hope to draw new providers to education, including, perhaps, companies like Microsoft and National Geographic. If the public schools can compete in that environment, they say, fine. If not, they should be shut down.
"I've never led a revolution before," Mr. Forstmann said. "But I didn't get here without understanding supply and demand. Parents believe the public school government monopoly produces a bad product at a high price. So why are no suppliers rushing forward to cater to them?"
Mr. Walton, whose family grew wealthy building Wal-Mart stores in suburbs and rural areas starved for competitively priced goods, argues that when stores do not go into the inner city, it is because the residents lack the buying power to allow the stores to be profitable.
But if inner-city parents were given the option of sending their children to a private school with the money that would otherwise go to the local public school, they would have buying power equal to that of suburban parents, Mr. Walton said.
Today, the three men will gather with politicians, educators and investors at a conference in Manhattan to try to stimulate investment in education. The conference is sponsored by Merrill Lynch and the Children's Scholarship Fund, the organization co-founded by Mr. Forstmann and Mr. Walton, which this year began distributing $200 million in partial private-school scholarships to 40,000 children around the country.
Clearly some of the interests of these new participants in education lie in profits and politics. Mr. Doerr, for example, invests heavily in for-profit educational ventures through the New Schools Venture Fund. Mr. Walton is active in conservative politics, and Mr. Doerr is a campaign adviser to Vice President Al Gore.
The men said the profit motive was not a bad sign but a good one.
"I will tell you that some people in this effort are actually going to make money," Mr. Forstmann said. "They are, like everybody else who does a good job."
But these men face what might be called the C.E.O.'s dilemma, said Douglas Archbald, a professor of education at the University of Delaware.
"Think about how slow the process of learning to read or write is for an individual kid," Dr. Archbald said. "It takes years to see the result of changes in education. A new C.E.O. can come in and downsize a company or start a new product line, and those changes can quickly appear on the bottom line. But you can't just go into the schools and make people more accountable, tweak the budget here and there and see substantially better results in a year or two."
Those concerns have not dimmed the ardor of Mr. Forstmann and his counterparts, who say they know they are battling something far more powerful than teachers unions, entrenched bureaucracy or special political interests.
"Conventional wisdom just has a choke hold on most good people in America in this area," said Mr. Forstmann, who bought and turned around Gulfstream, the maker of business jets.
"These people are always telling you how impossible it is," he said about educational change. "It's not impossible at all. What do you think's harder, making jet engines or teaching kids reading, writing and arithmetic? I hope you don't have to think too hard about that."
Critics say Mr. Forstmann and his colleagues fail to understand education and how it is run.
"The problem isn't who provides the schools, whether they're public or private or for-profit," said Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College at Columbia University. "It's who can beat the achievement gap between blacks and whites and between urban schools and those in the suburbs."
Other issues will have to be dealt with as well. In a free market system, companies typically spend a large amount of money on marketing and advertising. That would mean that public school dollars would be used to attract more public school dollars -- arguably a questionable use of taxpayer funds.
But even some "educrats," as Mr. Forstmann calls them, agree that competition could be good for the public schools.
"I like the competitive shot that they're giving to the system," Richard Mills, the New York state education commissioner, said of ventures in for-profit education. "It gives weight to the argument that we've been making, saying to schools that you've got to improve."
Professional educators have rarely voiced such arguments, but Mr. Forstmann appears to be winning over some of the biggest opponents of school choice. Teachers have objected that school choice programs will drain resources from public schools.
But last month at a speech at Columbia University, Mr. Forstmann unveiled an advisory board of 19 teachers and other educators who support his ideas. In addition, he said, civil rights leaders from around the country are helping him recruit other teachers.
To Mr. Forstmann, Mr. Walton and the others, the effort is nothing less than a crusade.
"This is a real moral issue," Mr. Forstmann said. "I hate talking about the economics of it." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; CHILDREN'S SCHOLARSHIP FUND MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; CHILDREN'S SCHOLARSHIP FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; PRIVATE SCHOOLS WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); LOBBYING (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (72%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (71%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); SUBURBS (67%); SPONSORSHIP (60%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (55%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; FORSTMANN, THEODORE J; WALTON, JOHN T; DOERR, JOHN L JOHN DOERR (90%); THEODORE FORSTMANN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



292 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Mexico City Journal;
Can't Find Juarez Street? There Are Hundreds!

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 10

 BODY:
It falls to Agustin Palacios Roji, the president of Mexico City's largest map company, to stay current with the shifting geography of North America's largest city. And it is no easy job.
Every year, developers carve some 1,500 new thoroughfares out of the city's suburban fringe, and neighborhood leaders across the metropolitan area, falling sway to passing fancies, rename another 300 streets. As a result, although Mr. Palacios Roji's company publishes a new city map every year, each new edition is instantly obsolete. 
 "People phone us up and say: 'No, our street isn't called that anymore. The name's been changed,' " Mr. Palacios said.
Not that Mexico City residents fail to take their street names seriously. Quite the contrary. They have never tolerated numbered streets, and few have names as prosaic as Elm or Main. Street signs ring with history along roads like Pioneers of the Cooperative Movement, or Division of the North, which honors Pancho Vi lla's fierce revolutionary cavalry.
"The names of our streets and avenues are like a cultural code, our collective memory preserved," Jorge Legorreta, president of the city's central Cuauhtemoc borough, said in a recent interview.
So city leaders were stunned when a survey in 1998 showed that 80,000 city blocks had no street signs and that thousands of other public avenues lacked any official name. Other streets, alas, were named for political leaders now held in ill repute, the survey found.
Mayor Cuauhtemoc Cardenas Solorzano, who has since stepped down to run for president, responded by appointing a Nomenclature Commission to erect thousands of new signs, assign official names to roads now languishing in anonymity and consider renaming streets that had become an embarrassment.
The challenge is sweeping, since Mexico City has 25,000 public avenues and its metropolitan area 72,000. New York City, by comparison, has about 13,000 streets.
Few changes are contemplated, because most street names here are cherished. In the historic center, names like Mixcalco and Tlaxcoaque date to Mexico's City's Aztec builders.
Pedestrians on Tacuba, a cobblestone street still bearing the title given it by Nahuatl-speaking urban designers, tread the path followed by Hernan Cortes during his disastrous retreat in 1520, when hundreds of his conquistadores, weighted down with plundered gold, perished under an Aztec onslaught.
Other streets recall the centuries of colonial rule. Sister Juana Ines de la Cruz, the 17th-century nun who is among the world's greatest poets, has lent her name to 82 city roadways.
Thousands of streets commemorate Mexico's independence struggle, including 760 named for the Rev. Miguel Hidalgo, the priest who roused his parish peasants into anti-Spanish fervor at the onset of the anti-colonial war in 1810.
Such repetition can be bewildering. Martha Nava Zaragoza, a psychologist, lives with her family on Benito Juarez Street -- one of nearly 800 thoroughfares named for the 19th-century president who was a contemporary of Abraham Lincoln and is often compared to him here. Mrs. Nava said she was often asked which Benito Juarez Street she lived on.
"We live on the Benito Juarez Street in the Benito Juarez borough," she says. "So it can be confusing."
Porfirio Diaz, the 19th-century strongman, tried to avoid all this. During the 26-year presidency that followed his first election in 1884, General Diaz sought to impose order by abolishing names and numbering the streets. Residents stubbornly ignored the dictator's numbers but compensated for the impertinence by naming more than 100 city thoroughfares Porfirio Diaz Street.
The revolution that broke out when Mr. Diaz re-elected himself to a sixth term in 1910 swept new names onto thousands of signposts. Venustiano Carranza, the general who assumed the presidency in 1916, renamed 20 streets surrounding the National Palace, each after a Latin American country that had recognized his government. Two hundred eight streets bear General Carranza's name.
That is four times as many streets as are named for Plutarco Elias Calles, the general who consolidated the revolution in 1929 by founding the party that has monopolized power in Mexico ever since.
General Calles might have gotten more recognition, but his last name means streets in Spanish, and the ring of Calles Calle, or Streets Street, limited the sycophantic impulses.
The name of every modern president adorns at least a few streets; not even the surviving ex-presidents who are now widely reviled have been left out. Jose Lopez Portillo, whom Mexicans routinely insulted in public for years because of his catastrophic economic stewardship from 1976 to 1982, is nonetheless honored along 75 public avenues.
Seventeen streets are named for Carlos Salinas de Gortari, who is widely hated because Mexicans associate his presidency, from 1988 to 1994, with the plundering of the public treasury. The Nomenclature Commission's current review appears to have been provoked mainly by public irritation over streets named for Mr. Salinas.
"My deliverymen laugh at me," said Juana Aguilar, 52, a grocer, shrugging as she stacked shelves with bread in her cramped store on Carlos Salinas Street in a neighborhood called Presidentes. "They say this must be a street of thieves."
A few addresses away, Anastasio Juarez Romero, 34, a butcher, was hanging smoked pork chops from hooks on his shop ceiling.
"When we tell people where we live, they say, 'Oh, you must be filthy rich!' " Mr. Juarez said. "We're really hoping they change the name. Anything but Salinas."
At the downtown offices of the Nomenclature Commission, its technical secretary, Angel Perez Palacios, said his staff had received dozens of requests from citizens to rename streets bearing Mr. Salinas's name.
Since its formation in 1998 the commission has focused much of its energy on organizing production of 45,000 new signs for streets that had none. But now citizens' committees in each of the city's 16 boroughs are reviewing suggestions for street name changes.
The commission will act with caution and prudence, but it is good bet that the Carlos Salinas Streets will get new names, Mr. Perez said.
He said the commission had decreed that "the names of personalities can become part of the city's nomenclature only five years after their death, and only if their career contributions are recognized locally and internationally."
The name changes, of course, will force Mr. Palacios Roji to revise his city map.
"We work every day to keep our maps up to date," he said. "It's a grueling task."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers preparing old and damaged street signs for repainting at a factory in Mexico City, which produces 1,500 to 2,000 signs a month. (Wesley Boxce/Newsmakers, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Mexico City highlights Tacuba Street: Tacuba Street's name is centuries old, but an official commission will rename many other streets, whose namesakes have gone out of favor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY (MEX); MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MAPS; STREETS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); ETHICS (72%); SUBURBS (72%); POETRY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); 

PERSON: SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS; DILLON, SAM PLUTARCO ELIAS CALLES (67%); PORFIRIO DIAZ (65%); BENITO JUAREZ (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



293 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Denver Journal;
Revival of the Wild West In the Heart of the City

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Beyond the gleaming towers of downtown and new centers of high-tech companies that cannot seem to move here fast enough is the annual reminder that, in its heart, Denver is essentially a cow town.
Now in its 85th year, the National Western Stock Show is packing crowds daily into the old Denver Coliseum, where Western-style goods are sold by day and rodeo stars perform each night. And iffn you're not wearin' blue jeans, a big ol' silver belt and cowboy boots, well, you're apt to look a mite funny. 
 But more than calf roping and bronco busting, the 16-day event has evolved into one of the world's largest and most important showcases for prized breeding cattle, the backbone of the American beef industry. And for farmers tending their bulls and heifers for auction in the days ahead, prospects for record sales have seldom been better.
Despite enduring problems for America's grain farmers, the cattle industry is experiencing its first real economic boom in 20 years. A rare confluence of rising beef prices and a new consumer demand for beef -- not to mention depressed feed prices -- has pushed up revenue for cattle farmers by 10 percent and more over the last year. Cattle farmers like Glen and Judy Swanson from Durant, Iowa, who have brought several prized animals here this week, say they have not seen anything like it in a long time.
"A farmer is always optimistic that next year will be better," Mr. Swanson said today, standing beside a 2-year-old Iowa state champion bull known as S6807 that weighs a massive 2,275 pounds. "We've been married 40 years. I tell her every year, things'll be better, and she gets tired of hearing me say it. But this year, I really believe it."
Experts say the beef industry operates in five-year cycles. When prices fall, farmers sell parts of their herd to cut expenses and reduce supply. Eventually, demand catches up and prices rise again.
But the most recent uptick has been accelerated by a growing number of Americans eating red meat again. Some are returning to high-protein diets in which meats are a major component. Some believe that eating chicken and fish instead of red meat to reduce cholesterol has not made that much of a difference. Others, feeling flush from the strong national economy, are dining out more often at steak restaurants.
And meat processors have expanded their marketing efforts to accommodate busy families in which both parents work.
"There's more convenience," said Mike Miller, director of cost and performance analysis for Cattle Fax, an industry newsletter. "Companies are precooking the meat so they're microwavable, and more products in the meat case have labels, telling the consumer how to prepare them."
The growing popularity of red meat is also spurring new interest in bison. At a booth here, two men from the National Bison Association handed out brochures that say bison meat has fewer fat grams, calories and cholesterol than beef, pork or chicken. "Even if you freeze it, it stays nice and moist when you cook it," said one of the men, Don Kroupa, a bison rancher in Parker, Colo.
For all these trends, the stock show is ground zero. An exhibit hall adjacent to the rodeo ring has become a virtual beauty salon for rows upon rows of bulls and cows that have proved themselves to be among the best bovine procreators in the country. In preparation for auction, their owners spend hours hosing them down, trimming their fur and blow-drying them smooth so that not a hair is out of place.
For all that, the animals get an ample supply of hay and the promise of a cushy life in the pastures, so long as they keep procreating.
Mr. Swanson said S6807, the son of a 1996 state champion, is such a fine example of a black Angus bull that he could fetch as much as $4,000 at auction this week. And what a prize for his next owner: Mr. Swanson said S6807 could continue producing offspring for another 10 years "unless he loses his libido."
"In that case," Mr. Swanson said, "he'll go to slaughter."
Not all the 10,000 head of cattle living inside the coliseum this month are for sale. Many are here just for show, and other exhibit halls feature pigs, rabbits, sheep, goats, roosters, ducks and chickens.
Visitors can buy almost anything here associated with the West, like chaps, Stetson hats and hand-tooled boots -- all of which look perfectly natural here in Denver, even downtown.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shanna Holloway groomed a young red Angus Limousin cow during the National Western Stock Show in Denver. The event includes sales of livestock and Western-style goods and performances by rodeo stars. (Helen H. Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; NATIONAL WESTERN STOCK SHOW (DENVER); RODEOS BEEF CATTLE FARMING (92%); RODEOS (90%); BEEF (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MEATS (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (72%); FAMILY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PARENTING (70%); GRAIN FARMING (68%); NUTRITION (67%); DINING OUT TRENDS (66%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (60%); DIETING (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL JUDY SWANSON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



294 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Ecuador's 3 Top Central Bankers Quit Over Dollarization

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Jan. 11

 BODY:
President Jamil Mahuad's plan to replace the nation's currency with the United States dollar won approval early today from a rump board at Ecuador's central bank after the bank's three highest officials resigned to protest what they called an irrational change of policy.
The resignations of the bank president and his top two deputies helped intensify the confusion and doubts about the plan, which Mr. Mahuad had described as a necessary step to help rescue Ecuador from its worst economic crisis in 70 years. He also threatened to fire any central bank official who opposed the plan, and it remained unclear today exactly how it would work. 
 "What is occurring continues to suggest to me a lot of confusion," said Marc Helie, a director of the Ecuador Creditors' Advisory Group, which represents holders of bonds on which the country defaulted last year. "We don't even know if they have a consensus to implement the dollarization plan as they have presented it," Mr. Helie added in a telephone interview from New York today.
Pablo Better, the central bank president, resigned after having consistently opposed the Ecuadorean president's plan, arguing that the country was better off sticking with a system allowing the national currency, the sucre, to rise and fall freely against the dollar. Just last week, Mr. Better, a former finance minister, had said that dollarization was not an option for Ecuador, even though the sucre lost 67 percent of its value against the dollar in 1999 and a few percentage points more in the early days of the new year.
Also stepping down was Virginia Fierro, the central bank's general manager, who warned last week against "introducing rushed, crazy measures." She reiterated her opposition after Mr. Mahuad's Sunday night speech announcing the plan, warning that "conditions to dollarize the economy do not yet exist."
The central bank's assistant manager, Patricio Proano, also quit. In addition, dissident staff members posted an official study on the bank's Web site concluding that the exchange rate at which Mr. Mahuad has fixed the currency -- 25,000 to the dollar -- is not realistic. The study suggested that a more realistic rate would be 30,000 to the dollar, which some Ecuadorean and foreign private industry analysts here say is still short of a level that would discourage speculators from testing Mr. Mahuad's plan.
The essence of the government's program is to replace the sucre -- named for Ecuador's national hero, Marshal Antonio Jose de Sucre -- with the dollar.
After the president threatened to call a special session of Congress today to remove any central bank official who opposed him, the rest of the bank's board approved the measure at a tense eight-hour meeting that ended early this morning.
As Congress was meeting here to begin considering laws needed to carry out the plan, protests against Mr. Mahuad and dollarization continued in Guayaquil, the country's main business center.
"The medicine is worse than the disease," said Augusto Aguirre, a leader of the transport workers union, in endorsing the call for a general strike beginning on Saturday and condemning the government's new policy.
Mr. Mahuad's decision to dollarize implies that Ecuador's central bank, which has until now determined monetary policy, will lose many of its functions and in time wither away. "The central bank will participate in foreign exchange markets exclusively to exchange dollars for sucres in circulation," said Miguel Davila, who replaced Ms. Fierro on Monday.
Over the next few months, the government plans to buy sucres now in circulation and replace them with United States dollars. Thereafter, the sucre will continue to exist only in the form of coins to be used for small transactions -- similar to a system used in Panama.
Ecuadorean officials estimate the value of sucres in circulation, calculated at the new official exchange rate, at $450 million. The country's foreign reserves amount to more than $1.2 billion, about $900 million of which is in cash, meaning that there should be no shortage problems in exchanging sucre bills for dollars.
Those figures, however, do not include savings accounts -- most of which have been frozen since March -- or checking accounts. The government plans to circumvent that potentially troublesome problem by issuing dollar-denominated bonds as compensation for accounts in excess of $4,000 or, in some cases, delaying cash compensation for a year more.
The new currency plan is a major setback for Ecuador's efforts to secure a $250 million loan with the International Monetary Fund. An agreement had been scheduled for signing as early as Friday, after nearly a year of negotiations, but Mr. Mahuad's sudden shift of direction has effectively delayed that timetable.
"If the country wants to turn around and start a different economic policy, we have to start negotiations all over again," Jeffrey Franks, the I.M.F.'s Ecuador representative, said to reporters here last week. In a terse statement issued on Monday, the I.M.F.'s managing director, Michel Camdessus, said the fund was willing to resume discussions with Mr. Mahuad "once suitable measures are identified."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Though it was unclear yesterday if a plan to abandon the Ecuadorean currency for the dollar could be carried out, money changers in Quito offered to buy or sell dollars at a rate set by President Jamil Mahuad. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (57%); 

COMPANY: BANCO CENTRAL DEL ECUADOR (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (59%); QUITO, ECUADOR (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US DOLLAR (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DISMISSALS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); 

PERSON: MAHUAD, JAMIL (PRES); BETTER, PABLO; FIERRO, VIRGINIA; PROANO, PATRICIO; ROHTER, LARRY JAMIL MAHUAD (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



295 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Wants $2 Billion Expansion in Tax Credit for Working Poor

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
President Clinton plans to propose a substantial expansion in the program of tax credits for the working poor on Wednesday as he kicks off a broader effort to focus this year's federal budget debate on issues related to low-income people, White House officials said today.
Mr. Clinton will call for a $2-billion-a-year increase in the earned-income tax credit, which provides an annual payment, often thousands of dollars, to 19 million families living below or just above the poverty line, they said. The program is currently budgeted at $26 billion a year. 
 The increase, the first big expansion of the program since 1993, is intended not to cover more families, but to increase the benefit to many recipients by hundreds of dollars a year.
The proposal faces an uncertain reception in Congress. The tax credit has a history of bipartisan support. Because it rewards work, many moderate Republicans and most Democrats back it as a complement to the 1996 overhaul of the welfare system that has pushed many people into the labor force for the first time. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the Republican presidential contender, defended the program last fall.
But many conservative Republicans, especially in the House, see the credit as a welfare payment in disguise and as a magnet for fraud.
Mr. Clinton's proposed expansion of the tax credit is mainly intended to help families with more than two children, a group that has seen poverty rates remain stubbornly high as rates have fallen among smaller families.
While overall child poverty has fallen to 18.9 percent, from 22.7 percent in 1993, the rate among families with three or more children, 28.5 percent, is far higher than the 11.9 percent poverty rate among families with one or two children.
To address that problem, Mr. Clinton's plan seeks to increase the maximum credit for families with three or more children by $500, to $4,491. The administration said 2.1 million families would benefit from the change.
The proposed increase, to be announced by the president in a speech to a group of centrist Democrats in Washington, is part of an emerging debate over how the nation should put its current prosperity to use.
White House officials said the plan would be a major component of a wide-ranging agenda that Mr. Clinton will lay out in his State of the Union address this month and in his budget request next month.
The initiative will address issues including health care, preschool education, creation of jobs and the gap in computer use between the rich and the poor.
At a time when the nation is enjoying the longest spell of economic growth in its history, and with the Treasury overflowing with surplus tax revenues, members of both parties have increasingly focused on what can be done for the people the good times have left behind.
Among the Republican presidential contenders, Mr. Bush and Senator John McCain of Arizona have been sparring over whose tax plan does more to help the working poor.
Former Senator Bill Bradley, who is challenging Vice President Al Gore for the Democratic nomination, has made reducing child poverty and improving access to health care the central planks of his platform. Mr. Gore has long advocated an expansion of the earned income tax credit and other steps to fight poverty.
Mr. Clinton's proposal also reduces the so-called marriage penalty faced by many couples whose benefits would be higher if they were single. It would raise the income level at which married workers begin to lose the tax credit, to $14,480 from the current $13,030. More than 1.3 million families would get an average increase in their credit of $250 a year, administration officials said.
The plan would further increase the benefit for many families by reducing the rate at which the credit is phased out as a worker's income rises. Currently, families with two or more children face a phaseout in which the credit is reduced by 21 cents for every dollar they earn above a maximum level. Under the proposal, the phaseout reduction would decline to 19 cents for every dollar earned. The change would apply to 5.4 million families.
The proposal would also try to encourage low-income workers to save for retirement by exempting contributions to 401(k) programs and Individual Retirement Accounts from the calculation determining how fast the credit is reduced as income rises.
The changes could have a substantial effect on the finances of families living week to week on minimum wage paychecks or slightly more, administration officials said.
A married couple with three children, earning $15,000 a year, would see its annual credit rise by $815, to $4,392 from $3,577, according to an example provided by the White House. A married couple with two children and $20,000 in earnings would see its benefit increase by $416, to $2,940 from $2,524. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH TAX LAW (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



296 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: In Yet Another Profit Alert, Bank One Sees 19% Decrease

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 11

 BODY:
The Bank One Corporation issued a profit warning today, its third in five months, saying that earnings could decline about 19 percent this year, largely because of continuing troubles in its credit card division.
Bank One, which is the nation's fourth-largest bank holding company and is one of the world's largest issuers of Visa credit cards, also said it would take a charge of $725 million in the fourth quarter of 1999, in part to cover one-time losses at its First USA credit card and consumer lending division, which accounts for about a third of the company's earnings. The company is also taking charges related to reorganization, the closings of various bank branches and severance packages, among other factors. 
 The announcement was the latest troublesome development at Bank One, which said just a few weeks ago that its longtime chief executive, John B. McCoy, was stepping down in the wake of continuing troubles at First USA and a huge selloff of the company's stock.
Shares of Bank One dropped 56.25 cents today, to $29.5625, on the New York Stock Exchange. Less than a year ago, the shares were trading as high as $63.
Bank One expects to earn about 79 cents a share when it announces fourth-quarter earnings next Tuesday. For 1999, earnings are expected to be $3.45 a share. A few months ago, analysts had been estimating profits of $3.92 a share.
This year, Bank One said earnings were projected to be about $2.80 a share, down from recent Wall Street estimates of $3.42, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks company earnings. After Bank One and the First Chicago NDB Corporation agreed to merge in 1998, earnings for 2000 were projected at nearly $5 a share.
Today, at a meeting in New York with investors and Wall Street analysts, the company's top executives said they were moving aggressively to rejuvenate the credit card division, whose market share has shrunk because of poor customer service, increased competition and high penalty fees.
But Verne G. Istock, the interim chief executive at Bank One, which is based in Chicago, said the company did not expect the credit card division to return to profitability until late this year or early in 2001.
Wall Street analysts greeted the announcement today with skepticism, saying their confidence had been largely blunted by repeated warnings and earnings revisions that suggest that Bank One may have deep-seated problems in an increasingly difficult competitive environment.
"I think there's a lot of convincing yet to be done," said Nancy Bush, a banking analyst at Ryan, Beck & Company. "I don't think anyone heard anything today that will send them out to buy up the stock."
Analysts also say that the company will have difficulty turning its credit card division around at a time when competition is stiff and the economy could be facing a slowdown.
Though the company's problems are primarily in the credit card division, analysts said, there could be weakness and management problems in other areas, like retail banking.
But company executives insist that other divisions are performing as expected.
"All our businesses, except credit card, continue to be solidly in line with our stated growth and return goals," Mr. Istock said in a statement.
The company said it expected earnings growth of about 10 percent to 12 percent outside its credit card division on revenue growth of about 5 percent to 8 percent this year.
To improve Bank One's prospects and restore confidence, executives said the company would strengthen customer service in its credit card division and devote more resources to marketing, retaining customers and increasing discipline in its financial operations.
The company said it had also reorganized some operations, reshuffled management in recent months and repriced some of its credit card offerings.
"They know where some of the problems are in the credit card division, and they're addressing them," said Henry Dickson, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. "But there is a healthy degree of skepticism about whether they can do it."
The company also said today that it had retained Russell Reynolds Associates to conduct a search for a chief executive to replace Mr. McCoy.
Mr. Istock, a former chief executive at First Chicago NDB, is also a contender for that post, the company says.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BANK ONE CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK ONE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (54%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID JOHN B MCCOY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



297 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Justices' Ruling on States' Immunity From Discrimination Suits

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court's ruling today that Congress lacked the authority to bind state governments to the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act. The vote in Kimel v. Florida Board was 5 to 4. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote the majority opinion, and Justice John Paul Stevens wrote the dissent. Where italics are used, they follow the emphasis of the original.
 
FROM THE DECISION
By Justice O'Connor
This is not the first time we have considered the constitutional validity of the 1974 extension of the A.D.E.A. to state and local governments. In E.E.O.C. v. Wyoming, we held that the A.D.E.A. constitutes a valid exercise of Congress's power "to regulate commerce among the several states," and that the act did not transgress any external restraints imposed on the commerce power by the 10th Amendment. Because we found the A.D.E.A. valid under Congress's Commerce Clause power, we concluded that it was unnecessary to determine whether the act also could be supported by Congress's power under 5 of the 14th Amendment. Resolution of today's cases requires us to decide that question. 
 In Seminole Tribe, we held that Congress lacks power under Article I to abrogate the states' sovereign immunity. "Even when the Constitution vests in Congress complete lawmaking authority over a particular area, the 11th Amendment prevents Congressional authorization of suits by private parties against unconsenting states." . . . Under our firmly established precedent then, if the A.D.E.A. rests solely on Congress's Article I commerce power, the private petitioners in today's cases cannot maintain their suits against their state employers. . . .
Today we adhere to our holding in Seminole Tribe: Congress's powers under Article I of the Constitution do not include the power to subject states to suit at the hands of private individuals. . . . The 14th Amendment provides, in relevant part:
"Section 1. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." . . .
"Section 5. The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article."
As we recognized most recently in City of Boerne v. Flores, 5 is an affirmative grant of power to Congress. . . .
Nevertheless, we have also recognized that the same language that serves as the basis for the affirmative grant of Congressional power also serves to limit that power. For example, Congress cannot "decree the substance of the 14th Amendment's restrictions on the states. It has been given the power 'to enforce,' not the power to determine what constitutes a constitutional violation." The ultimate interpretation and determination of the 14th Amendment's substantive meaning remains the province of the judicial branch. . . .
States may discriminate on the basis of age without offending the 14th Amendment if the age classification in question is rationally related to a legitimate state interest. The rationality commanded by the equal protection clause does not require states to match age distinctions and the legitimate interests they serve with razorlike precision. . . . Under the 14th Amendment, a state may rely on age as a proxy for other qualities, abilities, or characteristics that are relevant to the state's legitimate interests. The Constitution does not preclude reliance on such generalizations. That age proves to be an inaccurate proxy in any individual case is irrelevant. . . . Finally, because an age classification is presumptively rational, the individual challenging its constitutionality bears the burden of proving that the "facts on which the classification is apparently based could not reasonably be conceived to be true by the governmental decisionmaker."
Our decision today does not signal the end of the line for employees who find themselves subject to age discrimination at the hands of their state employers. We hold only that, in the A.D.E.A., Congress did not validly abrogate the states' sovereign immunity to suits by private individuals. State employees are protected by state age discrimination statutes, and may recover money damages from their state employers, in almost every state of the Union. Those avenues of relief remain available today, just as they were before this decision.
Because the A.D.E.A. does not validly abrogate the states' sovereign immunity, however, the present suits must be dismissed. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
 
FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Stevens
Congress's power to regulate the American economy includes the power to regulate both the public and the private sectors of the labor market. Federal rules outlawing discrimination in the workplace, like the regulation of wages and hours or health and safety standards, may be enforced against public as well as private employers. In my opinion, Congress's power to authorize federal remedies against state agencies that violate federal statutory obligations is coextensive with its power to impose those obligations on the states in the first place. Neither the 11th Amendment nor the doctrine of sovereign immunity places any limit on that power.
The application of the ancient judge-made doctrine of sovereign immunity in cases like these is supposedly justified as a freestanding limit on Congressional authority, a limit necessary to protect states' "dignity and respect" from impairment by the national government. The framers did not, however, select the judicial branch as the constitutional guardian of those state interests. Rather, the framers designed important structural safeguards to ensure that when the national government enacted substantive law (and provided for its enforcement), the normal operation of the legislative process itself would adequately defend state interests from undue infringement.
It is the framers' compromise giving each state equal representation in the Senate that provides the principal structural protection for the sovereignty of the several states. . . .
Whenever Congress passes a statute, it does so against the background of state law already in place; the propriety of taking national action is thus measured by the metric of the existing state norms that Congress seeks to supplement or supplant. . . . The precise scope of federal laws, of course, can be shaped with nuanced attention to state interests. The Congress also has the authority to grant or withhold jurisdiction in lower federal courts. The burden of being haled into a federal forum for the enforcement of federal law, thus, can be expanded or contracted as Congress deems proper, which decision, like all other legislative acts, necessarily contemplates state interests. . . . It is quite evident, therefore, that the framers did not view this court as the ultimate guardian of the states' interest in protecting their own sovereignty from impairment by "burdensome" federal laws.
Federalism concerns do make it appropriate for Congress to speak clearly when it regulates state action. But when it does so, as it has in these cases, we can safely presume that the burdens the statute imposes on the sovereignty of the several states were taken into account during the deliberative process leading to the enactment of the measure. . . .Once Congress has made its policy choice, the sovereignty concerns of the several states are satisfied, and the federal interest in evenhanded enforcement of federal law, explicitly endorsed in Article VI of the Constitution, does not countenance further limitations. There is not a word in the text of the Constitution supporting the court's conclusion that the judge-made doctrine of sovereign immunity limits Congress's power to authorize private parties, as well as federal agencies, to enforce federal law against the states. The importance of respecting the framers' decision to assign the business of lawmaking to the Congress dictates firm resistance to the present majority's repeated substitution of its own views of federalism for those expressed in statutes enacted by the Congress and signed by the president.
The 11th Amendment simply does not support the court's view. As has been stated before, the amendment only places a textual limitation on the diversity jurisdiction of the federal courts. Because the amendment is a part of the Constitution, I have never understood how its limitation on the diversity jurisdiction of federal courts defined in Article III could be "abrogated" by an act of Congress. Here, however, private petitioners did not invoke the federal courts' diversity jurisdiction; they are citizens of the same state as the defendants, and they are asserting claims that arise under federal law. Thus, today's decision (relying as it does on Seminole Tribe) rests entirely on a novel judicial interpretation of the doctrine of sovereign immunity, which the court treats as though it were a constitutional precept. . . .
I remain convinced that Union Gas was correctly decided and that the decision of five justices in Seminole Tribe to overrule that case was profoundly misguided. Despite my respect for stare decisis, I am unwilling to accept Seminole Tribe as controlling precedent. First and foremost, the reasoning of that opinion is so profoundly mistaken and so fundamentally inconsistent with the framers' conception of the constitutional order that it has forsaken any claim to the usual deference or respect owed to decisions of this court. . . . Further still, the Seminole Tribe decision unnecessarily forces the court to resolve vexing questions of constitutional law respecting Congress's 5 authority. Finally, by its own repeated overruling of earlier precedent, the majority has itself discounted the importance of stare decisis in this area of the law. The kind of judicial activism manifested in cases like Seminole Tribe, Alden v. Maine, Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank, and College Savings Bank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd., represents such a radical departure from the proper role of this court that it should be opposed whenever the opportunity arises.
Accordingly, I respectfully dissent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; LABOR; OLDER WORKERS; CONSTITUTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION AGE DISCRIMINATION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ELDER LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); IMMUNITY (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (90%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); DUE PROCESS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); PETITIONS (73%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, SANDRA DAY (ASSOC JUSTICE); STEVENS, JOHN PAUL (ASSOC JUSTICE) JOHN PAUL STEVENS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



298 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA MEGADEAL: MARKET PLACE;
Two Stocks: One Swings, the Other Doesn't

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
PICKUP trucks can be great vehicles. So can sports cars. But their virtues are very different, and fans of one may not love the other.
That may help explain why Day 2 of the America Online-Time Warner deal sent stock prices of both companies tumbling, with each down $5 or more a share. The value of the stock that America Online is offering for Time Warner, at $165 billion when the deal was announced, leaped to $180 billion in early trading Monday but was down to $145.1 billion by the end of trading Tuesday. 
 That difference -- $34.9 billion -- is itself a huge number. A quarter-century ago, no company in the United States was worth that much. The most valuable company in 1975, I.B.M., sported a valuation of $33.3 billion.
If the proposed merger is completed, shareholders of both companies are going to get something very different from what they bought. In a real sense, Time Warner and America Online have inhabited parallel stock market worlds when it comes to valuations.
"The big question for shareholders is whether the market will accord the new entity a traditional valuation or an 'Internet valuation,' " Henry Blodget, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company, said in a report to clients. "Our answer to this is not surprising: probably somewhere in between."
The problem in the short term at least is that not a lot of stocks now fall "somewhere in between." Nor has there been much demand for such stocks. A share in AOL Time Warner as the company is to be called, will have no hope for the growth rate that was expected for the old America Online. Nor will it sport the current cash flow that was represented by an old Time Warner share.
Moreover, many shareholders of each type of company have been contemptuous of the other. America Online and other Internet stocks were derided as bubbles waiting to burst; Time Warner was viewed as an old-economy company that was stumbling in its efforts to get with the new economy.
Stock prices are set by markets, of course, based on what investors are willing to pay. And in recent months investors have been willing to pay far more for America Online's growth prospects than for Time Warner's cash flow.
That is reflected in a few ratios. Time Warner shareholders will provide operations that produced 82 percent of the revenue, and 70 percent of the operating cash flow, for the 12 months ended last September. But they will get only 45 percent of the stock in the new company.
Look at the numbers that way, and it appears that Time Warner shareholders are getting a bum deal. But a different set of numbers produces the opposite conclusion.
Based on stock prices Friday, before the deal was announced, Time Warner shareholders are getting a 71 percent premium for their shares. Had this been a "merger of equals," with the exchange ratio set by current market prices, Time Warner shareholders would have wound up with only 32 percent of the merged company, not 45 percent.
Mr. Blodget concluded that the combined company's stock price "will be entirely a function of management's ability to instill confidence" in investors. He said that shares of America Online, which closed at $64.50 yesterday, down $6.75, could trade in a range of $55 to $90, depending on how successful that effort is. One tactic being tried by Stephen M. Case, the chairman and chief executive of America Online, and Gerald M. Levin, his counterpart at Time Warner, is to argue that the two businesses are not really that different. "The two companies are very similar, even though at first blush it's not evident," Mr. Case said on Monday. Mr. Levin said that linking up with America Online felt like "coming home" because both companies were "subscription-based, distribution and consumer brand-building" operations.
One risk to this deal is that shareholders will abandon the companies, some seeking purer plays in explosive Internet growth and some looking for better current valuations.
Another is that, in the year this deal may take to close, the stock market itself could radically alter the valuations on these two types of stocks. A year ago, the market thought Time Warner shares were worth 1.7 America Online shares; two years ago that number was 5.6. There is no guarantee that similar changes in the next 12 months will not make the 1.5 ratio in the announced deal seem unfair to one group of shareholders or the other.
The short-term winners in this deal are clearly Time Warner shareholders. Even after shares fell $5, to $85, yesterday, they are trading higher than they ever had before this week.
But in the longer term it is probably a better deal for America Online. Its stock price has fluctuated greatly, tied to two factors: its success in the rapidly changing Internet market, and investor infatuation with such stocks. Mr. Case managed to choose a moment when things looked great on both fronts to use highly valued stock to buy a company that -- by any measure save market valuation -- is clearly a much larger and more successful company.
If and when Internet mania fades, America Online will have substantial businesses, ranging from Warner Brothers movies to Cable News Network, to support its stock price, assuming this deal is completed. But getting to that point will require the company to convince its shareholders -- who presumably were quite happy without the Time Warner safety net -- that the new, slower-growing America Online is something they want to own.
And that, judging by yesterday's market reaction, will be a challenge. The companies need to convince shareholders that they are creating a vehicle as fast as a sports car and with the hauling capacity of a truck. The risk is that it will end up with something that sports car aficionados view as slow and that truck fans think has a small cargo capacity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerald M. Levin, left, and Stephen M. Case, the respective chairmen of Time Warner and America Online, were somewhat pleased at the news conference announcing the merger of their companies. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "New Buys Old"
America Online is bigger than Time Warner in stock market valuation, but far smaller in revenue and cash flow. AOL has agreed to exchange 1.5 of its shares for each Time Warner share.
 
MARKET VALUE BEFORE ANNOUNCEMENT
AOL: 68%
Time Warner: 32%
$300 billion at Friday's closing prices.
 
VALUE IN MERGER
AOL: 55%
Time Warner: 45%
$323 billion at yesterday's closing price for AOL.
 
REVENUES
AOL: 18%
Time Warner: 82%
$28.8 billion (12 months ended Sept. 30, 1999)
 
OPERATING CASH FLOW
AOL: 30%
Time Warner: 70%
$4.9 billion (12 months ended Sept. 30, 1999)
(Sources: company reports; Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER INC; AOL TIME WARNER AOL INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER INC; AOL TIME WARNER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MERGERS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; LEVIN, GERALD M; CASE, STEPHEN M STEVE CASE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



299 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Web Companies Can See Expanding Downtown

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
Internet-related companies decided to relocate to the lower tip of Manhattan in recent years to take advantage of bigger spaces, lower rents and a variety of incentive programs. And a new survey has found that these technology companies are prepared to stay there and grow, and perhaps even pay higher rents, provided landlords invest to make their buildings technologically reliable.
At the top of the high-technology wish list, the survey found, are redundant power supplies, fiber-optic telecommunications and energy-efficient heating and air conditioning. Two-thirds of the companies responding said that they did not have backup telecommunications wiring, and 44 percent reported that they had had problems with their telecommunications. 
 Reliable power and telecommunications are essential to Internet-related companies. Many operate around the clock and can quickly lose customers to competitors if service is interrupted; efficient cooling is needed to keep computers and accompanying equipment at the correct operating temperature.
The survey of technology companies south of Chambers Street was conducted by the Alliance for Downtown New York, the business improvement district covering downtown, and Julien J. Studley, a real estate brokerage that specializes in representing those tenants. Of the approximately 700 technology companies downtown, 97 responded to the survey, which was taken in November and December.
According to officials of the Downtown Alliance, the stated needs of the Internet-related companies amount to an agenda for landlords in what has been a financial area, but has recently emphasized technology.
"It is important for landlords to anticipate high-tech tenant needs because these tenants are vital to the continued growth" of the area, said Sharon Greenberger, vice president for economic development at the alliance.
The good news for landlords is that 52 percent of the companies that responded to the survey said they would be willing to pay higher rents for space in buildings with such features. Of those companies, 64 percent would be willing to pay as much as $1 more per square foot of occupied space annually.
The survey's conclusion that most Internet-related companies want to remain downtown as long as their technical needs are met is gratifying, said Wayne LaGary, the executive managing director of the Studley firm's office in Lower Manhattan, because it is often difficult to persuade such companies to locate in conventional office buildings. Many prefer loft buildings in areas that are considered more fashionable, like on the West Side in Chelsea.
"The front lobby is a barrier for some of these companies," Mr. LaGary said. "They look at the lobby and say 'I don't want to be in this kind of building.' "
But he said that interior space could be modified to be as appealing as a loft and that large buildings could offer better services and security than smaller loft structures.
One chief executive who decided to move from Midtown to downtown is John Waters, the chairman of watersdesign.com, a Web-oriented design company. About 18 months ago, he moved the company from 5,000 square feet in a loft at 18th Street and Fifth Avenue to a full 20,000-square-foot floor at 22 Cortlandt Street near the World Trade Center to accommodate growth and to improve life for his employees.
"In the old building there was only one elevator, so we were always waiting," he said. "Here we have six."
The skylights at the old location were attractive but a security problem, despite the installation of metal bars, he said. And with offices on the 28th floor of the Cortlandt Street building and windows on three sides, all employees have a view of New York harbor.
Lower rental costs were cited by 47 percent of respondents as the main reason for locating downtown. According to Newmark & Company, a real estate brokerage and management firm, the average annual rental rate downtown was $32.78 a square foot late last year, compared with an average of $48.13 in Midtown.
The survey also cited the business improvement district's Plug 'n' Go program, which offers small high-technology companies prewired space, initially at below-market rentals, as an attraction. According to officials of the Downtown Alliance, 252 companies have participated in the program since it started in 1997.
Keeping high-technology tenants happy is important for landlords, according to the survey, because most of these companies are expecting to grow and require additional space for new employees. Fully 80 percent reported that they anticipated needing more space over the next five years.
Abandoned by many financial companies in the late 1980's, downtown struggled with a high vacancy rate through most of the 1990's. But the influx of Internet-related companies has steadily whittled that rate, with Newmark reporting that it fell to 9.1 percent in the third quarter for all office space below Canal Street. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JULIEN J STUDLEY INC (55%); DOWNTOWN ALLIANCE (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOWNTOWN ALLIANCE (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RENTING AND LEASING TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); HVAC SYSTEMS (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); FIBER OPTICS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



300 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
St. Francis Had It Easy In the Forest

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
PIGEONS have been much in the news, which is gratifying to those of us who see their inner beauty, but as usual the publicity is a little awkward, too. It brings up that ethical quandary that has been troubling urbanites since pigeons strutted outside ancient Mesopotamian temples: to feed or not to feed?
The news from Assisi is especially awkward. You would expect the home of St. Francis to be not only a haven for birds but also a moral beacon. Yet it's hard to fathom the ethical consistency in the actions of the friars tending the basilica built over the bones of St. Francis. 
 The Franciscans, along with environmental groups in Assisi, are opposed to a new ordinance in the medieval hill town that bans the feeding of pigeons. At the same time, though, the Franciscans have installed electric wires that emit impulses to repel birds from parts of their 13th-century basilica. They love pigeons, but on other people's property.
The Italian friars have the same concerns as the mayor of Assisi, and the same as the Manhattanites near Hell's Kitchen Park who are currently embroiled in a legal battle with a neighbor, Sally Andrews. She has been feeding more than 500 pigeons daily, and has been dispensing more than 60 pounds of feed per week.
Ms. Andrews has referred to her daily ritual as "my calling," and some might see her in the tradition of St. Francis. He did, after all, feed the birds and offer praise to the Lord "for all thy creatures." But there are also human creatures who have to deal with results of feeding pigeons, with an environmental problem that economists refer to as an externality of the production process.
This problem became apparent to me five years ago, soon after I started feeding a pair of pigeons on my kitchen ledge, Don Guano and Medea. They were having fertility problems -- she kept laying eggs that never hatched -- and I decided to augment their diet with Raisin Bran.
The feedings seemed to bring immediate benefits to the pigeons as well as to me. Fortified on Raisin Bran, they produced a baby pigeon whose brief life -- Squabby disappeared after three days -- was turned into perhaps the longest pro-pigeon article in the history of The New York Times.
I went on feeding the pigeons and began adopting some of St. Francis' techniques. I switched from Raisin Bran to seeds and trained Don Guano and Medea to eat out of my hand and perch on my arm. The morning feeding at my kitchen window became a ritual that attracted lots of other pigeons. My neighbors began worrying about externalities, and so did I.
Maybe St. Francis' neighbors didn't complain, but he lived in the forest. How could I justify feeding birds that would sully sidewalks and other people's ledges? How could I balance my pleasure playing St. Francis with the neighbors' displeasure at bird droppings?
ONE solution favored by economists is a pollution tax, but in this case it didn't seem very practical. I could increase my annual tip to help compensate the building's staff for the extra clean-up work, but there was no easy way to recompense the neighbors for the externalities on their sidewalks and ledges.
Instead, I tried to adopt the ethic embodied in laws like the Clean Air Act and pooper-scooper laws: you make a mess, you clean it up. I kept feeding Don Guano and Medea, since I regularly cleaned up their externalities. But I cut off the guest pigeons.
The other pigeons did not grasp this ethical distinction, so each morning, as Don Guano and Medea fed, I used a water pistol to fend off a mob of hungry pigeons from other ledges. Eventually I switched to a water rifle and was able to nail the invaders in midair from 15 feet away. It became my morning exercise, a poor man's version of skeet-shooting.
The friars in Assisi may object to this strategy, and I grant it's hard to imagine St. Francis with a water rifle. Of couse, it's hard to imagine him in an apartment building either.
But if he saw the mess in the piazza outside the basilica of Assisi, or the stoops near Ms. Andrews's home in Hell's Kitchen, he might go along with the the clean-up-after-yourself ethos. If nothing else, it would enable pigeon lovers in Assisi and New York to treat their neighbors in the spirit of St. Francis' famous words: "Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (77%); UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASSISI (ITALY); NEW YORK CITY; ITALY (77%); UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: BIRDS; PIGEONS ETHICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ORDINANCES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (62%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN DON GUANO (70%); SALLY ANDREWS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



301 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says Aid Proposal Is Urgent for Colombia Drug Effort

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
The Clinton administration today announced a $1.3 billion, two-year emergency aid package to fight narcotics in Colombia, deepening American involvement in that country's long war against both narcotics traders and rebels.
President Clinton said the aid was "urgently needed" to help Colombia and to keep "illegal drugs off our shores." 
 The plan received immediate praise from Congressional Republicans, who said it mirrored their legislation, introduced last autumn, with the exception that Mr. Clinton wants to spend even more money.
Most of the money that Mr. Clinton asked for would be spent on military training and equipment for the Colombian armed forces and police in their drug effort. But significant money would also go to improving the judicial system and institutions protecting human rights and to bolstering the economy.
The Colombian government, which already is the third largest recipient of American aid, could begin receiving the money as early as March. President Andres Pastrana welcomed the program, saying that fighting the narcotics trade is a "shared responsibility."
The Colombian military would receive 30 Blackhawk helicopters and 33 Huey helicopters to ferry soldiers into two southern provinces that have become the center of coca production.
In addition, $600 million set aside for military assistance would include money to train and equip two more counternarcotics battalions.
Colombian farmers who grew coca or poppy and villagers displaced by the drug effort would receive $145 million to help find new livelihoods and new homes. And $93 million would be spent to strengthen Colombia's judicial system in its drive to protect human rights, enforce drug laws and crack down on money laundering.
"This is a comprehensive approach that could be the basis for the peace process," Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said today at a news conference. "It is based on the program President Pastrana has developed." Dr. Albright will visit Bogota this weekend to go over the program and to figure out how to persuade other countries to contribute, said James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman.
Republicans said today's proposal showed that the president had come to accept many of their ideas for combatting drugs before they reach the United States. Representative Bill McCollum, Republican of Florida, applauded Mr. Clinton's proposal, saying it took many ideas from his own legislation that became law in 1998.
Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio, also welcomed the plan. He had offered somewhat more modest legislation, co-sponsored by Senator Paul Coverdell, Republican of Georgia; it called for spending $1.6 billion, but over three years.
Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, said the administration has "benefited from the debate" with Republicans. He said he expected that both sides could reach an accord on immediate aid.
But some Democrats cautioned that this strategy would require many more years and billions of dollars -- with no assurance that the United States could avoid being tainted by or even drawn into the dirty side of a civil war that has killed tens of thousands of people over 40 years.
"Everyone wants to stop the flow of illegal drugs into the United States, but we have spent billions trying to do that, and the flow has gotten worse, not better," said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. "What we are seeing is a dramatic ratcheting up of a counter-insurgency policy in the name of counterdrug policy."
The drug trade underwrites the insurgency. The rebels earn as much as $100 million a year from the narcotics trade.
Another problem voiced by human rights groups is the right-wing paramilitary groups that protect and profit from traffickers and have ties to officers in the Colombian Army.
"We're talking about giving money to an army that is deeply wedded to paramilitary groups that are the main human rights abusers," said Robin Kirk of Human Rights Watch. "This is a very dirty war, and you have to ask where will U.S. tax dollars ultimately end up."
Colombia already receives $300 million from this year's budget; with the new money, the two-year package would total $1.6 billion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF FLORIDA (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF FLORIDA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); COCAINE (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY TRAINING (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); HELICOPTERS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BECKER, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



302 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Budget Aims to Spread Money Around

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki today proposed a $76.8 billion budget that depends heavily on the state's prosperity to finance spending increases for schools, environmental projects and prison construction, as well as an array of new tax cuts.
The budget veers from the austere fiscal policies that Mr. Pataki, a Republican, had championed during much of his first five years in office, when he sought to reduce substantially the size of state government with significant spending cuts in a host of programs, no matter how popular they were. 
 It is, in fact, one of the least painful budgets that he has ever proposed, calling for no major reductions in state services, even as it provides spending increases for programs that have faced deep cuts in the past, including health care for poor New Yorkers and financing for public colleges and universities.
The budget seeks to spread the state's economic wealth all around, potentially enabling Mr. Pataki to insulate his Republican allies in the Legislature from a bruising budget battle in a year when they face re-election. It may also help the political prospects of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, in his expected race against Hillary Rodham Clinton for the United States Senate, because it contains no major cuts in funds for New York City.
But it will almost surely provoke a lively fight in at least one major area: education. While Mr. Pataki's proposed budget contains a modest 2.8 percent overall rise in state aid to public schools, it calls for some cuts in educational programs favored by Democrats, like expanding prekindergarten classes across the state and enhancing teachers' salaries in urban school districts.
Over all, the governor's proposed budget is $3.5 billion, or 5.5 percent, larger than the one that he and the Legislature enacted last year. But much of the increase includes federal money for programs that automatically grow if no cuts are proposed, like welfare and Medicaid, which provides medical care for the poor.
The budget carries the themes that Mr. Pataki outlined in his annual address to lawmakers last week, primarily his plan to spend $25 million a year to cover tuition costs for college students who agree to teach in the state's most troubled schools for at least four years. It also continues his policy of refusing to spend any of the budget surplus that the state amasses year to year. Instead, it salts away the surplus, estimated at $625 million, to finance tax cuts enacted in previous years but yet to take full effect, as well as to pay off the state's huge debt.
Mr. Pataki declared today that his policies had helped revive the state's once troubled economy, enabling him not only to provide generous financing for vital programs like education, but also allowing him to pay for a new round of tax cuts. "We are on the right path, the path of limited government, controlled spending, lower taxes and more jobs," Mr. Pataki said this morning during his annual budget address. "The budget I submit today moves us further along that path because it is soundly balanced."
The budget represents the opening bid in his annual negotiations with the Legislature over enacting a new state budget. The Legislature almost always adds spending to budgets proposed by governors, and this year will almost certainly be no different, particularly because all of its 211 members are up for re-election and eager to finance generously programs popular with constituents.
The reaction to Mr. Pataki's proposal fell largely along partisan lines in the Capitol. Sheldon Silver, a Democrat and the Assembly speaker, attacked the governor's proposed cuts to education, saying the plan failed to meet the overall need of school districts across the state. "It is a missed opportunity for the governor, but most importantly for the children of New York," he said. "The dollars don't match the rhetoric."
But Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the State Senate and Mr. Pataki's chief ally in the Legislature, praised the plan as a good starting point for negotiations over a final budget. "The governor is recognizing that times are good," he said. "It ought to be the least contentious budget that we have ever done." But even Mr. Bruno said he saw a need to increase spending in areas like education.
The reaction to the governor's plan among groups around the state was varied as well, depending on how the budget affected them. The United Federation of Teachers, the New York City teachers' union, gave a tempered response, noting that Mr. Pataki's plan gave with one hand while taking with the other, and termed it "a good start to this year's budget negotiations."
The New York City Board of Education expressed similar misgivings but said it planned to press the Legislature into restoring some of the cuts the governor is seeking, particularly in programs intended to help schools expand prekindergarten classrooms and undertake minor maintenance projects in aging school buildings.
The plan drew fierce criticism from conservatives, because it departs from the fiscal discipline that Mr. Pataki has displayed during most of his years as governor. Tom Carroll, president of Change New York, the antitax group, said today that the governor's budget "sets a disturbingly high platform as the starting point of budget negotiations."
The proposed budget is based on forecasts of strong economic growth, with total state income rising by 4 percent. In outlining it today, Mr. Pataki insisted that it relied on the tight fiscal policies of his early years and carried forth his mission to limit the size of state government.
Mr. Pataki said that his budget would keep state spending under the rate of inflation, but the yardstick he used is the $37.9 billion general fund, whose definition has been manipulated by governors for years to keep it artificially low. The general fund -- spending supported strictly by state taxes -- would grow 2.3 percent.
But there are other ways to measure growth in state spending. The first is the state funds budget, which includes capital spending and programs financed by fees earmarked for specific purposes; that budget would rise by 5.1 percent, to $52.4 billion. The broadest measure is the all-funds budget, which includes federal and local money. That would increase by 5.5 percent, to $76.86 billion. It is that figure that fiscal conservatives seized upon in criticizing Mr. Pataki.
The governor's budget provides a $355 million increase in state aid to public school districts statewide, with $102 million of that increase going to New York City. But at the same time, the plan cuts back on one of the Democrats' cherished programs: a commitment made by the state in 1997 to expand prekindergarten offerings, reduce class sizes in elementary schools and help schools pay for minor maintenance. Democrats said that in all, Mr. Pataki had proposed eliminating $282 million in those areas. Of that, the city, under Mr. Pataki's plan, would lose $134 million. But much of that money is likely to be restored in budget negotiations, as it has been in the past.
The governor called for $700 million a year in new tax cuts, to be phased in over several years, with the largest being the elimination of a tax on utility companies that adds $500 million a year to business and residential utility bills. In addition, the budget reflects $2.3 billion worth of tax cuts enacted in earlier years, which will go into effect in the next fiscal year, beginning on April 1.
Resurrecting a proposal that he has made before, Mr. Pataki called for building a 1,500-bed maximum-security prison at a cost of $180 million. His aides said the new prison beds were needed to relieve prison overcrowding as well as to provide space for prisoners who serve longer sentences under laws that Mr. Pataki pushed through the Legislature.
For the first time since he took office, the governor did not seek to cut Medicaid, which, when left alone, tends to grow rapidly. As a result, Medicaid spending, the biggest part of the budget, would grow $1.3 billion, to $30.9 billion, a rise of 4.5 percent.
The governor also proposed a modest $96 million rise in state spending on the State University and City University systems. That would bring the total state expenditures for public colleges and universities to $2.7 billion.
But at the same time, Mr. Pataki proposed a $40 million decrease in tuition assistance for low-income college students, something he has sought previously, only to be rebuffed by the Legislature. And Democrats complained that his budget did nothing to address a more than $100 million operating deficit in the State University hospitals.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki with the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, right, yesterday. Between them was Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader.
(David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS -- The New Budget"
New York State budget for each fiscal year. Adjusted for inflation, in 1999 dollars. (Source: STate Division of the Budget)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ENVIRONMENT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; CHILD CARE; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (TEXAS); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUDGETS (92%); PRISONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); GOVERNORS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



303 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

HEADLINE: Whitman Focuses On High Technology

 BODY:
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey yesterday proposed $100 million in new spending to help researchers convert scientific advances into thriving businesses. She outlined a modest agenda for her last two years in office, with the state's economy, education, the environment and the elderly sharing her attention. Page B5. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NJ); LAW AND LEGISLATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



304 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Focuses on Aiding High Technology Initiatives

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Saying New Jersey must make high technology "the undisputed engine" of its economic growth, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman proposed $100 million in new spending today to help researchers convert their scientific advances into thriving businesses, and to help train what she called "the high-tech work force of tomorrow."
In her sixth annual address to the Legislature, Mrs. Whitman, who in past years has used the occasion to tackle difficult problems like high auto insurance rates and rising property taxes, instead outlined a modest agenda for her remaining two years in office, with the state's economy, education, the environment, and the elderly all sharing her attention. 
 The governor seemed to suggest that the greatest battles of her two terms were behind her, although she urged lawmakers to come to terms on a court-ordered program of school construction that could cost more than $11 billion and result in new classrooms and gymnasiums in every district in New Jersey.
"We have made great strides together in so many areas, from health care to transportation, welfare reform to historic preservation," she said. "Now it's time to lock in our accomplishments and build on our record."
Above all, Governor Whitman is seeking to build on New Jersey's strengths in high-technology areas like telecommunications, electronics and pharmaceuticals. High-technology companies employ 10 percent of the state's private-sector workers.
The governor proposed initiatives that could total $165 million over several years, including $55 million from private sources and $10 million from the federal government.
Much of the $100 million in new state spending would help bring new technologies to market, like $5 million to add seven business incubators to the seven already open in the state, $10 million for two small-scale industrial parks to help high-technology start-up companies take root, and $10 million in seed money for a public-private venture capital fund.
Mrs. Whitman's economic plan, called New Jersey Jobs for a New Economy, was conceived by the Edison Partnership, a group of high-technology business and institutional leaders including the president of Princeton University, Dr. Harold Shapiro, and the president of the New Ventures Group at Lucent Technologies, Thomas M. Uhlman.
"We're thrilled that Governor Whitman has chosen to adopt the high-tech theme," Mr. Uhlman said today. "If we stand still, we are going to fall behind. Other states understand the importance of nurturing high-tech, retaining and attracting new high-tech businesses."
Caren S. Franzini, director of the State Economic Development Authority, said California operates 50 high-technology business incubators. Gov. George E. Pataki has proposed investing $440 million to create high-technology jobs in New York, said Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for the budget division in Albany. Of that, $250 million is earmarked from the state pension fund for investment in small and start-up companies, and $95 million goes to grants for research laboratories and centers.
To help train workers for entry-level jobs at high-technology companies, Governor Whitman also proposed spending $15 million for new courses at community colleges, and $3 million for a pilot program to teach computer skills to 1,000 women leaving the welfare rolls.
Besides her economic initiatives, however, Governor Whitman's latest proposals pale next to some of her past accomplishments. In education, for example, Mrs. Whitman has established core curriculum standards for the public schools, set up 47 charter schools, and begun a pilot program in which parents can choose to send their children to schools in other districts at no extra cost.
Now, by contrast, the governor's most ambitious plan is to spend $69 million for preschool programs in the state's 30 poorest districts, including $36 million to provide year-round, 10-hour-a-day classes for 10,000 3- and 4-year-olds.
The governor also announced a new partnership with the New Jersey Education Association, the state's largest teachers union, for a two-year intensive mentoring program that would be required for new teachers. The state would spend $8.7 million to pay the extra stipends for veteran teachers who advise them.
One measure that would not require new spending is a proposal to give state workers two hours a month of paid leave to volunteer in the schools. Mrs. Whitman, who teaches a fourth-grade class twice a month, said she wanted to encourage others to do the same.
Her environmental proposals also seemed modest when compared with her continuing effort to preserve one million acres of open space. For example, she called for $15 million to clean up contaminated sites in urban areas, and another $580,000 to set up three new air-quality monitoring stations.
Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, praised the urban cleanup money, saying anything that encourages urban development "will help take some of the pressure off sprawl development in the rural areas."
But Joseph Doria, a Democrat from Bayonne who is the Assembly minority leader, called $15 million a drop in the bucket. "You could spend that in one city and still need more to finish the job," he said.
The weakest of Mrs. Whitman's four areas of emphasis was in programs for the elderly. She proposed just $5 million in new spending: $1 million to eliminate the 2,000-person waiting list for Meals on Wheels; $1 million more to investigate and prevent abuse and neglect; $500,000 for new supervisors at county offices on aging; $1 million to provide housekeeping and nutrition services to frail residents in subsidized housing; and $1.5 million for background checks on home health aides. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); VENTURES GROUP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; ENVIRONMENT; AGED; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NJ); LAW AND LEGISLATION ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); STARTUPS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HISTORY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%); POLITICS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (56%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) JOSEPH C PAPA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



305 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Justices Cool to Law Protecting Women

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
If the Supreme Court wanted to underscore the constitutional vulnerability of the Violence Against Women Act, it could hardly have orchestrated a more convincing demonstration than it put on today.
Not only did the justices open their session by declaring, in a separate case argued three months ago, that Congress lacked authority to make the federal law against age discrimination binding on the states. But then, during arguments on the constitutionality of the Violence Against Women Act, members of the same five-justice majority in the age discrimination case made abundantly clear their deep skepticism about whether Congress had an adequate basis for opening federal courts to suits by victims of violence "motivated by gender" against their attackers. 
 Congress passed the Violence Against Women Act in 1994, just before the Supreme Court set itself on its current course of subjecting to searching scrutiny any Congressional action that could conceivably impinge on state sovereignty or traditional prerogatives. In a sense, the statute and the court's growing list of federalism rulings have been on an inevitable collision course that ended in the courtroom this morning, with little evidence that the 5-to-4 states' rights majority would shift course.
"Your approach would justify a federal remedy for alimony, child support, even contract disputes," Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said disapprovingly to Solicitor General Seth P. Waxman, who was arguing the government's appeal of a ruling that the law's civil damages provision was unconstitutional.
Some students of the court have speculated that Justice O'Connor's record of solicitude for women's interests might, in this case, trump her demonstrated commitment to keeping federal power within distinct boundaries. But she gave little sign that she saw this case as in any way different from the other federalism cases, including the age discrimination case in which she announced the court's majority opinion today.
The Violence Against Women Act case is an appeal by a former Virginia college student, and by the Clinton administration on her behalf, from a ruling last year by the federal appeals court in Richmond that barred her from using the law to sue two fellow students, football players who she said had raped her in her dormitory room. The woman, Christy Brzonkala, sued after Virginia Tech took no action against one of the men and gave the other a deferred suspension that permitted him to keep playing varsity football.
The 1994 law has several other provisions, including a criminal section that provides for federal prosecution of interstate crimes of sex-motivated violence. The court last year refused to hear a constitutional challenge to the criminal provision.
The section at issue today in United States v. Morrison, No. 99-5, providing for private civil suits for damages, does not depend on whether a defendant has crossed state lines, because Congress wanted to provide a remedy for violence in or near homes. The absence of an interstate "hook," as Justice O'Connor described it, is a decided liability before a court that has taken a limited view of Congress's power to act under its authority to regulate interstate commerce.
Both Solicitor General Waxman and Julie Goldscheid, representing Ms. Brzonkala on behalf of the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, told the court that violence against women had a substantial impact on interstate commerce by deterring women from taking certain jobs or continuing their education.
In striking down the civil damages provision, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit said the law did not come within Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce because it did not address commercial activity. The court today appeared wary of adopting quite such a hard and fast rule, particularly after Michael E. Rosman, representing the defendants in Ms. Brzonkala's lawsuit, Antonio Morrison and James Crawford, said that in his view, Congress lacked constitutional authority to prohibit possession of narcotics for personal use because the activity was not commercial.
But even under a more elastic definition of activity that affects the economy, the justices appeared dubious about accepting the Congressional findings on the economic impact of violence against women.
If the justices find the Violence Against Women Act provision to be invalid under Congress's commerce authority, they could nonetheless uphold it under Congress's authority to enforce the equal protection guarantee of the 14th Amendment, a basis that the Fourth Circuit also rejected. Mr. Rosman, the defendants' lawyer, argued today that the 14th Amendment, which governs only official action, could not be a basis for a law that applies to private behavior.
The law's defenders argue that the statute is aimed at the failure of states to provide adequate remedies for violence against women, an aspect of official action, or inaction, that is appropriately the subject of legislation under the 14th Amendment. But Ms. Goldscheid's and Mr. Waxman's time at the podium ran out before they could address this aspect of their argument.
Mr. Rosman, general counsel of the Center for Individual Rights, a conservative public interest law firm, warned the court that if it upheld this law, "Congress could pass virtually any law" and "relegate the states to a trivial and unimportant role in our federal structure."
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg challenged that depiction. "What is the clash here?" she asked. She said Congress's goal was not to displace state authority but "just to provide an alternate remedy, an alternate forum."
She continued: "We are just complementing what the states do. Why can't Congress do that?"
"The power to regulate is the power to pre-empt," Mr. Rosman replied.
Justice Ginsburg persisted, noting that "we have so many parallels in discrimination legislation," with both the states and the federal government barring discrimination in employment and in public accommodations. Why can't the Violence Against Women Act coexist with parallel state laws, she asked.
"Because this is not commerce," Mr. Rosman replied. "This is violence, interpersonal violence, the kind of thing states have had as their exclusive province ever since the start of our country."
The Violence Against Women Act has generally been welcomed on the state level, with 36 states joining a brief in this case in support of the law. Only one, Alabama, filed a brief asking the court to declare the provision unconstitutional.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: An effort by Christy Brzonkala to sue using the Violence Against Women Act is at issue. (Shana Raab for The New York Times); Members of the National Organization for Women demonstrated yesterday at the Supreme Court, as the justices heard arguments in a case on the rights of victims of sex-motivated violence to sue. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 245 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT OF 1999 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: VIRGINIA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE & STATE UNIVERSITY; SUPREME COURT (US) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIRGINIA POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE & STATE UNIVERSITY; SUPREME COURT (US) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSTITUTIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (83%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); DAMAGES (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: BRZONKALA, CHRISTY; GREENHOUSE, LINDA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



306 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Building on Her Success

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
As she begins her final two years in office, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman appears to be quite comfortable that her legacy is secure.
In delivering her State of the State address today -- the last before she enters the lame-duck year of her final term in office -- the governor laid out a modest array of economic and quality-of-life proposals: $100 million in state spending to spur high-technology business growth, plus a variety of smaller plans to help the elderly, bolster the education system and make limited improvements in New Jersey's antipollution efforts. 
But to many in New Jersey politics, the speech was most notable for the absence of any bold proposals. In her six years in office, Mrs. Whitman has used her annual January address to preach the twin pillars of fiscal restraint -- tax cuts and reduced government spending -- or propose sweeping programs like her $1 billion plan to preserve one million acres of open space.
Having accomplished many of those goals, and established her credentials as a moderate Republican, the governor apparently decided this year to ride the national economic boom and build on the state's business success rather than take on any other major challenges.
She also did little to antagonize conservative leaders of the national Republican Party. During this year's Republican presidential debates, Governor Whitman has been repeatedly criticized, by name, because she supports abortion rights, and her status as the favorite object of conservative scorn could ultimately hinder any national ambitions.
"If she still holds any hope of being the vice presidential nominee, or even a cabinet member, it makes sense to play it safe," said Gerald Pomper, a political science professor at Rutgers University. "She's already done the things conservatives like, which is to cut taxes. She's best off not proposing anything too liberal. And to the anti-abortion people, there's nothing she can do to get in their good graces anyway."
In Trenton, reaction to the governor's speech was divided, predictably, along party lines. Democrats complained that Mrs. Whitman had squandered an opportunity to channel more of the state's record surplus to residents of New Jersey's struggling cities or shore up some of the financially troubled hospitals.
"Sadly, the governor chose to throw us bones," said Senator Richard Codey, the minority leader. "We received mostly recycled material on high-tech investment initiatives, elder care and the environment."
Republicans were far more complimentary, and Assembly Speaker Jack Collins praised the governor for highlighting important, but often overlooked, issues like elder care.
But many members of both parties acknowledged that the scaled-down ambitions reflected the shifting balance of power in state government as Mrs. Whitman's tenure moves toward its end. The two legislative leaders, Senate President Donald T. DiFrancesco, also a Republican, and Mr. Collins, are likely candidates to succeed Mrs. Whitman as governor in 2001, and have become increasingly aggressive about pushing their own agendas in the last year.
In the coming months, the three leaders must decide on a school construction plan, which could cost $10 billion. They must also work out a way to refinance the Transportation Trust Fund, a task that may ultimately involve the politically volatile move of increasing the gasoline tax.
In addition, the governor, who last year became the first state official to acknowledge that New Jersey State Police discriminated against minorities, must follow through on her pledge to overhaul the department.
Mr. DiFrancesco said that those issues would make for a busy schedule in coming months, and that the governor could still unveil major initiatives when she released her budget proposals this month. "I think people are wrong to say she is a lame duck in 2000," he said. "The year 2001, that might be true, but she's still got the power and she's still calling the shots."
Just last month, for example, the governor proposed spending $100 million a year to provide health insurance for 125,000 low-income residents, using money New Jersey will receive as part of the national settlement with tobacco companies.
Today, the governor repeated her promise to work as hard during the final two years in office as she did during the first two, and her staff members say Mrs. Whitman often reminds them that nearly 25 percent of her time in office lies ahead. To those who were disappointed that the governor's address was short on grand gestures, her aides say it is simply good policy for the state to continue her focus on improving New Jersey's business climate.
"This is an indication of her success," said Michael P. Torpey, her chief of staff. "It's a chance to solidify her gains and look forward."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman greeting Assembly Speaker Jack Collins after her State of the State address. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; AGED; ENVIRONMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NJ); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELDER LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX LAW (76%); BUDGETS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); AGING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TRENDS (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); ABORTION (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



307 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Britain Says Health Makes Pinochet Unfit for Trial
Britain said medical tests showed that Gen. Augusto Pinochet was unfit to stand trial in Spain on charges of crimes against humanity and that it was inclined to drop the extradition case against him and let him return to Chile. A1 

Seeking Women's Help in Chile
Ricardo Lagos, the Socialist presidential candidate, is making an 11th-hour effort to gain the women's vote in hopes of winning a runoff election against Joaquin Lavin, a former aide to Gen. Augusto Pinochet and once considered a long shot. A10
 
U.S. Pledges Aid to Colombia
The Clinton administration announced a $1.3 billion, two-year emergency aid package to fight narcotics in Colombia, deepening American involvement in that country's long war against narcotics traffickers and rebels. A4
 
Barak Breaks Silence on Talks
Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, speaking in a television interview, said the peace talks with Syria had reached a decisive stage in which both sides would have to make difficult decisions. A3
 
A Trial Over the Holocaust
The revisionist historian David Irving delivered his opening statement in the libel case he brought against an American author and her British publisher. Mr. Irving, who has said that Hitler did not approve the mass killing of Jews, says his reputation was irrevocably damaged by the book's assertions that he is a Holocaust denier who manipulates history to serve his own ends. A7
 
China Is Pressed on Rights
The Clinton administration said China's human rights record had continued to deteriorate and that the United States would again sponsor a United Nations resolution criticizing Beijing for crackdowns on political dissent and religious freedom. A10
 
Russia Reviews Battle Plan
Russian officers provided accounts of the fighting in Shali that has alarmed Moscow and prompted a close review of Russia's military strategy in Chechnya. The rebel offensive has raised questions of whether Chechnya can ever be made fully secure for Russian forces. A3
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A12-21
 
Court Backs States' Rights In Age-Discrimination Case
The Supreme Court ruled, 5 to 4, that Congress lacked the authority to bind state governments to a federal law that bars bias against older workers. It was the first of five federalism rulings due this term. A1
 
The justices heard arguments on the Violence Against Women Act. A18
 
Expanding a National Monument
President Clinton declared more than 1,500 square miles along the Grand Canyon's northern rim a national monument, doubling the size of federally protected land there. A12
 
Greater Tax Aid for the Poor
President Clinton plans to propose a $2 billion-a-year increase in the earned income tax credit for 19 million families living below or just above the poverty line. A17
 
McCain's Plan for Taxes
Senator McCain proposed a tax cut half the size sought by Gov. George W. Bush and pledged that as President he would seek a Congressional vote on a plan to overhaul the Social Security system in his first year. A20
 
Postage Rate Rise Proposed
The Postal Service's Board of Governors proposed raising the price of a first-class stamp by 1 cent, to 34 cents, early next year. A16
 
U.S. May Not Sell Its Nickel
The Energy Department is backing away from a plan to sell its stock of surplus nickel, a metal used in stainless steel and other alloys, because of concern that the material, left over from nuclear weapons manufacture, may be too radioactive. A17
 
Fatal Journey for Stowaways
Officials in Seattle said 3 of 18 stowaways died in cargo containers aboard a ship from Hong Kong. Hong Kong authorities pledged a crackdown on such trafficking in illegal immigrants, which is on the rise. A1
 
I.N.S. Delays Repatriation
The I.N.S. said it would extend its Friday deadline for returning Elian Gonzalez to Cuba. Although the decision came a day after a Florida judge granted temporary custody to a relative of the boy's in Miami, the I.N.S. said it retained jurisdiction. A12
 
Students' Expulsions Stand
A federal judge upheld the expulsions of six students who brawled at a football game in Decatur, Ill. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Economic Boom Would Fuel Pataki's Spending Plans
Governor Pataki proposed a $76.8 billion budget that relies heavily on the state's prosperity to finance higher spending for schools, environmental projects and prison construction and an array of tax cuts. B1
 
An Emphasis on Technology
Governor Whitman, in her sixth annual address to the New Jersey Legislature, proposed $100 million in new spending to help researchers convert their scientific advances into thriving businesses, and to help train "the high-tech work force of tomorrow." B5
 
New Hudson Bridge Urged
The Tappan Zee Bridge has become so dilapidated and is so congested that it should be torn down and replaced with a new eight-lane bridge with commuter rail tracks at a cost of $4 billion, a state panel said. B1
 
Judges Hear Museum Case
Three federal appellate judges questioned City Hall's rationale for cutting funds for the Brooklyn Museum of Art over an exhibition of art that many people found sacrilegious. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
OBITUARIES B10-11
 
EDUCATION B12
 
Challenge to School Board
Mayor Giuliani called on the Board of Education to turn over some troubled schools to private companies to "see who does a better job." B7
 
ARTS E1-12
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Bid for Jets Accepted
Robert Wood Johnson IV, an heir to the Johnson & Johnson fortune, agreed to pay $635 million to buy the Jets from the Leon Hess estate. A1
 
New Faces in Cooperstown
Catcher Carlton Fisk and first baseman Tony Perez were elected to baseball's Hall of Fame. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
The Merger and Microsoft
Antitrust experts said the America Online-Time Warner merger could figure into the calculations that a federal judge makes on sanctions against Microsoft, if it loses its antitrust case, or in settlement talks. A1
 
America Online is hoping to use Time Warner's extensive cable television systems to deliver torrents of digital data to consumers. C1
 
CBS News Using Virtual Logos
CBS News has used digital technology to insert its logos into various scenes, making it appear that the logos are attached to real objects. The insertion of digital images, often done in sports and entertainment shows, has generally been considered out of line on news shows. CBS officials said their use of the technology did not raise ethical concerns. A1
 
Bank's Credit Card Problems
Bank One issued a profit warning, its third in five months, saying earnings could decline about 19 percent this year largely because of continuing troubles in its credit card division. C1
 
Bonds Drag Stocks Down
Stock prices fell sharply in heavy, volatile trading, as rising long-term interest rates helped to persuade investors to sell equities. C13
 
Business Digest C1
 
DINING F1-12
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: George Pataki, centrist; round one at Shepherdstown; another loss on states' rights.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E10
 
TV Listings E11
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather C24
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); SPAIN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

COMPANY: I N S (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: I N S (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); SPAIN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES GENOCIDE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WOMEN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HISTORY (73%); FAMILY (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (71%); LIBEL & SLANDER (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); WRITERS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); TAX LAW (65%); PUBLISHING (65%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (65%); RELIGION (65%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (64%); NATIONAL PARKS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); OLDER WORKERS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); EHUD BARAK (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



308 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES;
With Help in Time of Trouble, a Reason to Dance

BYLINE: By ROBERT WADDELL 

 BODY:
At the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve, Olga Castro's attention was so full of watching her 44-year-old son Alexander, who is gradually recovering from schizophrenia, that to her, the dropping of the ball in Times Square and the Year 2000 bug went almost completely unnoticed.
"He danced merengue and salsa," Ms. Castro said. "I was so happy." 
 Alexander, her second son of eight children, has been treated in the Bronx Psychiatric Center since March 1999, but he was allowed to spend the holiday with his family. Ms. Castro is hoping that his return home will soon become permanent.
It was in November 1998 that a roller-coaster ride of trouble almost left Ms. Castro homeless and unable to find proper medical treatment for her son.
Ms. Castro, a 66-year-old of Ecuadorean descent, has lived for the last five years in a Housing and Urban Development project on 10th Avenue, near 51st Street, in Manhattan. She lived there for four years with her youngest son, now 24. When he moved out early last year, she said, HUD demanded that she pay back rent for her son since he lived with her; rent is based on income, but Ms. Castro was paying rent based on only one income. In the end, the amount she owed was nearly $4,480.
"The problem is," she said, "my pay is low and the rent is high." Ms. Castro said she has worked part time in a Queens envelope factory for the last 11 years, now earning $260 a week, which is supplemented by Social Security benefits.
In early November 1998, the rent arrears were mounting. Then around Thanksgiving, she got word from the Ecuadorean Government that her son would be granted a visa to come to the United States, where she hoped he would be able to obtain better treatment for schizophrenia. She said she was only given a week to get to Ecuador to act on the visa.
Alexander arrived in early December a year ago, and Ms. Castro's daily worries began to mount. "I couldn't leave him alone because I live on a high floor," she said. "He'd cross the street without looking -- he needed me the most."
So, later in the month she voluntarily left her job to see if she could find proper medical attention for her son. According to Ms. Castro, her employer said she could take three months of unpaid leave but could lose her job if she did not return to work by March 1999.
She took her son to Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan and Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx. She said the hospitals were willing to help but since her son was a new arrival to this country, he was not entitled to benefits yet.
"At that time," Ms. Castro said, "I had three problems: my son, my rent and my job."
Ms. Castro prides herself on the fact that she has never applied for welfare or unemployment benefits. She said she preferred to work and earn a living in the country she became a citizen of six years ago. "But," she said, "to be a mother, one is obliged to ask for help."
She went to a local office of Mobilization for Youth, a community group, which referred her to the Community Service Society, which receives money from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
The society paid two months of Ms. Castro's back rent. She paid $1,000 from her savings, and the society helped to get the amount of back rent she owed reduced. She is now almost debt-free.
Last March, Ms. Castro had her son admitted to the Bronx Psychiatric Center and that same month went back to work.
She still has mixed feelings about having her son treated at a hospital, but she said, "He needed more love, more attention."
In the three months that Ms. Castro was unemployed, she lived from savings and help from her daughters in New Jersey and Florida. Her son's hospital bills are now being paid by Medicare.
"I pitied him," Ms. Castro said. "At the same time, I'm satisfied that they'll take good care of him. Give him medicine. He will continue his rehabilitation; it's a huge step. I know in the hospital he has a 90 percent chance to be cured."
Now, Ms. Castro says she waits in hope for her son's return home later this month. She said she needed to get him a bed and nightstand for his room. And, she said, she is proud that as her son's general health improves, so does his responsibility when he actively takes part in his own recovery. To her, it is a great relief when he responsibly requests his medication from his mother.
This optimism continues when Ms. Castro thinks back to New Year's Eve, when her son danced. She also remembers that she played Lotto for that evening.
"I had to try my luck," she said. "If I won, I would help all the people who are desperate in life, all the people who need help like me."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded $4,683,236.80
Recorded Tuesday $75,517.37
 
Total $4,758,754.17 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ECUADOR (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NY BRONX PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NY BRONX PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ECUADOR (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; SCHIZOPHRENIA SCHIZOPHRENIA (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); CHILDREN (76%); SICK LEAVE (75%); HOSPITALS (73%); THANKSGIVING (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (63%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (57%); CITIES (53%); 

PERSON: WADDELL, ROBERT; CASTRO, OLGA; CASTRO, ALEXANDER OLGA CASTRO (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



309 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN 2000: THE CONFEDERATE FLAG;
McCain Effort to Straddle Sensitive Southern Issue Leaves Position Unclear

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
Over the last three days, Senator John McCain has made three conflicting statements on the Confederate battle flag issue raging in the key primary state of South Carolina, and with each statement, his position has become less clear.
On Sunday, speaking on the CBS News program "Face the Nation," Mr. McCain said he considered the battle flag "offensive" and a "symbol of racism and slavery." 
 The next day, in a statement distributed to South Carolina reporters, Mr. McCain reversed himself and called the flag "a symbol of heritage," using the precise language that white Republicans have used in the state to justify keeping the flag flying over the statehouse. Aides said he had misspoken in the television interview.
Then last night, in an interview in New Hampshire, Mr. McCain reversed himself again, saying that if he said he sees the flag a symbol of heritage, he misspoke.
"My forfathers fought under the Confederate flag," Mr. McCain said. "I believe that they believed their service was honorable."
But the statement calling the flag a symbol of heritage has been on his campaign Web site for two days, and was distributed as a news release by his staff. His top South Carolina strategist, Richard M. Quinn, said earlier in the day that Mr. McCain had called the flag a symbol of heritage "at least 150 times in the past."
But while the phrase "symbol of heritage" may sound innocuous outside the South, its meaning is unmistakable in a region where conflicting interpretations of the Civil War are often as important as any contemporary political issue. Saying the flag is a symbol of heritage rather than a reminder of racism, is an argument made by those who say the war was not fought over slavery, but over state's rights.
Although Mr. McCain, like the other major Republican candidates, has declined to take a position on the specific issue of whether the flag should fly over the South Carolina statehouse, his characterization of the flag's symbolism makes him the only major presidential contender to empathize with the flag's supporters.
"When whites say heritage in the South, they are generally referring to a heritage in which black people are excluded," said Bernard Powers, a professor of history at the College of Charleston. "In the best possible light, the senator is just trying to be political, but I fear that he is uninformed about a critically important element of American history and its legacy for contemporary times."
The flag issue is enormously volatile in South Carolina, which is holding a Republican presidential primary on Feb. 19 that is crucial to Mr. McCain's hopes for the nomination. The N.A.A.C.P. has declared an economic boycott against the state as long as the flag flies over the capitol, but Republicans in the state House of Representatives have blocked any attempt to move it.
In declaring the flag a symbol of heritage, Mr. McCain, an Arizonan, has taken a more conservative position than his chief rival for the Republican nomination, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas or any other major candidate. When he is asked about the flag issue in South Carolina, Mr. Bush has repeatedly said the matter was for South Carolinians to decide. On Monday night, he told MSNBC in an interview that he would not fly the Confederate flag over the Texas statehouse "because of the symbolism."
But Mr. McCain has much closer ties to the leaders of the pro-flag movement. One of the most prominent members of the so-called Heritage Movement in the state, who has helped organize the campaign to keep the flag flying, is Mr. Quinn.
Mr. Quinn, the editor in chief of the neo-Confederate magazine Southern Partisan, is the father of state Representative Rick Quinn, the majority leader, who has said the flag will not be lowered as long as the N.A.A.C.P. boycott is in effect.
The elder Mr. Quinn said yesterday that he had not pushed Mr. McCain to support the flag. But the emotions sweeping the state are intense and may explain why Mr. McCain felt the need to issue a formal statement.
Although the business community is lobbying hard to remove the flag, most of the Republicans in the legislature -- who represent white disnecessary to win the primary -- are fervently in favor of the flag.
Mr. McCain's written statement, which also appeared on his Web site, was his first on the subject, and was issued quickly after he seemed to suggest on Sunday that he found the flag offensive.
"The Confederate flag is offensive in many, many ways, as we all know," he said on the CBS program "Face the Nation" on Sunday. "It's a symbol of racism and slavery. But I also understand how others do not view it in that fashion. My forbears from Mississippi fought under the Confederate flag. They were not slave owners, and I'm sure they considered their service -- one I believe died in Shiloh -- was honorable. So, I obviously understand why many Americans find it offensive."
A day later, he issued a statement apparently intended to correct the impression that he finds the flag offensive, and it was that most recent statement that appears to align him with the flag supporters.
"As to how I view the flag, I understand both sides," he said in the statement. "Some view it as a symbol of slavery; others view it as a symbol of heritage. Personally, I see the battle flag as a symbol of heritage."
But when asked last night why he said he saw the flag as a symbol of heritage, Mr. McCain said, "If I said it, I misspoke."
He added, "My forefathers fought under that flag. I know that they thought their service was honorable."
John Weaver, Mr. McCain's political director, said last night that Mr. McCain had used the phrase many times but was referring to his relatives' service in the Confederate army. "He's talking about the heritage of his family," Mr. Weaver said. "That's different from heritage that some may see it as -- a sign of segregation or political issues."
Mr. Quinn said in an interview yesterday that Mr. McCain had misspoken on Sunday by not saying the flag was offensive "to some people." He added that Mr. McCain has often said in the past that he considers the flag a symbol of heritage, but had never issued a formal, written statement of his position before. Several political reporters in South Carolina confirmed that they had heard Mr. McCain describe the flag as a symbol of heritage over the past year.
Mr. Bush has several pro-flag supporters in his camp, as well, including Charlie Condon, the state attorney general, co-chairman of Mr. Bush's South Carolina campaign. But none are as well known for their ideology as is Mr. Quinn, whose quarterly magazine has become a leading journal of the notion that the Civil War was not fought over slavery.
A recent issue, the cover of which shows a man reading an Uncle Remus book to his grandchildren, contains a list of the 15 best Southern books of all time. Though the list includes Faulkner, Robert Penn Warren and Margaret Mitchell, most are apologias for the Southern cause, and none is by a black writer.
"The magazine takes the view that the flag should be regarded as a symbol of heritage, rather than slavery," said Mr. Quinn, who was the Rev. Pat Robertson's media adviser in 1988. "Many Southerners believe that there are positive aspects to Southern history, without having to link everything to slavery. Taking down the flag or hiding it or treating it in a dishonorable way turns the banner over to the racists on both sides. It helps define the flag as something ugly and evil rather than something that memorializes the heroism of these young men who fell for the South, most of whom were not slaveowners."
But the word "heritage" means something different to South Carolina's blacks, most of whom do not vote in the Republican primary.
"It's a word kind of like 'choice' or 'life' in abortion, a code word to mean certain things that people don't want to come right out and say," said Dr. Lonnie Randolph Jr., president of the Columbia branch of the N.A.A.C.P., who oversees the group's economic sanctions against the state. "Of course the flag has to do with heritage, but it's a heritage of white supremacy and racism. Too many people are in denial about what the heritage really is." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); 

CITY: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; BLACKS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; CIVIL WAR (US) (1861-65) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); HISTORY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); BOYCOTTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN) JOHN MCCAIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



310 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton Faults Giuliani On Disposition

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Repeating a theme that her campaign is likely to use more frequently, Hillary Rodham Clinton used a trip to upstate New York today to criticize Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, her likely Senate opponent, as temperamentally unsuited to represent New York in the Senate.
Speaking to reporters after greeting shoppers at a supermarket here, Mrs. Clinton sought to portray Mr. Giuliani as an official who is perpetually battling those with whom he has disagreements, and who would not fit well into the demeanor of the Senate. 
 "You may have an ally one day who is not for you the next day," Mrs. Clinton said of the Senate. "But you have to be willing to keep working with everybody. You can't walk into the Senate and have a disagreement with somebody and say that you're going to fire them or sue them."
Her comments were similar in tone to remarks she made about a month ago in which she chided Mr. Giuliani for what she called his tendency to be consumed by anger.
"It certainly is clear that there have been so many controversies and difficulties," Mrs. Clinton said, referring to Mayor Giuliani's tenure in City Hall. "The most recent is what has been going on in the schools once again. Two schools chancellors couldn't get along with him and are now gone.
"And, you know, at the end of the day, that's a lot of wasted energy," the first lady continued. "People ought to be working together to solve problems, particularly when it comes to our children."
Mrs. Clinton had a full day of campaigning, beginning at the supermarket in the center of the city, flanked by Mayor William A. Johnson Jr. and Sandra Frankel, the town supervisor of the suburb of Brighton.
Mrs. Clinton was the house guest last night of Ms. Frankel, who ran last year for the Democratic nomination for lieutenant governor.
At the market, she spoke with shoppers about their families and economic issues in the area. She also bought some low-fat cheese.
In the afternoon, Mrs. Clinton traveled to Hobart and William Smith Colleges, in Geneva, a picturesque town in the Finger Lakes region. There she spoke at a gathering of more than 2,000 students and residents on service and volunteerism. In tone, it was less of a campaign event then a discussion on service, similar to the so-called listening tours that were a mainstay of the first lady's early foray into New York politics.
Although she has not made her candidacy official, the first lady said that she expected to make an announcement early next month.
Mrs. Clinton also said that she would be appearing at headquarters of the the Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network next Monday to participate in a program honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on the holiday that bears his name.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: While campaigning in Rochester, Hillary Rodham Clinton made a stop at Wilson Commencement Park, a transitional housing center, where she caught the attention of Ruth Dupree, 8 months old, and Ida Weaver. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ROCHESTER (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); CHILDREN (70%); FAMILY (69%); SUBURBS (62%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (93%); AL SHARPTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



311 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN 2000: McCAIN ON TAXES;
Entering Fray on Republicans' Issue of Choice, the Senator Pitches His Tax Proposal

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H., Jan. 11

 BODY:
Calling it "the essence of true conservatism to be fiscally responsible," Senator John McCain today proposed a tax cut half the size of the one sought by Gov. George W. Bush and pledged that as president he would seek a Congressional vote on a plan to overhaul Social Security by the end of his first year in office.
Presenting a plan whose outlines have emerged over the last few days, Mr. McCain not only sharpened his differences with Mr. Bush, but also challenged the longtime tax-cutting orthodoxy of the Republican Party. 
 His proposal borrowed from Democrats and Republicans alike, with its $237.5 billion in tax cuts over five years of a size that could be embraced by Democrats and its call for part of Social Security to go to individual retirement accounts, a favorite idea of Republicans.
Despite the ideological mix, Mr. McCain pitched the plan for his party's true believers, using the words "conservative" and "conservatism" 11 times in a speech before the local Chamber of Commerce.
"My plan is a conservative economic plan," he said. "It encourages savings, so working families can plan for their future. It saves Social Security and pays down the national debt so that we can honor our commitment to our children and future generations."
To pay for his tax cut and still set aside much of the projected federal surplus to extend Social Security's long-term solvency, Mr. McCain said he would eliminate $151.7 billion in corporate tax breaks over five years, a task that would at best be politically difficult on Capitol Hill and at worst could result in open warfare between regions and corporate interests.
"So let the warning go out, let the warning go out to the army of lobbyists who so stoutly resist our campaign," said Mr. McCain, echoing one of his persistent themes. "Every tax dollar now wasted on special breaks for oil companies, ethanol giants, insurance companies and the multitude of other powerful special interests with their armies of lobbyists are now at risk."
A list of tax breaks that he said could be eliminated included tax-exempt bonds for sports stadiums, special provisions for publishing, special tax breaks for multinational corporations and tax-free treatment of certain building industry costs.
The proposal represented a bet by Mr. McCain that even among Republican primary voters economic prosperity has made Social Security a greater concern than tax cutting.
"Make no mistake, we can afford a tax cut and American taxpayers deserve one, but it must be a tax cut promise that a leader can keep," Mr. McCain said, in a jab at Mr. Bush, who has proposed a $483 billion tax cut over five years.
Mr. Bush, campaigning in Michigan and South Carolina, cast the debate as a battle over the size of government.
"Do we want bigger government, or do we want reasonable government?" asked Mr. Bush, whose own tax plan would cut rates in all income brackets. "Bigger government or not? My concern is if we leave money on the table in Washington, it will be spent on more government."
With their competition intensifying daily, the McCain and Bush campaigns each released blizzards of paper to put their own tax cut plan in the most favorable light, sometimes using different assumptions and picking and choosing the best cases to make their political points.
Mr. McCain, for instance, noted that a "lucky millionaire" currently paying about $325,000 in taxes would get a tax cut of $3,500 under his plan and a tax cut of $50,000 under Mr. Bush's plan.
Mr. McCain said that his plan, which has as its centerpiece a substantial expansion of the 15 percent tax bracket so it would apply to couples earning up to $70,000 annually, would make 25 million more taxpayers subject to the lowest tax rate.
The Bush camp argued back that this would not benefit the 70 million taxpayers already in the 15 percent bracket. And Bush advisers said many middle-income families would not use another feature of Mr. McCain's plan, an I.R.A.-like "family savings account" in which families could defer taxes on up to $6,000 in savings annually.
"If you simply expand the 15 percent bracket, there are a lot of people who are not going to get tax relief under this plan," Mr. Bush said.
In fact, Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a research organization that is often critical of Republican tax plans, said Mr. McCain's proposal would provide little or no benefit to the three-fifths of taxpayers with income less than $39,000 a year. Mr. McIntyre said 72.5 percent of the tax cuts would go to taxpayers making $65,000 to $319,000 a year.
But Mr. McIntyre said Mr. McCain's plan was most different from Mr. Bush's proposal in how it treated the very wealthiest taxpayers, the 1 percent with annual incomes of $319,000 and above. The Bush plan would give 36.9 percent of its tax reductions to that group while the McCain plan would give 1.8 percent of its benefits to that most affluent group.
As he began a new trip through New Hampshire, a state with many retirees, Mr. McCain put much of his emphasis on shoring up the Social Security system for the coming retirement of the baby boomers, saying, "Social Security has been so grossly politicized that success will require all our best efforts."
He chastised both parties for making the retirement system into a political hot potato.
"Democrats will have to stop using the issue to scare seniors into voting against Republicans," he said. "Republicans will have to resist using Social Security revenues to finance tax cuts. And both parties must stop raiding retirement dollars from the trust fund to waste on new spending."
Mr. McCain called for 20 percent of the Social Security payroll tax to be placed in individual retirement accounts in which workers would be able to choose from an approved list of investment options. He said they would also be guaranteed that they would never get less in benefits than if they had stayed in the current Social Security system. To pay for the transition to such accounts, Mr. McCain would devote $729 billion of the non-Social Security surplus over 10 years to Social Security.
He pledged that if elected president he would forward his principles of reform to Congress his first week in office and ask for a formal endorsement of them. Then he would summon the Social Security trustees and the bipartisan leadership of Congress to "submit a plan that I will insist be voted upon by the end of my first year in office."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain presenting a tax cut proposal yesterday. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CONSERVATISM (92%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); FAMILY (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); INSURANCE (50%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MITCHELL, ALISON JOHN MCCAIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



312 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Share Prices Drop Sharply For AOL and Time Warner
The stock prices of both America Online and Time Warner tumbled a day after their merger was announced. Shares of AOL fell $6.75, to $64.50, while Time Warner declined $5, to $85. The problem in the short term is that the stock of the new company, AOL Time Warner, falls somewhere between the traditional valuation of Time Warner and the much higher "Internet valuation" of America Online. And there has not been much demand for such stocks. Floyd Norris: Market Place. Page C7. 

Despite investor reaction, AOL Time Warner promises to be a formidable power, perhaps more powerful in some ways than Microsoft. The deal changes none of the facts in the government case against Microsoft, but antitrust experts say it could figure into potential sanctions or settlement talks. A1.

CBS Imports Logos Into Broadcasts
CBS News is digitally importing images promoting the network into its broadcasts. News show logos that appear real are being inserted on the sides of structures, on the back of a horse-drawn carriage in Central Park and in the fountain outside the Plaza Hotel. Inserting digital images has become increasingly common in sports and entertainment programming but has generally been considered out of line on news shows. A1.
 
Bond Yields Pull Down Stock Prices
Stock prices fell sharply as rising long-term interest rates helped to persuade investors to sell equities. The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 61.12 points, to 11,511.08. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 128.48 points, or 3.2 percent, to 3,921.19, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 19.04 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,438.56. C13.
 
Bond prices fell as investors worried about how hard the Federal Reserve will have to step on the brakes to slow the economy down. The yield on the 30-year bond jumped to 6.67 percent from 6.59 percent on Monday. C13.
 
Club Med Posts 48% Jump in Profit
Almost two years after a major management shake-up, Club Mediterranee announced a 48 percent jump in 1999 earnings and said it would resume paying a dividend for the first time in three years. Philippe Bourguignon, the former Disney executive who was named chairman and chief executive of Club Med in 1997, said Club Med's goal was to double its size by 2003 to become a "services company with activities in the fields of leisure and entertainment." C4.
 
Jets Are Sold for $635 Million
Robert Wood Johnson IV, an heir to the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical empire, won the right to buy the New York Jets for $635 million. The offer beat the $612 million bid by the chairman of Cablevision. A1.
 
Service to Store Music on Internet
In a move that threatens the recording industry's attempts to control the distribution of music online, MP3.com plans to start a service that will enable customers to store music online. That could make it easier for users to swap copyrighted music over the Web. C2.
 
Ecuador's Dollar Plan in Doubt
A plan by President Jamil Mahuad of Ecuador to replace the nation's currency with the U.S. dollar won approval from the central bank after its three highest officials resigned to protest what they called an irrational change of policy. The resignations intensified the confusion about the plan. C4.
 
Big Thoughts Without Big Money
Living without the security of an endowment and working out of donated office space, the Peter F. Drucker Foundation for Nonprofit Management survives on the quality of its educational offerings to nonprofit organizations. Fred Andrews: Ideas Into Action. C10.
 
Increase in Postage Recommended
The Postal Service's Board of Governors proposed raising the price of a first-class stamp by 1 cent, to 34 cents, early next year. The board also proposed raising the rate for periodicals by an average of 12.6 percent. A16.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,511.08 down 61.12
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.67% up 0.08
The euro -- $1.032 up 0.01
The dollar -- 105.99 yen up 0.79
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of America Online shares since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (94%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); CU (PAR) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (94%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); RECORD REVENUES (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



313 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA MEGADEAL: THE BEHEMOTH;
Merger May Produce the Rival Microsoft Has Always Dreaded

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
To the company's adversaries, the very name "Microsoft" suggests menacing power. It has been called the Death Star, an 800-pound gorilla and far worse.
And in the government's sweeping antitrust case, the Microsoft Corporation was portrayed in convincing detail as a monopolistic bully. America Online Inc., in particular, was bent to Microsoft's will, according to court testimony. 
 But after America Online's move on Monday to buy Time Warner Inc., at $165 billion the largest merger in history, Microsoft suddenly seems less threatening -- less the irresistible army of the Internet era. AOL Time Warner, as the new company is to be called, promises to be a formidable power in its own right, perhaps more powerful in some ways than Microsoft.
Microsoft, to be sure, quickly gained the upper hand a few years ago in its first Internet battle -- against the Netscape Communications Corporation, which America Online bought last year. Microsoft saw Netscape, the pioneer in Web browsing software, as a threat to its dominance of personal computing. Microsoft's response was swift and aggressive -- and, according to the Justice Department and 19 states, against the law.
America Online's deal for Time Warner changes none of the facts in the Microsoft antitrust case, of course. And Microsoft's business practices, not simply its size, are at issue. But antitrust experts say the merger could figure into the calculations the court makes on sanctions against Microsoft, if it loses the case, or in any settlement talks.
"If Microsoft is an 800-pound gorilla, then there is certainly another beefy gorilla out there now," William Kovacic, a professor at the George Washington University law school, said. "This deal does underline the possibilities for upheaval and transformation in this industry. That could well make it more difficult for a judge to choose a remedy that has dramatic, irreversible effects, like breaking up the company."
If completed, the America Online-Time Warner merger would create a powerhouse for the next phase of Internet business -- that of selling information and entertainment services to consumers who may tap into them using digital cell phones, hand-held devices and television set-top boxes in addition to personal computers.
Even before the Time Warner deal, America Online had been bulking up to prepare for this so-called post-PC era with a multibillion-dollar investment campaign in the last couple of years. These acquisitions -- undertaken since the Microsoft antitrust suit was filed and made to strengthen AOL's network technology and to add services -- include Netscape; Compuserve; MovieFone; MapQuest.com; and a $1.5 billion investment in General Motors' Hughes Electronics unit to promote satellite delivery of Internet services.
Microsoft, meanwhile, has gone on its own multibillion-dollar investment spree, much of it to secure assured distribution for high-speed Internet access over telecommunications and cable television networks, both in the United States and abroad. In the last year alone, Microsoft invested $5 billion in AT&T, $660 million in Nextel, $500 million in NTL and $300 million in United Pan-European Communications.
Yet in the online business, Microsoft is in the unfamiliar position of playing David to America Online's Goliath. In the online access market, in which subscribers pay fees, Microsoft's MSN service had nearly two million members in the third quarter last year. That compared with 18 million for America Online, according to Jupiter Communications, a research firm.
America Online says it now has 20 million subscribers; Microsoft did not disclose its current numbers.
Microsoft does have some popular World Wide Web sites, like its Expedia travel and Carpoint auto sites, which can be reached by users through any Internet access service. Yet even by the measure of number of visitors to its Internet sites, Microsoft trails America Online badly. According to Media Metrix, which monitors Web traffic, America Online's Web sites had 54 million visitors in November, compared with 38 million for Microsoft's sites.
Microsoft has also made some media investments, including a joint venture with NBC in MSNBC, the cable and online news service.
But recently, Microsoft has shifted from efforts to become a media company. Instead, it has tried to build up its Web offerings to deliver personalized information online -- e-mail, news, stock prices, travel advice, even horoscopes -- that people use to become "more productive" in their everyday lives, just as Microsoft's popular Office software makes people more productive at work.
"The new strategy for MSN is about taking us back to our roots -- but twisted and adapted for the Internet," Brad Chase, a Microsoft senior vice president explained in a recent interview before the AOL-Time Warner deal was announced. "There are parts of the media business that we do, selling ads and so forth. But our main focus is not going to be on creating content and media, which is what we had been trying to do for a couple of years."
Microsoft's senior executive team met on Monday to discuss the implications of America Online's move -- a proposed merger that makes America Online a media company. So is Microsoft rethinking its strategy yet again -- as the richest company in the world, it can afford virtually any acquisition -- or does it plan to stick to pursuing its very different Internet strategy?
"Bear in mind, we've had one day to chew on it," Mr. Chase said yesterday, "but I think this deal is kind of positive for us in a way. It reinforces the very different road we're taking.
"AOL is saying that its primary anchor is going to be media," he added. "Our primary anchor is going to be services and software distributed over the Internet that will help consumers run their lives better, make them more productive."
To help revive its online business, Microsoft recruited a new executive last fall, Richard Belluzzo, to head the company's consumer group. He came from Silicon Graphics, where he had been chief executive, but Mr. Belluzzo was probably best known for his previous work at Hewlett-Packard, where he built the consumer printer and consumer personal computer businesses.
Microsoft insists that the Internet business is still quite new and that America Online's lead is by no means insurmoutable. "As a mass-market consumer medium, the Internet is just beginning to emerge, and it will be accessed from many devices other than the PC," Mr. Belluzzo said last month. "People talk about all the subscribers AOL has, but in a few years we will look back and say those numbers are trivial."
Certainly, in the markets where Microsoft has engineered come-from-behind winners, the company has followed a formula: make competitive products, but also change the economics of the target market.
In office productivity software, for example, Microsoft once trailed Lotus in spreadsheets and Wordperfect in word processing. Microsoft not only steadily improved its products, Excel and Word, but also bundled them into a single Office suite and sold the bundled offering at about the same price as rivals were charging for a single office application.
In browsing software, Microsoft gained market share from Netscape as it improved its offering, Internet Explorer. But Microsoft also changed the economics of that market by bundling Internet Explorer with its industry-standard Windows operating system and giving the browser away free. In the antitrust case, the Government has charged that the bundling and free distribution were predatory practices, which Microsoft denies.
So does Microsoft plan to try to follow the same formula, and change the economics of the online market? In the recent interview, Mr. Belluzzo said that Microsoft has spent months improving its online software and services offerings. "Those building blocks are pretty much in place," he said.
"But," Mr. Belluzzo added, "changing the economics is certainly part of our strategy. We will begin an aggressive marketing and recruitment program, probably in February, and that effort will include incentives to switch."
The online discounts Microsoft has offered to date have been made through retailers and PC makers, discounts of $400 if users sign up for three years of MSN service. But the discount must be applied to the price of a new computer bought from a retailer or manufacturer. America Online has matched such offers, but only with its Compuserve service, not its flagship AOL service.
Such competition is crucial, analysts say, because despite the evolution toward a post-PC era of high-speed Internet services and a variety of devices for gaining access, the PC will probably remain the main gateway for many people for years.
Analysts say that an obvious, if aggressive, next step would be for Microsoft to offer its $400 rebates for three years of service directly to consumers. For the richest company in the world, it would represent a clear effort to buy market share, though offering steep discounts to consumers is not necessarily an antitrust issue.
Microsoft would not comment on its coming marketing plans. But analysts say that the America Online-Time Warner deal could change the atmosphere and embolden Microsoft to make such moves.
"Microsoft has been bruised and bloodied in its antitrust fight with the government," said Adam Schoenfeld, an analyst at Jupiter Communications. "I think it has restrained itself rather than be cast as the bad guy. But this AOL-Time Warner deal may free Microsoft up to be more aggressive, just to keep up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)
 
Chart: "Clash of the Titans"
Microsoft may have won the initial skirmishes in the Internet browser wars against Netscape and America Online, but it now faces a much more formidable foe in the proposed AOL Time Warner.
 
COMPANY SIZE (Billions of dollars)
 
MICROSOFT
REVENUE (Latest four quarters): $20.4
EARNINGS: $8.3
MARKET CAPITALIZATION (Yesterday): $564.4
EMPLOYEES: 32,902
 
AMERICA ONLINE
REVENUE (Latest four quarters): $5.2
EARNINGS: $0.5
MARKET CAPITALIZATION (Yesterday): $143.1
EMPLOYEES: 12,100
 
TIME WARNER
REVENUE (Latest four quarters): $26.6
EARNINGS: $1.2
MARKET CAPITALIZATION (Yesterday): $110.6
EMPLOYEES: 70,000
 
COMBINED
REVENUE (Latest four quarters): $31.7
EARNINGS: $1.7
MARKET CAPITALIZATION (Yesterday): $253.7
EMPLOYEES: 82,100
 
CONSUMERS REACHED (in millions)
 
MICROSOFT
 
HOME PC'S USING MICROSOFT OPERATING SYSTEMS (Worldwide): 145
MSN'S U.S. SUBSCRIBERS (3rd Quarter): 2
MSN TOTAL VISITORS (November): 38
MSNBC.COM TOTAL VISITORS (November): 7
 
AOL TIME WARNER
 
MAGAZINE READERS: 120
AOL'S U.S. SUBSCRIBERS (3rd Quarter): 18
AOL TOTAL VISITORS (November): 54
H.B.O. SUBSCRIBERS: 35
CABLE SUBSCRIBERS: 13
(Sources: Company reports; International Data; Jupiter Communications; Media Metrix)(pg. C6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); TWX (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER CORP; NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS INC; AT&T CORP AOL INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (94%); TIME WARNER INC (84%); MAPQUEST.COM INC (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICA ONLINE; TIME WARNER CORP; NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS INC; AT&T CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (88%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (75%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERNET BROWSERS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); CYBERBULLYING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); SATELLITE BROADBAND SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ;LOHR, STEVE NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



314 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 5; Workplace 

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: TRENDS;
Making It Here and Making It There: The Income Sweepstakes

BYLINE: By ALISA TANG 

 BODY:
It may come as consolation to Manhattan residents that though they endure some of the highest rents in the country, they also make more money than people elsewhere. Their average annual pay of $62,838 in 1998 was almost twice the national figure of $31,908 and smartly ahead of the nearest challengers in Fairfield, Conn., and Santa Clara, Calif., according to preliminary data released last week by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Not only that, but Manhattan -- or New York County, since the study compared counties -- ranked fourth in pay growth, adding an average $4,172 to residents' annual compensation. However, it didn't make the list of biggest percentage gainers; smaller locales like Travis, Tex., and Boulder, Colo., took top spots in that category. Such places benefited from their positions as centers of the new economy computer, telecommunications and financial-services industries, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at RFA Dismal Sciences, a consulting firm in West Chester, Pa. Travis, he pointed out, is home to Dell Computer. 
 The lowest-paid Americans live in regions where old industries like agriculture and automobiles hold sway. At the bottom was Hidalgo County, Tex., with average annual pay of $20,717. Hidalgo is dependent on Mexican shoppers and may have suffered from the weak Mexican economy in the period covered, Mr. Zandi said. ALISA TANG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph/Map shows top five U.S. counties by average annual pay and growth in pay. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) DELL COMPUTER JAPAN (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TRAVIS (TEX); BOULDER (COLO); HIDALGO COUNTY (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: TANG, ALISA MARK ZANDI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



315 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: An Immigrant's Legal Enterprise;
In Suing Employer, Maid Fights Diplomatic Immunity

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
As a maid for a high-ranking diplomat from Bahrain, Shamela Begum says she was kept a virtual prisoner in a high-rise apartment on Manhattan's East Side. For almost nine months, she was forbidden to go out alone, she says, and forced to work seven-day workweeks for meager wages that she never got to see herself.
So about four months ago, Ms. Begum, a mother of three from Bangladesh, illiterate and in many ways ill-prepared for the modern world, made a bold escape. She was on a rare trip outdoors with her employer's wife when, by chance, she heard a sidewalk fruit vendor speaking her native Bengali. As soon as the diplomat and his wife had left town later that day, she slipped out of the apartment, summoned a little boy to show her how the elevator worked and found her way back to the vendor, to whom she poured out her tale. Within days, she managed to get out for good. 
 Then, mustering more courage, Ms. Begum took a typically American route to justice: she sued.
Ms. Begum, however, faces a hurdle other ill-paid laborers seeking redress do not face: because her former employer is a diplomat, he is potentially beyond the reach of the American courts.
In a rare effort to hold an official of a foreign government accountable to the laws of the United States, Ms. Begum has accused the diplomat who employed her, Mohammed Saleh, and his wife, Khatun, of flagrant state and federal labor law violations. Filed last month in Federal District Court in Manhattan and seeking unspecified damages, the suit also accuses the Salehs of a civil charge of false imprisonment. The most serious charge accuses the couple of keeping Ms. Begum in indentured servitude.
Ms. Begum's lawyers say they are seeking to push the legal envelope. Although diplomats serving in a foreign country are required to abide by the host country's laws, they are immune from legal action, both civil and criminal, according to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
"Our position," said Ms. Begum's lawyer, Chaumtoli Huq of the Asian-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund in Manhattan, "is that hiring an employee to clean your house and watch your children is not related to consular functions and should not be immune from federal and state law."
To date, Ms. Begum's accusations are just that; no witness can corroborate her version of events.
Mr. Saleh is second secretary at the Bahraini Mission to the United Nations, in effect the No. 3 official there. He did not return repeated telephone calls seeking comment. Several calls placed recently to other officials at the Bahraini Mission in New York and to the Bahraini Embassy in Washington were also not returned.
Last week, a lawyer for the defendants, David Wohabe, hung up the phone when asked to comment. The defendants have until Jan. 24 to respond to the charges in court.
But the lawsuit has already produced results. In Washington, State Department officials, aware of Ms. Begum's claims, said they were preparing a detailed new memorandum spelling out the obligations of United Nations diplomats toward their domestic workers. The department is also drawing up a brochure meant to inform those domestic workers of their rights in this country, officials said.
Ms. Begum's bewildering journey -- as described in interviews and court documents -- began a little more than a year ago in Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital. The wife of a vegetable vendor, she had never worked outside her home. She had only seen how friends and neighbors went abroad, found work and returned with money to build a house or set up a business of their own.
In November 1998, after contacting an employment broker, Ms. Begum, who is in her mid-30's, decided to make the trek herself. Unable to read or write, she pressed her thumbprint on an employment contract that promised a job as a domestic worker in the desert monarchy of Bahrain.
"I thought maybe I can improve myself if I go abroad," she said in rapid-fire Bengali the other day. "I thought my kids will say, 'My mother sacrificed so I could do something.' "
In Bahrain came the first surprise. Her employer, she said, told her that she would soon be working for his brother in New York. State Department records show that on Dec. 2, 1998, Ms. Begum went to the United States Embassy in Manama, the Bahraini capital, where she was given a visa allowing her to work as a live-in maid for Mr. Saleh. According to an employment contract reviewed by embassy officials, Ms. Begum was to earn minimum wage -- $5.15 an hour -- and to be provided free room and board, State Department officials said.
The gross domestic product of Bangladesh, one of the world's poorest countries, is about one-tenth that of Bahrain, an oil-rich hereditary monarchy in the Middle East that has a shortage of laborers.
Ms. Begum arrived in New York on Dec. 13, 1998. That day, Ms. Begum contends, the Salehs took away her passport. Her salary, roughly $100 a month, was sent directly to her husband in Dhaka, she says, adding that she did not get paid for her last two months on the job. Indeed, she says, she had not seen any type of American currency until recently.
When her employers left town, she contends, they left little or no food. On one occasion, she says, Mrs. Saleh struck her with a glass. Ms. Begum, who speaks only Bengali, communicated with her employers in a mix of broken Arabic and Bengali. For many months, her family did not know where she was.
Worst of all, Ms. Begum said, she was allowed to leave the apartment only three times, accompanied by the Salehs for short walks in the neighborhood. On most days, she stared out the windows of their apartment near the United Nations building. And she wept.
"Who could I tell? I just cried," she said. "I didn't even feel the wind, see the trees. They wouldn't let me see another human being."
There are nearly 800 migrant domestic workers with special visas allowing them to work for United Nations officials in New York, State Department officials said. Many other workers, government officials say, are brought here illegally.
Martha Honey of the Institute for Policy Studies, a research organization in Washington that has taken up the cause of domestic workers employed by officials at foreign embassies and international agencies, said it was not uncommon for maids to have their passports taken away, to be barred from contacting friends and to earn salaries of $100 to $400 a month.
In recent years, a handful of lawsuits have been filed, seeking back wages and damages, she said. A few have been settled out of court; others have been thrown out because diplomatic immunity was upheld.
Ms. Begum said it was impossible to escape her predicament. She knew no one in New York. She could not read street signs. She had no money. What she had instead was a mounting $1,400 debt for her passage out of Bangladesh -- a daunting sum in that country, where the per capita income is less than $300.
On her third and last outing with Mrs. Saleh, to a supermarket one day last August, she overheard a conversation in Bengali among some sidewalk fruit vendors. Mrs. Saleh, she recalled, pressed her not to dawdle. " 'Quick, quick,' " Ms. Begum recalls her saying. " 'America bad. America bad.' "
Nonetheless, when the Salehs left town later that day, she left the apartment alone for the first time.
Working the elevator was the first hurdle. She had never been on one by herself before, and so she stood there as the door repeatedly closed and opened on the same floor. A boy finally helped her get downstairs.
Ms. Begum retraced her steps to the fruit vendor and told him her tale. The vendor contacted Thikana, a Bengali-language weekly newspaper published in Queens. A reporter for the paper contacted a South Asian workers' rights group called Andolan -- the Bengali word for "movement."
On Aug. 30, a member of Andolan, Nahar Alam, showed up at the Salehs's apartment. At Ms. Alam's request, officers from the 17th Precinct took a complaint alleging false imprisonment.
Because the Salehs had diplomatic immunity, they were not arrested, a police spokesman said, though the Police Department made no determination as to whether the case, based on its merits, could be prosecuted.
State Department officials said recently that they would have sought a waiver of immunity from the government of Bahrain had the police referred the case for prosecution.
"The State Department's position is to react to cases where prosecutors want to proceed but need a waiver to do so," said Robert Moller, minister counselor for the department's Office of Host Country Affairs.
Ms. Begum left the Salehs's apartment for good the day the police came. Now in the country illegally, she has yet to gain control of her destiny, though her circumstances are markedly better. With help from Andolan, she found a job as a live-in maid for a family in Pennsylvania, earning $1,100 a month. It is a luxurious amount by Bangladeshi standards. And while conditions are hardly perfect -- she gets a three-day weekend once a month, for instance -- she can feel her earnings in her own hands. Finally, she says, she feels as if she is working. For now, she does not want to give that up.
"It doesn't suit me, being here, being away from my children," she said, wrapping a polyester scarf around her head and shivering in the crisp winter wind the other day. "It's just for the money I'm here. Just for the money."
How long she will remain in the United States is unclear. She hopes to return with enough money to set up a small business for her two sons, ages 10 and 15, to run when they are older. She has married off her daughter, now 17 and uneducated like herself. Under no circumstances, she says, will she let her come to the United States to work.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shamela Begum came from Bangladesh to be a maid, but says that for almost nine months she was kept as a virtual prisoner in a high-rise apartment by her employer, a diplomat. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map shows path of Shamela Begum's Journey to New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BAHRAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN; BAHRAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN SERVICE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY IMMUNITY (90%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); LAWYERS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); DAMAGES (71%); LITIGATION (71%); WITNESSES (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (66%); REFUGEES (65%); CRIMINAL FALSE IMPRISONMENT (52%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; BEGUM, SHAMELA; SALEH, MOHAMMED; SALEH, KHATUN MOHAMMED SALEH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



316 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2972 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW BRASSERIES;
Yearning For Paris, Finding It Just Around The Corner

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT 

 BODY:
I SLIPPED into a corner booth, surrounded by burnished wood and brass, gleaming white tile and silvery mirrors. No-nonsense waiters in white aprons threaded among the crowded tables with platters held high. The mood was convivial, with the clink of glasses and silverware against the happy buzz of conversation. Plateaus of oysters glistened on the bar, charred steaks with golden fries were being delivered to diners all around me. And I started on one of the dishes I love most in the world: frisee aux lardons, a salad of bitter curly endive, poached egg and chunks of bacon.
It was the quintessential Parisian experience. Except that I was on lower Ninth Avenue. 
 In fact, so many brasseries have opened in New York in the last year or so, you can think of almost any neighborhood as an arrondissement. Besides Pastis in the meatpacking district, carefully detailed brasseries have opened in SoHo, on the Upper East Side, in Midtown and the theater district. And many more New York restaurants are copying the brasserie in one way or another.
Although today's brasseries -- in both Paris and New York -- are more about wine than beer, the word itself is actually French for brewery. The early brasseries were beer halls at major intersections in Paris, opened by Alsatians, many of whom fled their province as the Germans invaded in 1870. By the late 1800's, the Belle Epoque, they had become elaborate and fashionable late-night spots. Paris has hundreds of brasseries, some with famous names, like Lipp, La Coupole, Bofinger and Julien.
There is bit of a brasserie tradition in New York, too, with places like L'Absinthe in the East 60's and Les Halles on Park Avenue South, which have been around for about 10 years. Many New Yorkers also remember the original Brasserie, in the Seagram Building, which just reopened.
But Keith McNally led the modern resurgence here. He set the standard when he opened Balthazar, which captured the brasserie look and spirit to perfection, down to the hours -- from breakfast through late night -- and now he has expanded with Pastis. Since then, he has been joined by many others, including Restaurant Associates, which in addition to the Brasserie, plans to open Brasserie 8 1/2 next month on West 57th Street.
Philippe Feret, who opened Brasserie Julien and Acacia Brasserie last year on the Upper East Side, said: "I was tired of formal dining rooms, and I wanted to do something that was more fun, with good food and reasonable prices. That's the way I think people like to eat now, so it's becoming a trend."
The sudden popularity of brasseries does show how dining in New York has relaxed, and not just downtown, where ties have always been loosened, if not discarded. Meal times are no longer rigidly set in the city, with places like Gramercy Tavern offering a midafternoon menu. Brasseries, with their "anything, any time" attitude, fit right in. They also reflect a growing appreciation of simple, everyday French food.
Unlike bistros, which tend to be cozy and intimate neighborhood spots, brasseries are large, noisy and throbbing with energy. The menu is usually a compartmentalized broadsheet that invites customers to pick and choose everything from steamed mussels to rib-sticking cassoulet. Both bistros and brasseries do emphasize basic cooking -- escargots, duck confit, sauteed calf's liver and sole meuniere -- which may be one reason they are often confused. But brasseries have a stronger Alsatian influence, with dishes like choucroute and onion tart.
Jean-Paul Bucher, the president of the Groupe Flo, which owns 16 brasseries in Paris, describes them as "popular and democratic, with big menus that always had something for everyone, from laborers to intellectuals." In a telephone interview last week, he said: "You can spend the day in a brasserie from morning to night. They're institutions that have evolved less than other kinds of restaurants -- they're more or less unchanged."
Groupe Flo, whose historic properties include Balzar, La Coupole, Vaudeville and Le Boeuf sur le Toit, plans to open its first modern brasserie, Les Grandes Marches, at the Place de la Bastille in September.
In New York, the original Brasserie, on East 53rd Street, was developed by Restaurant Associates in 1959 and operated around the clock. It may have been the first restaurant in America to serve quiche, but the Philip Johnson design looked nothing like a brasserie, with its table-height bar, Picasso plates on the walls and modern woodwork. It closed after a fire in 1995 and now has a totally new look.
Until Mr. McNally's breakthrough, other brasseries struggled for recognition. In the 1980's, a New York version of Paris's Coupole opened on East 32nd Street and was a failure. (Reviewers skewered it for its mediocre food and arrogant service.)
Alan Stillman originally opened Cite, near Rockefeller Center, as a brasserie in 1989, but it did not succeed until he changed the concept to a steakhouse.
"We ran up against the recession," he said. "But I'm convinced New York was not ready. A brasserie is young, and not for Midtown businessmen or tourists from the Midwest. I'm not sure even Balthazar would have made it in Midtown in those days."
One of Mr. Stillman's problems may have been that in trying to create the ultimate brasserie he didn't achieve a classic look, and wound up with a brasserie fit for Versailles, with prices to match.
Not everyone understood the original Brasserie, either, said Nick Valenti, the chairman of Restaurant Associates. The Brasserie's $5 million makeover, by Liz Diller and Ricardo Scofidio, now looks at once retro and futuristic. It has translucent Granny Smith-green resin tables, banquettes with backs soaring to the undulating wood ceiling, a backlit bar and video monitors that capture diners as they enter and descend the floating glass staircase.
It borrows none of the Parisian references of the city's other brasseries. Julien, Acacia and even L'Absinthe were do-it-yourself projects by owners who used materials and accessories imported from France. Mr. McNally designed Balthazar and Pastis himself, scouring flea markets here and in France and having some details reproduced, like the railings. Eric Demarchelier described the new Houston Street branch of Demarchelier, his bistro on the Upper East Side, as "more brasserie than bistro." And his design looks it.
Although classic brasserie style is easy for restaurateurs to replicate, some do hire architects like David Collins, for BrasserieBit in the theater district, and Morris Nathanson, for Rue 57, on West 57th Street.
The food is sometimes a little more difficult to keep on a traditional track.
At the Brasserie, now open only from 6:30 a.m. to 1 a.m., light dishes like steamed mussels, croque monsieur sandwiches, fish soup and burgers are served through most of the day. But the chef, Luc Dimnet, who is from Strasbourg, in Alsace, has added more global fare like lobster salad with sambal dressing, penne puttanesca, and pho, the Vietnamese oxtail noodle soup.
"The classic French stuff is pretty heavy, so I reworked the brasserie concept with some French-colonial touches and Asian spices," Mr. Dimnet said.
At more traditional brasseries in New York, the menu classics, like quiche Lorraine and cassoulet, prevail. Some places like Les Halles and L'Absinthe and Acacia are also trying to tempt patrons with time-honored but exotic items like tete de veau (calf's head terrine), pig's feet and blood sausage. And at the same time, they are venturing into new territory. Julien serves ostrich burgers, Les Halles offers hanger steak marinated in ginger and L'Absinthe teams tuna steak with miso vinaigrette.
But brasseries are still as much about drinking as eating. "The brasserie is emerging in New York now because of the rebirth of bar life in a convivial atmosphere," said Michael Batterberry, a co-founder of Food Arts magazine, who wrote "On The Town in New York" (Routledge, 1999) with his wife, Ariane. "The tone of a brasserie is set at the bar, not the table."
There are other reasons for the brasserie revival, Mr. Batterberry said: "They're great for young people who move in packs. The sushi generation can understand the raw bar. Another factor has been the evaporation of strict meal times."
True to their brewery roots, today's brasseries, here and in Paris, offer an array of beers, mostly Belgian and many on tap. But wine is the more popular beverage. "We sell much more wine than beer at Balthazar and Pastis," Mr. McNally said.
As for the historic brasserie emphasis on beer, Belgian places like Waterloo and Markt have the longest lists. BrasserieBit, a partnership with a German brewery, Bitburger, features its beers on tap and in a number of French dishes like roast chicken with a black beer sauce. (Gerard Renny, one of the owners, also owns Brasserie Americaine near Lincoln Center.)
Mr. Feret, at Julien and Acacia, has four Belgian beers on tap. But he has four inexpensive French varietal country wines also on tap, sold by the glass and the carafe.
Even as traditional brasseries have taken hold in the city, American translations have evolved as well. The Odeon in TriBeCa opened nearly 20 years ago. "We didn't think of it as a brasserie when we opened it," said Lynn Wagenknecht, an owner. "But it has become one."
In the latest Zagat survey, the sprawling Redeye Grill near Carnegie Hall is identified as an American brasserie. It has the space, the raw bar, the extended hours and the crowds. Metrazur, opening next week in Grand Central Terminal, is billing itself as an American brasserie.
Even Guastavino, the 300-seat restaurant Sir Terence Conran is opening next month in the Bridgemarket on the far East Side, is in the brasserie mode, as are many of the Conran mega-restaurants in London, said Joel Kissin, a partner. "Before doing Qua glino, I sat in all the big brasseries in Paris," he said. "I wanted to take the energy and the history of Parisian brasseries and reinterpret them in modern terms." Guastavino will have a raw bar, a varied menu (fish and chips to Cuban stew) and an informal atmosphere.
Philippe Lajaunie, an owner of Les Halles, said a brasserie does not have to be French. He defined the Globe, a big place near Les Halles, with a diner-style menu, as a type of brasserie. "It's the spirit and the easygoing ambience that counts," he said. "If you think about it, where a French town had a brasserie, in America you have diners."
 
ONION TART
Adapted from the Brasserie
Time: 1 hour 30 minutes
 
2 cups all-purpose flour, more for rolling
Salt
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 pound medium yellow onions, halved and thinly sliced
1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves
 1/2 cup dry white wine
Freshly ground black pepper
4 large eggs
1 cup milk
1 cup heavy cream
Pinch of nutmeg.
1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Combine flour with 1/2 teaspoon salt, and whisk to blend. Add 6 tablespoons butter, and cut in until it resembles large crumbs.
2. Add 4 to 6 tablespoons ice water, mixing until dough can be gathered into a ball. On a lightly floured surface, roll out dough to about 11 inches in diameter, and place it in a 10-inch fluted tart shell. Refrigerate.
3. In a large skillet over medium-low heat, melt remaining butter. Add onions and thyme, and saute until onions are soft and golden. Add wine, and increase heat to medium-high. Simmer, stirring, until wine evaporates. Season to taste. Remove from heat, and set aside.
4. Combine eggs, and whisk lightly. Add milk and cream, and blend. Season with nutmeg and salt and pepper. Pour into tart shell. Scatter onions evenly over tart. Bake until filling is set, about 30 minutes. Cool briefly before serving.
Yield: one 10-inch tart (8 servings).
 
BEET, ENDIVE AND WALNUT SALAD
Adapted from Balthazar
Time: 2 hours 30 minutes
 
6 medium beets, trimmed and washed
 3/4 cup walnut halves, toasted
5 tablespoons mild olive oil
2 tablespoons walnut oil
4 tablespoons red wine vinegar
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
3 Belgian endives
 1/2 cup Roquefort cheese, crumbled
 1/2 cup (lightly packed) Italian parsley leaves, coarsely chopped
1 firm, ripe pear.
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Wrap beets individually in foil, and place on a baking sheet. Bake for 2 hours. Peel beets while they are still warm by holding them under cold running water and rubbing off skins. Cut beets in half, then into 1/2-inch wedges. Set aside.
2. In a small bowl, combine olive oil, walnut oil and vinegar. Mix well to blend, and season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
3. Slice endives in half lengthwise. Remove bottom core, and cut endives into 2-inch pieces. In a large mixing bowl, combine endive pieces, Roquefort cheese and parsley. Mix lightly, and set aside.
4. Quarter pear lengthwise, and remove core from each quarter. Slice pear very thinly lengthwise. Add the slices to bowl of endive, and immediately add olive oil mixture. Toss lightly. Add beets to mixture, and toss just enough to distribute them evenly. Transfer salad to plates, and serve.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
MEDITERRANEAN FISH SOUP
Adapted from Brasserie Julien
Time: 1 hour 15 minutes
 
5 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
3 pounds white-fleshed fish fillets (red snapper, grouper, monkfish, cod), cut into 1-inch squares
10 to 12 large cloves garlic, peeled
2 carrots, diced
2 small onions, peeled and diced
1 leek, white part only, diced
 1/2 cup diced fennel bulb
 1/2 cup Pernod or Ricard
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 pinch saffron threads
1 bay leaf
Salt
1 6-inch piece of baguette, thinly sliced
1 cup mayonnaise
Freshly ground black pepper
Cayenne pepper.
1. In a large (6-quart) casserole or soup pot over medium heat, warm 3 tablespoons olive oil, and add fish. Saute until fish is opaque, transfer to a bowl, and set aside.
2. Dice 6 cloves of garlic. Rinse and dry pot, and return to medium heat. Heat 1 tablespoon oil. Add diced garlic, carrots, onions, leek and fennel, and saute until tender. Return fish to pot, and add Pernod. Take a long kitchen match, and carefully hold it to the contents (avert your face). When flames die, add 3 quarts water, tomato paste, saffron, bay leaf and salt to taste. Simmer uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 45 minutes.
3. Puree soup using a food mill or food processor. Strain mixture through a fine strainer into a clean pot, and set aside. Rub baguette slices with a whole garlic clove, then brush them with remaining olive oil. Toast slices in oven or under a broiler. Prepare a garlic mayonnaise by mincing 2 or more cloves garlic and mixing with mayonnaise. Thin mayonnaise with a bit of soup.
4. To serve, reheat soup and season to taste with salt, pepper and cayenne pepper. Serve soup hot, garnished with a spoonful of garlic mayonnaise and toasted baguette slices.
Yield: 4 quarts (6 to 8 servings).
 
MACKEREL IN WHITE WINE
Adapted from L'Absinthe
Time: 30 minutes, plus overnight refrigeration
 
2 1/2 cups dry white wine
3 tablespoons red wine vinegar
1 bunch fresh thyme
1 1/2 teaspoons unflavored powdered gelatin
1 carrot, sliced
1 large Spanish onion, peeled and thinly sliced
6 mackerel fillets, 6 to 8 ounces each
Salt and freshly grpound black pepper
6 bay leaves
6 thin slices of lemon.
1. In an enameled or other nonreactive saucepan, combine wine, vinegar and thyme. Place over high heat to bring to a boil, and cook for 5 minutes. Add gelatin, carrot and onion, and simmer for another 3 minutes. Pour through a strainer into a heatproof bowl, and set aside.
2. Place mackerel fillets skin side up in a flameproof baking dish. Pour hot wine mixture on top, and season with salt and pepper. Place a bay leaf decoratively on each fillet, anchoring one end with a slice of lemon.
3. Place baking dish over high heat to bring wine mixture to a full boil. Immediately remove pan from heat. Cover with aluminum foil, and cool to room temperature. Refrigerate pan overnight.
4. To serve, place a fillet on each of six serving plates. If desired, serve with frisee salad or potato salad.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
FOIE DE VEAU PERSILLE
Adapted from Brasserie Les Halles
Time: 35 minutes
 
4 slices trimmed calf's liver, cut 1/2 inch thick, about 8 ounces each
Fine sea salt and crushed black pepper
Flour for dredging
1 tablespoon canola, peanut or mild olive oil, more as needed
3 tablespoons butter, more as needed
4 large shallots, peeled and chopped
 1/4 cup minced Italian parsley
4 1/2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
6 ounces veal demi-glace (see note).
1. Season each side of liver slices with salt and crushed pepper to taste. Dredge lightly in flour, and shake off excess. Set aside.
2. In a large saute pan over high heat, combine 1 tablespoon oil and 1 tablespoon butter. Add liver slices in a single layer (they may need to be cooked in batches). Saute until crisp and brown on outside and rare in center, 1 to 2 minutes a side. Transfer to a warm platter. Repeat with remaining slices, adding more butter and oil if needed.
3. Pour excess oil from pan, and place pan over medium heat. Add shallots, and saute until golden. Transfer shallots to a bowl, add parsley and mix. Set aside.
4. Place saute pan over high heat, and add vinegar. When vinegar has almost evaporated, add demi-glace. Reduce, stirring, until it is thick and opaque. Add 2 tablespoons butter, whisking until incorporated. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
5. To serve, place a slice of liver in center of each plate, covering lightly with sauce. Top each with an equal amount of shallot and parsley mixture. If desired, serve accompanied by mashed potatoes.
Yield: 4 servings.
Note: available at specialty food stores.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A recipe for beet, endive and walnut salad on Jan. 12 with an article about new brasseries in New York omitted an instruction for one ingredient. In Step 3, the toasted walnut halves should be combined with the endive pieces, Roquefort cheese and parsley.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HOW IT STARTED -- The old brasseries of France, right, have inspired New York imitators. IS THIS PARIS? -- No. Pastis, top, is in the meatpacking district. OLD LINE -- L'Absinthe, above, is on the Upper East Side. WINE TALK -- Above left, Domaine Weinbach, in Alsace. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times (top and center right); Vincent Kessler for The New York Times (center left) )(pg. F1); BRASSERIE JULIEN, -- top, serves mussels the French way, plus ostrich burgers and wine on tap. PASTIS, -- above left, was decorated with French flea market finds. BALTHAZAR, -- above center, in SoHo, has the timeless look of a classic French brasserie. BRASSERIEBIT, -- above right, in the theater district, has German beer on draft. THE BRASSERIE, --right, is starkly modern in decor but serves simple French dishes throughout the day. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times (above and above right); Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times (oval); Vincent Laforet for The New York Times (far left); Boyd Hagen for The New York Times (top) )(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); ALSACE, FRANCE (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

COMPANY: BRASSERIE JULIEN (NYC); PASTIS (NYC RESTAURANT); BALTHAZAR (NYC); BRASSERIEBIT (NYC RESTAURANT); BRASSERIE (NYC RESTAURANT) RESTAURANT ASSOCIATES CATERING (52%); RESTAURANT ASSOCIATES CORP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRASSERIE JULIEN (NYC); PASTIS (NYC RESTAURANT); BALTHAZAR (NYC); BRASSERIEBIT (NYC RESTAURANT); BRASSERIE (NYC RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FRANCE; ; UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); ALSACE, FRANCE (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (70%); THEATER (67%); BREWERIES (66%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE ACACIA BRASSERIE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000



317 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 5; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: A Day at the Start-Up, a Night at the Opera

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MANDELL 

 BODY:
THE four friends had met in college and moved to New York two years ago to make it as performers, as young people have done for generations. But on a recent Sunday, they were participating in a series of meetings of an Internet start-up company, a company so new it did not even have a name yet.
What it had was a concept -- an all-powerful, all-purpose, artificially intelligent concept -- that they called Wally. 
 "We have to get across the concept of Wally, to create that buzz before it launches," said the company's chief marketing officer. "Maybe we can get Al Sharpton to do a series of ads arguing with Wally. Yes, Wally's omnipotent, but if someone disagrees with him, it makes him more human."
Given the dot-com madness, the meeting was almost plausible. But in fact, it was a spoof. The 12 people around the conference table were making all of it up on the spot for an advanced class in comedy improvisation. But an Internet start-up company is not just something for them to joke about. Seven of the people in the class, including the four friends, actually have day jobs in the computer business, which is becoming an attractive alternative to waiting tables for many aspiring performers.
The next day, Ari Voukydis, who had been playing the information services director, started his first day on the job as an editor at Bolt.com, which bills itself as "one of the Internet's most popular hangouts for high school and college students." It is just the latest of his online jobs.
In his new job, Mr. Voukydis joined Peter Olson, an old Wesleyan classmate who was the chief applications developer in the improvisation and has worked as a designer for Bolt.com for six months. A third friend, Chad Carter, who played the chief technology consultant, works as a programmer for Comvision.com, a Web design firm.
And the fourth friend, who goes by the stage name Dyna Moe and was playing the art director, freelances as a Web graphic artist and designer. Several more students in the class also have online or technology jobs. Only one waits tables.
That so many members of this one class of performers have online jobs has a lot to do with their ages. Almost all of them are in their early 20's. "We sort of grew up with computers," Mr. Olson said, "and that's where the jobs are."
But older performers are getting into the act as well. For Sal Midolo, 35, a classically trained singer with steady work in church choirs and light opera companies, working with computers has been a return to an old love that has brought new income. "When I was in college," Mr. Midolo said, "my music teachers used to say, 'You're spending too much time on your computers.' " When he moved to New York a decade ago, he gave up computers completely.
But four years ago, Mr. Midolo bought a new computer and had a Rip Van Winkle experience. He discovered the new world of graphics programs. In the next few years, he studied his way up from Microangelo to Photoshop, then to 3D Studio Max, a program used to create special effects in film and television (like the 3-D baby on "Ally McBeal"). Now he is starting to get freelance work, but he is aiming to be hired at an animation house.
And his singing career? He paused. "I'm not sure where it's going to go," he said. "I know I still get a sense of satisfaction from it."
It is hard to come by concrete statistics about how many performing artists find day jobs in technology industries, but some say the two pursuits make a good fit. "Working online makes a lot of sense for performers," said Kathy Schrier, the head of the Actors' Work Program, a project of the Actors' Fund of America. The program has been assisting performers of all kinds since 1987 to find what Ms. Schrier calls "dignified sideline careers."
Most performers, whether actors, singers, dancers, stand-up comics or musicians, must find other ways to make a living. "It's a tough, tough business," Ms. Schrier said. "You're always looking for work. There is high unemployment: as many as 90 percent are not performing at any given time. It's always temporary work; that's the nature of the business." Even permanent employees of repertory theaters, dance troupes, orchestras and opera companies perform for a season that lasts only part of the year.
For sideline careers, Ms. Schrier said, "professional entertainers want flexible, temporary work so they can go on auditions and so that when they get cast, they can leave their sideline job to perform."
Mr. Olson said Web jobs could fit into performers' lives. "The hours are long, but they're flexible," he said. "It's unheard of to clock in or clock out."
Computer jobs will not replace waiting tables anytime soon for professional performers, who number about 25,000 in New York City, according to New York State statistics, nor for the countless thousands more aspiring to become professionals. In 1998, the latest year for which state statistics are available, the city had 37,000 jobs in computer-related fields and 142,000 jobs in restaurants and bars.
But in the city and nation, computer-related employment is growing faster than occupations in any other industry, including the restaurant business, the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics reports. The number of workers in such jobs will more than double by 2008, while the overall economy will grow by 15 percent, the bureau says.
Some performers, like the ones in the comedy improvisation, turn to computers while they try to break into their profession. But others, like Frank Dellapolla, a 40-year-old dancer who now works full time as a computer systems analyst and developer at the brokerage Lazard Freres & Company, look at technology jobs as a way to make an elegant exit. Still others learn computer skills in the middle of their performing careers.
Danny Carr, 50, has had the quintessential nonlinear career in three decades as a singer, a dancer and an actress in Boston, Los Angeles and Washington. She moved to New York last July with her eye on Broadway.
She took classes offered by the Actors' Work Program in basic computer skills and now works in two sideline careers -- as a bartender in Broadway theaters (she is serving drinks at "Miss Saigon") and as a weekend proofreader of computer graphics at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. With the money she is making, she plans to buy her first computer. "My aim is to start a home-based business, for the flexibility and the income, and knowing computers will allow me to do that," she said.
Izzy Flores, 40, an actor and model who was previously a professional pianist and who was once nominated for a Grammy as a songwriter, got inspired when his brother-in-law gave him a hand-me-down Power Mac 6100 two years ago. With financing through the Actors' Work Program, Mr. Flores took some courses at the Parsons School of Design. Now, when he is not performing, he spends more than a third of his time (between auditions) designing CD covers for independent record companies.
Some performers complain that their technology jobs are a kind of tyranny rather than an opportunity, leading to a left brain-right brain clash between their need to make a living and their artistic bent. But Griff Braun, a dancer, doesn't agree.
"It's just a popular myth that there are two sides of the brain, a linear side and a spatial side, and that some people are creative and some scientific," said Mr. Braun, 31, who is both a dancer with the American Ballet Theater and a Webmaster and site designer. One of his Web clients is his dance company.
Ms. Carr agrees. "I know a lot of actors who know the technical aspect of the business," she said, "who, for example, can program the computers for the lighting design."
Of the 75 dancers in his company, Mr. Braun said, about 30 own computers. One of them, Tamara Barden, is as skilled with a computer as he is, finding time to create Web sites after performances and between rehearsals. "To me, putting together a Web site is a lot like putting together a dance," said Mr. Braun, who designed the ballet company's site. "It's just as creative."
Mr. Braun hopes that the often cited divide between art and business is as artificial as the one between art and technology; he is developing an Internet start-up, a dance education site. "Right now, I have a collection of names that I purchased, and I have a concept," he said, though it is not an all-purpose, all-powerful concept like Wally. He wouldn't even call it cool. "I'm not going for cool," he said. "I'm going for something useful."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Instead of taking temporary jobs as waiters, many aspiring performers are finding computer work. In an acting class at Upright Citizen Brigade Theater, far left, are Chad Carter, a programmer for a design firm, Dyna Moe, a Web graphic artist, and Ari Voukydis (also shown on screen), an online editor. Ted Read is the camera operator. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. G10); Computers are a sideline for Sal Midolo, shown in his office and, top, second from left at a "Pirates of Penzance" rehearsal. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 
 
 



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%); GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%); GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CULTURE; LABOR; ACTORS AND ACTRESSES STARTUPS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MUSIC (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (62%); VISUAL ARTS (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); 

PERSON: MANDELL, JONATHAN AL SHARPTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



318 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 13; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: REVIEW;
How the Web Changed the Smut Business

BYLINE: By BRUCE HEADLAM 

 BODY:

OBSCENE PROFITS: THE ENTREPRENEURS OF PORNOGRAPHY IN THE CYBER AGE
By Frederick S. Lane III
(Routledge; $27.50.)
 IT may have started as an academic exercise, but the Internet most days looks more like the top shelf of a corner-store magazine rack. From search results clogged with sex sites to e-mail boxes that fill up with "XXX" subject lines to innocent-looking links that lead to red-light sites, pornography seems inescapable online. And, to the dismay of most parents, the Internet does not come wrapped in plain brown paper. 
 Have centerfolds simply migrated to the Web, or has there been a more profound shift in the nature and the influence of pornography? In "Obscene Profits: The Entrepreneurs of Pornography in the Cyber Age," Frederick S. Lane III argues the latter.
Modern technology, from deregulated phone services to the Internet, changed the pornography business and has enabled pornography to make an impressive advance into the mainstream. For the cost of a server and a Web cam, anyone can become an online pornographer.
A new wave of entrepreneurs, including, Mr. Lane tells us, many women, is threatening the hegemony of old-style men's publications like Playboy and Penthouse with not only the sheer amount of online images but also their explicitness.
"It's a nightmare out there," Larry Flynt, the publisher of Hustler, told Forbes magazine in 1996. "This has to be affecting revenues of people like myself."
If Mr. Flynt is having nightmares, maybe we should all be scared. Mr. Lane estimates that there are between 30,000 and 60,000 sex-oriented Web sites and innumerable phone-sex lines, chat rooms and video mail-order services. The pornography industry is "an increasingly significant sector of the economy," he writes, grossing at least $10 billion a year in this country. That is more, the book says, than Americans spend on sports events and live music combined.
Mr. Lane, a lawyer with more than a touch of the moralist, will get a sympathetic reading from most casual Web surfers. One reason sex on the Web seems increasingly alarming is aesthetic. Online pornography isn't simply Playboy for people who think that staples ruin the mood. With its raunchy home-grown fare and pixelated images, the Net takes the velvet smoking jacket off pornography and replaces it with the technological crudity of an 8-millimeter film. Even "soft porn" images on the Web appear to have what Simone de Beauvoir called the "intention to defile." They not only look dirty; they feel dirty.
Depressing as all that may be, the ubiquity of sex sites does not mean that pornography has entered the cultural or financial mainstream, as Mr. Lane suggests. In fact, much of the evidence in his book suggests the opposite: that although pornography occupies the same niche on the Internet as in the rest of society, it is neither as prevalent nor as profitable as critics might think.
Let's start with the money. Pornographers may profit from obscenity, but the profits themselves aren't all that obscene. Although $10 billion may seem like a lot of money, compared with national vices like tobacco ($45 billion) or gambling ($50 billion), it is small potatoes. Some of the entrepreneurs Mr. Lane interviews make, at best, a reasonable living. Jane Duvall, who runs the popular Jane's 'Net Sex Guide site, said that she made more money at her previous job, handling advertising accounts at a newspaper.
The Playboy sites, which are among the most popular sex-related destinations on the Web, have yet to turn a profit. Internet Entertainment Group is probably the best known of the new class of pornography companies, thanks to its lucrative Club Love site and its nude pictures of B-list celebrities. Its founder, Seth Warshavsky, is often regarded in the press as a technological wunderkind, but his company has been continually frustrated in its attempts to go public on a Wall Street where the gold standard is just about anything followed by the dot-com suffix.
Other pornographic video and Internet companies that have gone public have hardly set the market on fire, so although investors may like the novelty of a stock certificate showing naked women, they would be better off buying bonds.
The problem with Mr. Lane's book is that it is long on history but short on historical perspective. Pornography has tried -- and failed -- to gain mainstream acceptance before, usually by attaching itself to another social current. Hugh Hefner built Playboy in the corporate image of 1950's Madison Avenue. In the early 70's, the sex-film business rose and fell in the wake of the sexual revolution. Today, as Mr. Lane's subtitle suggests, pornography attaches to the preoccupation with entrepreneurs, particularly online entrepreneurs.
But entrepreneurship, even in the digital age, has limits. Until recently, sex sites had been operating with limited opposition from the courts, aiming at a group that was demographically and psychographically handpicked for pornography (young, male, maladjusted) at a time when very few sites were making money.
Now, competition is squeezing profits, and Mr. Lane notes that pornographic sites that once charged $29.95 for monthly access are now hard-pressed to charge $10. And pornographic sites are facing more competition from the Web as a whole. As the online world continues to grow, pornography will probably occupy a smaller place in it.
Perhaps a more interesting question is what the social effects of the technology migration of pornography might be. To buy or see dirty pictures 15 years ago, you needed money, adult identification and no sense of shame. Today, all you need is a modem and a credit card. That means that marginal tastes, including dangerous ones like pedophilia, are more easily satisfied. But it could also mean that pornography's public blight -- the sex shops and peep shows -- will be reduced.
For both social conservatives who wanted Times Square cleaned up and for liberals concerned with the First Amendment, that would seem like a partial victory. Maybe that is why nobody seems happy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: 

Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OBSCENE PROFITS (BOOK)

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 3 TAX CUTS FOR ALL AMERICANS ACT (79%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); DEREGULATION (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); LITERATURE (71%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (57%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HEADLAM, BRUCE; LANE, FREDERICK S 3D FREDERICK S LANE III (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



319 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
Mamet? Innocence? Perversity Has Changed

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
David Mamet's work doesn't generally elicit feelings of nostalgia. Still, when Deborah and Danny, the briefly coupled characters in his comedy of manners from the 1970's, "Sexual Perversity in Chicago," go to bed together shortly after they meet (they arrange a dinner date afterward), the play, even with its wicked humor and gleeful vulgarity, creates a strangely innocent aura. In 1975, when it was first performed in New York, this one-act was shocking in its portrayal of the war between men and women as played out between 20-somethings in Chicago. The selfishness and suspicion, the fornication as foreplay, the extreme ungentleness with which the four characters -- two men and two women -- assault one another's self-esteem (and undermine their own) constituted a vicious satire of a world run amok with permissiveness.
Time goes, though, doesn't it? In the straight-faced revival that opened last night at the Atlantic Theater Company in Chelsea -- coupled, as it was a quarter century ago, with Mr. Mamet's youthful homage to Beckett, "The Duck Variations" -- the play recalls a post-sexual-revolution, pre-AIDS era in which there wasn't much at risk from profligate behavior except self-esteem. Which, in retrospect, doesn't seem like much at all. And as a result, "Sexual Perversity" -- in this production anyway -- seems more of an entertaining period piece than anything else, an almost campy artifact that would fit right in on "Nick at Night" if it weren't so "Midnight Blue." 
 Presented on Alexander Dodge's multitiered set, which manages to contain and economically suggest half a dozen separate rooms, the play uses brief, jittery scenes separated by blackouts to follow the consummation and subsequent courtship and breakup of Danny and Deborah as witnessed by their best friends. These are Bernard, whom Danny works with in a warehouse office, and Joan, the roommate Deborah leaves and then returns to when she moves in with and then out on Danny.
Bernard and Joan are the angrier pair. He is a vulgar sexist prone to explosive rants against the behavior of women, though he is equally ardent in admiration of their body parts; she, a schoolteacher, is prematurely bitter and prone to take out her frustrations on her preschoolers. Their bilious influence eventually reclaims the friends they were in danger of losing to love, leaving everyone energetically miserable at the end.
In the service of this story, the young actors are reasonably deft with Mr. Mamet's peppery rhythms (and salty language). The women seem period-perfect, managing to capture the 1970's-style of feminism, which found all manner of young women trying on newly encouraged postures of self-empowerment. Kate Blumberg plays Deborah as someone in the midst of trying to transform a perky, pliant girl into a tougher young woman with indignation at the ready, and Kristin Reddick, as Joan, finds the note of loneliness that makes her man-weary, world-weary posture transparent.
Clark Gregg (Bernard) and Josh Hamilton (Danny) -- perhaps because the dynamic of their relationship (boastful leader and marginally more sensible follower) is familiar in any generation -- have a harder time suggesting the era. Mr. Gregg actually brings a bit of 1990's detachment to the role of Bernard, an anachronism that doesn't help a character whose most salient feature is excess; Bernard's wild story about making love to a girl turned on by a military combat fantasy remains the play's most famous and funniest set piece. Still, anyone who fondly remembers wide striped ties, spread collars and polyester pants will feel instant camaraderie.
The Atlantic is celebrating its 15th anniversary with a seasonful of early plays by Mr. Mamet, one of the company's founders. ("The Water Engine" and "Mr. Happiness" were presented in the fall; "American Buffalo" is scheduled for a March opening.)
And "The Duck Variations," which introduces the evening, will be of interest particularly (if not exclusively) to followers of the playwright's career. It is something of an anomaly in Mr. Mamet's work, a series of seemingly benign conversation snippets between two old men on a bench looking out over Lake Michigan. The recurring subject is ducks -- their lives, their deaths -- and in the end, of course, the conversations suggest something both desperate and satisfying about the lives of the men themselves.
The play, written when Mr. Mamet was in his early 20's, winks appreciatively, even gratefully, at Beckett. But the competitive banter between the two old men also foreshadows Mr. Mamet's later persistent probing of abrasive male relationships. Held against Mr. Mamet's other plays of this type -- "American Buffalo" and "Glengarry Glen Ross," for example -- this is a trifle, but it is daunting for actors. Peter Maloney and John Tormey manage to sustain both the tension and humor of a friendship that must endure without much to talk about.
 
SEXUAL PERVERSITY IN CHICAGO and THE DUCK VARIATIONS
By David Mamet; directed by Hilary Hinckle; sets by Alexander Dodge; costumes by Rick Gradone; lighting by Robert Perry; production stage manager, Darcy Stephens; general manager, Bardo S. Ramirez. Presented by the Atlantic Theater Company, Neil Pepe, artistic director; Ms. Hinckle, managing director. At the Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 26th Street, Chelsea.
 
WITH: In "Duck," John Tormey (Emil) and Peter Maloney (George); in "Chicago," Josh Hamilton (Danny), Clark Gregg (Bernard), Kate Blumberg (Deborah) and Kristin Reddick (Joan).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Josh Hamilton and Kate Blumberg as a couple who get to bed before their first date in "Sexual Perversity in Chicago." The play is teamed with "The Duck Variations." (Carol Rosegg/"Sexual Perversity in Chicago")(pg. E1); Peter Maloney, left, and John Tormey in "The Duck Variations." (Carol Rosegg/"Sexual Perversity in Chicago")(pg. E9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SEXUAL PERVERSITY IN CHICAGO (PLAY); DUCK VARIATIONS, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); WOMEN (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; MAMET, DAVID; HINCKLE, HILARY; HAMILTON, JOSH; BLUMBERG, KATE; GREGG, CLARK; REDDICK, KRISTIN; TORMEY, JOHN; MALONEY, PETER DAVID ALAN MAMET (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



320 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: MAKING BOOKS;
Literary Advocates For Black Voices

BYLINE: By Martin Arnold 

 BODY:
Given the wild inconsistencies of book publishing, it should come as no surprise that in an industry populated mostly by liberal thinkers and based, finally, on an openness of thought and expression, there are only a handful of black literary agents. There is a huge growth opportunity for blacks who want to be agents, though, because agents are mostly self-employed and do not have to be hired by anyone but writers.
The few African-American agents are doing well, but publishing needs more entrepreneurial blacks and Hispanics who are interested in books and want to represent authors. More writing by and about African-Americans is in bookstores than ever before, and agents say that there are many more blacks trying to get published. 
 Which raises these questions: Do black literary agents face special challenges in an industry that is ruefully almost entirely white? Yes.
Do black agents feel a particular obligation to give priority to black clients? The answer, if for some a subliminal yes, also has a major caveat. The established black agents all have white clients, and they are business people who would smash just about anyone, regardless or race, on behalf of their writers. Black agents do not practice apartheid agenting.
That doesn't mean that they aren't mindful of special problems and contradictions. Black agents say they are often overwhelmed with unsolicited manuscripts from African-Americans who believe a black agent would be more receptive than a white one. Black agents welcome more black colleagues to share the load. On the other hand, it is not uncommon for a black agent to successfully establish a writer's career only to have the author switch to a white agent in the hopes of getting a better deal in a white industry.
Denise Stinson, a highly respected black agent whose office is in Detroit, said, "White agents have told me that the reason they get black clients is the writer feels more validated with a white agent, or they feel it would be stupid to leave a white agent in a white industry for a black agent." But the reverse has also been true also, she said. Ms. Stinson has gotten black clients who left white agents, and has negotiated their biggest advances.
Ms. Stinson, who is also starting a small publishing house for Christian fiction, sells more than 30 books a year, three-quarters of them by blacks, and has had her best sellers, including Pearl Cleage's novel "What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day" (Avon, 1998). She would like to see more black editors, but she must sell mostly to whites, "who have been very receptive to African-American material and really fought for things for me." (The shortage of black editors is acute, and it is not a result of discrimination, but economics: entry-level jobs in publishing have such low salaries that few beginners without financial help can afford them.)
But black writers, and therefore their agents, have problems beyond the shortage of black editors. Ms. Stinson said: "Publishers are looking for material that can have a 100,000-copy first printing. Few African-American commercial writers can get that. Most are in the 30,000-to-50,000 first-copy range, a good range to build a career on, but it looks as if many of these authors are settling in there."
A breakthrough for black writers was the success in 1992 of Terry McMillan's "Waiting to Exhale" (Viking), a novel about the friendship among four black women. Previously, crossover fiction by blacks tended to be literary: Toni Morrison, Ralph Ellison, Richard Wright, James Baldwin. Since "Exhale," publishers are more willing to take a gamble on black popular fiction.
Tanya McKinnon, a young black agent, has sold 13 books, "seven figures worth," in about a year and a half working in an agency owned by Mary Evans, who is white. The recent successes of African-American books, she said, "shows that people of color read and buy books, and the black market is a lucrative one; there's a new kind of person, the multicultural person." She has a parti-colored list of clients, but said, "I'm certainly delighted when I find a talented black writer."
Still, the emergence of black agents has been singularly important for black writers. Adrienne Ingrum, a former book editor and publisher who is the associate publisher of The Black Issues Book Review, said that in "no way would there be the boom in black books without a black literary agenda."
She added: "Even though a lot of blacks are handled by white agents, it was black agents who cultivated new black talent. Often white editors and publishers don't understand the talent in the black community, and if it isn't for black agents communicating that culture to a very white culture, there would be a lot fewer black books."
What used to be unutterable is now acknowledged: Many blacks who were becoming agents, like many of the whites, simply were not very good at it. The handful of prominent ones who have survived the publishing wars -- Marie Brown, Faith Childs, Lawrence Jordan, Ms. McKinnon and Ms. Stinson, for instance -- are respected professionals who have earned the most necessary tool of all: access -- the ability to pick up the phone and get an important editor on the other end.
Ms. Brown, a former Doubleday editor, has a client list that is mostly black. She says that although there are many black writers who feel more significant with white agents, "there are just as many who really feel they are in better hands with black agents because of their subject matter, and our commitment to selling publishers more diverse writing." But black agents are overwhelmed with submissions from blacks who want to write, and there is a need for more African-American agents, she said.
Manie Barron, a black editor at Random House, said that curiously enough, as book publishing has become more politically correct, discernment about the black story has lessened. "In the late 60's and early 70's there were the black exploitation films, exploiting the ghetto with stories of criminals," he said. "Now publishers want to obliterate this. Well, I came from Harlem, and that was the reality I grew up with and most people grew up with in the inner city. The professional people grew up with the bad ones. A black editor or agent knows that unless you can show the dirt, you don't get the message across."
Mr. Jordan, an agent with black and white clients, agreed. "Publishing needs more blacks, editors and sales reps as well as agents to come along and push the envelope to publishing places we cannot now imagine," he said. Recently he sold a book about a black woman's relationship with her late mother. It took him 18 months to find a publisher who thought that this black story was worth telling. White and black editors turned it down. Finally it was bought by Jeremy P. Tarcher/Putnam by a white editor and will be published as "Life Lessons My Mother Taught Me" at the end of the month. The writer is Andrea Young. The mother was Jean Young. The father and husband is Andrew Young.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The agent Denise Stinson sells more than 30 books a year, most of them by blacks. (Allan Barnes for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BLACKS; BOOK TRADE; AGENTS (BUSINESS) LITERATURE (92%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); LITERARY AGENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); BOOKSTORES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, MARTIN DENISE STINSON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



321 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1957 words

HEADLINE: Low Estimates Luring Bidders To Auction Rooms

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
WHEN the Nathaniel Appleton silver-mounted secretary sold a year ago for $8.3 million -- after an estimate by Sotheby's of $500,000 to $800,000 -- newcomers to the auction game may have been shellshocked, but the pros were not. When most of the other major items of Americana went for prices well above their pre-sale estimates, these newcomers sighed, picked up their inked-up catalogs and headed for home.
"I've seen them bewildered, with their mouths open and their hands empty," said Carol Prisant, a decorative arts writer and former antiques appraiser. "Right now, there are a whole lot of inexperienced people who are going away disillusioned with the auction process. The tyro gets no explanation. Only the old hands really know what's going on." 
 What's going on is that the city's largest auction houses are setting their estimates artificially low deliberately, as a matter of strategy to lure bidders and to make themselves look good.
"We call it the Big Tease," said John Hays, the head of American decorative arts at Christie's, which, like Sotheby's, is holding a big Americana auction next week to coincide with the Winter Antiques Show at the Seventh Regiment Armory. "Like anything else in life," he said, "people have to feel that they have a chance."
Auctioneers, who freely admit the practice, and prominent Americana dealers like Leigh Keno say lower-than-realistic estimates can incite bidding from the floor, thereby generating excitement that ratchets up prices, often to record levels.
While in the recession of the early 1990's auctioneers used high estimates to demonstrate worth -- and to get the bids moving -- that approach is now regarded as a flop. "They found out they weren't going to pull in the bidders that way," said Mr. Keno, who once worked at both Christie's and Doyle's. As times got better, auction houses found that "low estimates do entice buyers," he said, adding, "So for the last five or six years, there's been more of a conscious effort to be conservative."
Auction officials are quick to concede that if they put down what they really thought the best items would go for, nobody would show up -- or customers might be reluctant to bid. "Nobody would want to be the first to put their hand up in the air," said Nancy Druckman, the director of American folk art at Sotheby's. "It's scary -- I've been there."
Not only that, but if the auction house printed estimates based on real expectations, it also might not be able to boast about selling a piece at double the estimate (or more). After its last Americana auction, Christie's trumpeted that sales "totaled $6.6 million, well above the pre-sale estimate of $4 million." In a packed room, the release continued, "many pieces sold for two, three and four times their pre-sale estimates."
For one would-be buyer, these triple and quadruple selling prices are unnerving, to say the least. "Something I really wanted a lot went way over the top," said Jane Schulak, a designer from Birmingham, Mich., who often travels to auctions, even as far as Paris. Even there, a chair she wanted with an estimate of $12,000 ended up selling for $50,000. "Once I hit $25,000, I said, 'You're sick,' " she said. "I stopped." She paused. "I was surprised, but that might have been my lack of experience."
Both Sotheby's and Christie's are hoping for record attendance at next week's Americana sales in Manhattan, and dealers say that with all the new Wall Street money, the auction floor will be full of what Richard H. Jenrette, the longtime collector, calls the Nasdaq nouveaux riches. While officials concede that some of these bonus babies may not know the auction ropes, they insist that many more of them are savvy enough to figure them out.
"Personally, I always take the estimates with a grain of salt," said Mr. Jenrette, the former chairman of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and a preservationist, who has restored and decorated six historic houses, largely with furnishings bought at auction. "I wouldn't worry too much about the Nasdaq crowd," he added. "They're used to seeing things soar."
Then which bidders are hurt by the practice?
"Nobody," Mr. Keno said, "except maybe the elderly couple from Rumson, N.J. -- or anywhere -- who spend all week with the auction catalog, find a chest estimated between $5,000 and $10,000, maybe talk to their banker about a loan and arrive at the auction only to see it start at $16,000."
But those buyers, the auctioneers say, are on the way out.
Although auction officials also tend to play down the role of the younger, more inexperienced auctiongoers -- Mr. Hays predicted the new, younger blood at this year's sale will be only between 15 and 20 percent of the crowd -- Margaret B. Caldwell, an Americana dealer and appraiser disagrees with the auctioneers.
"The bonus babies are who's buying," she said. "The Old Guard is shocked and horrified by the prices." By Old Guard, she added, she means customers over 60.
In fact, there is someone who may be hurt by low estimates: the seller. Under New York City consumer laws, the minimum price he or she must accept for the item is the lowest estimate, the auctioneers say. Thus, if a chest of drawers is estimated to sell for between $5,000 and $7,000, the auction house must sell it if someone bids $5,000 or more. If it's a bad day for sellers, Uncle George may end up selling his chest -- which he thought was worth at least $10,000 -- for half that. (Of course, the sellers would also be delighted if the estimate is tripled.)
Then there is another problem, said Ms. Caldwell, who this year helped authenticate the Winter Show's offerings and headed Sotheby's 19th-century furniture department in New York for six years.
"If your piece is damaged while it's at the auction house, the insurance is based on the low estimate, so the auction house won't reimburse you more than that," she said.
Consignors, or sellers, are therefore often reluctant to list their property at a price lower than they had hoped for. Auction officials said they spent numerous lunches and dinners persuading consignors to accept the lower estimates.
"Low estimates equal high prices," said William W. Stahl Jr., the head of Sotheby's decorative arts division. (He clarified that to say that he didn't mean "ridiculously low estimates, which would make a bidder think there was something wrong with the piece.")
If the consignor won't go along with a price he or she believes to be too low, "then we tell them their property might be better off not being sold at auction," Mr. Stahl said.
So those numbers in the catalog are the result of a negotiation: not too low, or the seller will balk, and not too high, or potential bidders will lose interest.
House & Home asked four independent dealers of note to appraise catalog estimates for next week's two major Americana auctions. All agreed that many of the estimates were low, part of what they termed the general policy of the auction houses. Ms. Caldwell was the only dealer who would allow her name to be used when talking about specific items in the sales, with the understanding that she would not offer comments on pieces she planned to bid on -- either for herself or for clients who have hired her.
She pointed in particular to Christie's Item 159, the Hewlett Family federal sideboard, estimated at between $70,000 and $100,000. If the feet are "right," she said, using the trade's term for "original," she said the sideboard might approach $200,000. Both she and Peter M. Brant, a well-known collector and the owner of Antiques Magazine, also pointed to a serving table attributed to Thomas Seymour of Boston (circa 1810). The table is estimated at $20,000 to $40,000. Even with its shortened legs, Mr. Brant predicted a gavel price of more than $100,000, and Ms. Caldwell said she would be conservative, guessing $75,000.
She also pointed to two of the auction week's most exciting offerings, both in the Christie's sale -- items that don't have published estimates: the 1679 Joseph and Bathsheba Pope valuables cabinet (which dealers have now nicknamed "the box") and the Cornelius Stevenson Chippendale carved mahogany card table (nicknamed "the card table").
If you ask the auction house, the box is estimated at between $600,000 and $900,000, and the card table between $1 million and $2 million -- but interested parties have to call to find that out. "We want people to call us," said Mr. Hays, the decorative arts head. Because the pieces are so rare and valuable, the auction house did not feel confident estimating their worth when the catalogs were sent off to the printer's months ago, Mr. Hays said.
None of the dealers wanted to hazard a guess, either, on the box, but Ms. Caldwell said she would not be surprised if the Card Table sold for between $2 and $3 million.
"After all," she said, "where are you going to get another one?"
Other dealers were buzzing about the pair of carved Chippendale card tables at Sotheby's. They were originally owned by James W. Beekman, and were made in New York around 1760. Other card tables owned by the Beekmans are on display at Winterthur and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The pair is estimated at $400,000 to $600,000, but dealers say they are already lining up clients who may be willing to top the estimate.
Mr. Stahl, at Sotheby's, predicted that the tables "will probably bring more." (Leslie Keno, the director of American furniture under Mr. Stahl (and Leigh Keno's twin brother), was more direct: he said he would "not be surprised if the tables brought over a million dollars.")
Mr. Stahl was less cautious about Lot 706, the Queen Anne secretary attributed to Samuel Harding of Philadelphia, with some exceptional carvings of sunflowers and shells on its pediment.
Despite his own published estimate of $200,000 to $300,000, he predicted the auction price "will go through the roof."
 
Survival Guide For Auctiongoers
 IF you go to either Americana auction, the experts -- dealers and experienced collectors alike -- offer the following auctiongoer's rules:
* Never bid without carefully examining the objects for sale. (Americana furniture collectors are known as "termites" because they're always on their hands and knees, eyeing the undersides of the wood.)
* If you don't know what you're looking at, find an expert.
* Ask for a condition report at the auction house, because not every defect is listed in the catalog. (Damage or replacements may also have been spotted after the catalog went to press.)
* Don't hesitate to ask a Christie's or Sotheby's staff person to elaborate on the condition report. (But dealers say auction employees are, inevitably, prejudiced; instead, they say, you could pay an independent expert for an appraisal.)
* Read the fine print in the catalog about warranties. Most people don't realize that only the broad description in capital letters (Christie's) or boldface (Sotheby's) is covered by a warranty. In other words, the auction house may not stand by all that luscious description of Capt. P. B. W. Aristocrat and his family -- or anything else not in the stated typeface.
What if something that is covered by the warranty turns out to be wrong? "We decide that on a case-by-case basis," said John Hays, the head of decorative arts at Christie's.
And what if you don't have time for all this due diligence? Peter M. Brant, the owner of Antiques Magazine and a seasoned collector, has a simple answer. "Don't go," he said. TRACIE ROZHON
 
Christie's Americana sale is Friday, Jan. 21 at 10 a.m. at its galleries, 20 Rockefeller Plaza. Sotheby's sale is Friday and Saturday at 10:15 a.m. at its headquarters, at 72nd Street and York Avenue.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'BIG TEASE' -- Sotheby's predicts the Beekman tables will sell higher than estimated. Estimates are often set low to draw buyers. (Sotheby's)(pg. F1); CIDER JUG -- This circa 1790 piece brought $90,500; Christie's estimated it at $25,000 to $35,000.; ARMCHAIR -- Possibly from Duncan Phyfe's workshop, a pair sold for $200,500; the top estimate was $50,000.
(Christie's); APPLETON SECRETARY -- Estimated to sell for $500,000 to $800,000, it sold last year at Sotheby's for $8.3 million.; PIER TABLE -- Made in Boston just before the Revolution, it brought $882,500 against a top estimate of $250,000. (Sotheby's)(pg. F12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S; SOTHEBY'S SOTHEBY'S (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIE'S; SOTHEBY'S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES; AUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AUCTIONS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (76%); VISUAL ARTS (75%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE LEIGH KENO (68%); JOHN HAYS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



322 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
GERMANY: ATTACKED OVER HITLER
Former Economics Minister Jurgen Mollemann, chairman of the Free Democratic Party in North Rhine-Westphalia, was sharply criticized for using an image of Hitler in his campaign posters for the state election on May 14. Hitler's face is above a warning saying: "If we do not move quickly to put more teachers in the schools, our children will look for their own teachers." Victor Homola (NYT)
 
GERMANY: COMMUNIST'S PLEA REJECTED
Egon Krenz, the last leader of Communist East Germany, was ordered to begin a six-year sentence today after a federal court rejected his appeal. Mr. Krenz was found guilty of complicity in the shooting of people trying to escape across the Berlin Wall. The unrepentant former leader has a further appeal before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Roger Cohen (NYT) 

BRITAIN: WOODWARD PARENTS CHARGED
The estranged parents of Louise Woodward, the British au pair convicted of manslaughter in Boston in 1997, were ordered to stand trial on charges of defrauding their daughter's defense fund. Gary Woodward, 44, and Susan Woodward, 43, are accused of billing the British fund $15,400 for Boston accommodations they received free of charge. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: POLITICAL WARNING
A parliamentary committee warned that the growth in the number of politically motivated special advisers since Labor came to power in 1997 was threatening the independence and authority of impartial civil servants who have traditionally served British ministers. The committee proposed a statuatory limit on their number, which have risen from 38 to 74. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
FRANCE: TRUCKERS LIFT BLOCKADE
Truck owners lifted their blockades of border crossings and strategic transit routes after government concessions on diesel price rises and plans to limit the workweek. But the accord may only have brought temporary peace as truck drivers are considering whether the plan satisfies them. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: PUTIN'S KEY BACKING
Acting President Vladimir V. Putin was formally nominated for president by dozens of figures from the business, political and social elite, the first step toward the March 26 election. Mr. Putin must now gather 500,000 supporters' signatures by Feb. 13, a task aides said will take but 10 days. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
VATICAN: MIDEAST DATES
The Vatican announced that Pope John Paul II's trip to the Holy Land would take place March 20 to 26, and that it would include visits to Israel's Holocaust memorial and a Palestinian refugee camp. It will also include meetings with President Ezer Weizman of Israel and King Abdullah of Jordan, where the trip will begin. Elisabetta Povoledo (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: BARAK OPTIMISTIC
Prime Minister Ehud Barak, defending United States-brokered peace moves with Syria despite domestic opposition to a Golan Heights pullout, said a "core agreement" could be reached within two months, "perhaps two weeks more or less." Mr. Barak returned home from an inconclusive second round of talks outside Washington with Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Shara. (Reuters)
 
JORDAN, ISRAEL: TRADE PACT
Jordan and Israel renewed a trade agreement and pledged to increase business activity between the two countries. Trade Minister Ran Cohen of Israel and his Jordanian counterpart, Mohammad Asfour, said they also agreed to discuss setting up an industrial zone in Aqaba, a southern Jordanian Red Sea port, and Eilat, an adjoining Israeli area. (AP)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
COLOMBIA: REBELS KILL 24
In the first outbreak of fighting since the expiration of a holiday truce declared by the largest left-wing guerrilla group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, several police stations were attacked in the southern province of Narino. At least 24 soldiers, policemen and civilians are reported to have been killed, and government spokesmen said about 20 rebels were also killed. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
ECUADOR: STRIKE WEAKENED
The transport workers' union in Quito has pulled out of the coalition sponsoring a general strike scheduled to begin on Saturday, a move that dims prospects for success of the civil disobedience campaign the opposition alliance has been calling for in hopes of forcing President Jamil Mahuad to resign. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
MEXICO: AMERICAN'S OUSTER STAYED
A federal judge has suspended an expulsion order against an American accused of getting involved in the turbulent politics of the troubled southern state of Chiapas. A lawyer for Kerry Appel, left, of Denver, said the judge in Chiapas temporarily overruled an order by immigration officials that his client leave the country within 24 hours. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
THAILAND: HEROIN SEIZED
Tipped off by American counter-drug agents, the police made their largest heroin seizure in several years, intercepting 277 pounds of the narcotic at Bangkok's international airport. The heroin, destined for the United States, had been taken south from the Golden Triangle, a rugged opium-growing area where Thailand's borders with Myanmar and Laos converge. Christopher S. Wren (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
IVORY COAST: OPPOSITION JOINS IN
A major opposition party, the Ivoirian Popular Front, has joined a transitional government formed by the country's new military rulers. The party initially pulled out of the government, criticizing its leadership as too close to a party headed by Alassane D. Ouattara, a former prime minister. Norimitsu Onishi (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (95%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CHILDREN (76%); SENTENCING (75%); VERDICTS (74%); MANSLAUGHTER (74%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HOLOCAUST (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); APPEALS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); REFUGEES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); TRUCK DRIVERS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); RELIGION (64%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (50%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); EHUD BARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



323 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES

 BODY:
COPPER RISES. Copper prices climbed on expectations that economic strength around the world would increase demand for wire and pipes. In New York, copper for March delivery rose 2.25 cents, to 86.6 cents a pound.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since July 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COPPER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



324 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO SLIPS. The euro edged lower as an unexpected decline in German factory output dampened optimism about faster growth in the euro zone. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0311, down from $1.0322 on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRODUCTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



325 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Feminist Coalition Protests U.S. Stance on Sex Trafficking Treaty

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12

 BODY:
An unusual coalition of women's groups, family-planning advocates and conservative Republicans is protesting what it describes as the Clinton administration's effort to weaken international laws against the trafficking of women and children for prostitution.
In a letter last week, the presidents of the National Organization for Women and the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, along with Gloria Steinem and other feminists, accused the administration of taking a position that was "extremely detrimental to women" in negotiations over a new United Nations treaty on sex trafficking. 
 They were referring to the administration's support for wording in the treaty that would define "forced prostitution" -- but not other types of prostitution -- as a form of "sexual exploitation."
The letter to the State Department said that the wording would make it more difficult to prosecute prostitution rings because the definition "would not cover some of the most common methods of sex trafficking, which prey on and profit from the economic desperation of women, girls and their families by securing their 'consent.' "
Leaders of the Heritage Foundation and other politically conservative groups sent a similar letter of protest last week to the first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mrs. Clinton has focused on the issue in her foreign travels and has repeatedly called for a crackdown on all types of trafficking of women and children across international borders.
State Department officials insist that American negotiators in Vienna, where the United Nations treaty is being drafted, are seeking a document that is as tough as possible in demanding punishment for criminals who transport women or children across borders for prostitution.
But they said the United States risked alienating other governments, and undermining international support for the treaty, if it pressed too hard for a definition of sexual exploitation that included all forms of prostitution.
They said a number of European governments that have legalized prostitution might refuse to sign the treaty unless it made a distinction between forced prostitution and situations in which women choose freely to become prostitutes.
"The suggestion that we are trying to weaken laws on international trafficking of prostitutes is nonsense," said James P. Rubin, the State Department's chief spokesman.
Human rights groups estimate that each year hundreds of thousands, and perhaps millions, of women and children are forced into lives of sexual exploitation. Many are transported across international borders by criminal organizations.
The debate over the wording of the United Nations treaty pits the administration against some of its natural constituencies in the women's movement and among family-planning organizations.
The administration's position does have support from some human rights organizations and women's leaders.
Regan Ralph, executive director of the women's rights division of Human Rights Watch in Washington, said that the treaty was too important to be undermined by a squabble over the exact wording of one section.
"My understanding is that the treaty is moving forward, and that it offers significantly improved protections of the victims of trafficking," she said. "We shouldn't allow this debate to derail those efforts." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (58%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (58%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (58%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (58%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH SEX TRAFFICKING (92%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (92%); PROSTITUTION (92%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); WOMEN (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



326 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Technology Shares Slide As Investors Turn Cautious

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Technology stocks slumped again yesterday, dragging the Nasdaq market down 71.17 points, or 1.82 percent, in a nervous session as investors braced for government reports on retail sales and inflation.
Rising interest rates also kept investors cautious as did further appraisal of the blockbuster merger proposed Monday by America Online, which was down 4 1/2, to 60, and Time Warner, down 5 3/8, to 79 5/8. 
 "There's been excess there," said Cummins Catherwood, managing director of Rutherford, Brown & Catherwood in Philadelphia, referring to the 1999 run-up in Internet and other high-technology shares. "Now there's a reshuffling of the deck."
It was the eighth consecutive day in which the Nasdaq composite, which ended at 3,850.02, ranged more than 100 points from high to low.
With some technology money moving into blue chips, the Dow Jones industrials explored record territory for much of the day but gave up more than half its best gain to finish ahead by 40.02 points, or 0.35 percent. The closing level, 11,551.10, was shy of the record 11,572.20 set on Monday.
"The fixation we've seen on high-tech and Internet has broken somewhat," said Neil T. Eigen, a managing director at J.& W. Seligman. "Some sanity is returning."
Bank stocks were among the day's best performers, with J. P. Morgan and Citigroup among the biggest contributors to the Dow's advance. Analysts said investors might have decided that bank stocks had been battered enough in anticipation of more credit-tightening by the Federal Reserve, which has a policy meeting scheduled for the first two days of February.
Technology stocks also weighed heavily on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which sagged 6.31 points, or 0.44 percent, to 1,432.25. The biggest depressants other than America Online were Microsoft, down 3 9/16, to 105 13/16; Yahoo down 39 13/16, to 357 9/16, and Oracle, down 6 3/4, to 105 5/8.
Declining issues in the index narrowly outnumbered advancing ones, 246 to 234, with 20 stocks unchanged.
General Motors surged 3 7/16, to 76 3/8, after a report emerged that Boeing planned to buy the satellite-manufacturing business of Hughes Electronics, 69 percent owned by G.M. Hughes climbed 4 1/4, to 106 13/16.
Lockheed Martin rose 1 1/4, to 21 3/16, after winning a Navy missile contract, while Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing benefited from a recommendation by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and traded as high as 103 5/8 before settling at 100 3/4, up 1/4.
Intel rose 1 9/16, to 91 1/4, as investors awaited its earnings report today. Hewlett-Packard gained 3 13/16, to 112 3/8.
"The message so far this year is the first shall be last and the last shall be first," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. He noted that utilities also posted broad, though modest, gains yesterday and that beaten up consumer stocks like McDonald's, up 1 3/4, to 42 3/4; Coca-Cola, up 11/16, to 61 1/2, and Merck, up 1 7/16, to 74 7/16, have all bounced higher of late.
Trading volume eased a bit on the New York Stock Exchange, to a still heavy 974.6 million shares as 1,710 issues declined and 1,355 advanced. There were 85 stocks that hit 52-week lows and 53 that hit new highs. Nasdaq volume was 1.52 billion, down from 1.65 billion on Tuesday.
Foreign markets were mixed yesterday. The Nikkei 225 in Tokyo fell 0.92 percent, the Hang Seng in Hong Kong, 0.93 percent, and the Paris CAC, 0.56 percent. Prices rose by 0.31 percent in Frankfurt, 0.21 percent in London, 0.27 in Sao Paulo and 0.43 percent in Mexico City.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (58%); AMP (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); GM (NYSE) (52%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); LMT (NYSE) (51%); MS (NYSE) (50%); MMM (SWX) (50%); MMM (NYSE) (50%); MMM (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX CITIGROUP INC (90%); INTEL CORP (58%); AOL INC (58%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); BOEING CO (51%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 3M CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (84%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); RETAIL SALES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (63%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



327 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Office Tower Planned at Historic Corner: 5th and 42nd

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
A development group plans to build a 30-story office tower at one of the city's busiest and most sought after intersections, the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street.
The planned $100 million project by the developer Mitchell B. Rutter is the latest step in the rehabilitation of the crosstown thoroughfare. Nearer to Times Square, restaurants, theaters and entertainment centers have replaced the peep shows and T-shirt shops along 42nd Street. Farther east, Jerry I. Speyer is completing the long overdue renovation of the landmark Chrysler Building, and the state recently completed the restoration of Grand Central Terminal. 
 According to real estate executives, Mr. Rutter has a contract to buy the parcel for about $30 million from the estate of Morris L. Green. The developer would then demolish the International Pavilion, a glass-enclosed flea market, an 18-story building at 505 Fifth Avenue and a 12-story office building at 507 Fifth Avenue. He said tenants were already in the process of vacating the buildings.
"I've had a love affair with this site for at least 15 years," said Mr. Rutter, president of Essex Capital Partners. "The prominence and history of the site creates many intriguing possibilities."
Although the buildings on the corner lot have a somewhat ramshackle look today, the parcel has a place in New York history: it was once the home of Levi Morton, a vice president of the United States and governor of New York in the 1890's, and the place where Edith Wharton made her society debut in 1879.
"We're thrilled about it," Tom Cusick, the president of the Fifth Avenue Association, said of Mr. Rutter's project. "It's going to be a terrific improvement at a very key intersection. I think it's going to have a significant impact on the surrounding neighborhood."
Mr. Rutter said he planned to build a 250,000-square-foot tower for blue-chip media or financial tenants. There would be retail stores at the base of the building and concierge service and boardrooms for the office tenants, he said.
During the real estate boom in the mid-1980's, Mr. Rutter was a real estate adviser to Touko America Company, the subsidiary of a Japanese development company, which paid a small fortune for the properties. Touko razed the dilapidated, 130-year-old Morton mansion with plans to build a 400,000-square-foot glass tower. But the real estate market collapsed in the early 1990's and Touko eventually lost the properties and its $41 million investment.
Mr. Rutter's new project sits midway between two other proposed developments. Later this month, Brookfield Properties is expected to pay about $150 million for a site at the southwest corner of 42nd Street and Madison Avenue, where it plans to build a 1.2-million-square-foot tower, possibly for the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
At 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas, the developer Douglas Durst is planning to build a two-million-square-foot tower. He is negotiating with the Brandt family to buy the parcel, one of the few on the block he does not already own.
But unlike either Brookfield or Mr. Durst, Mr. Rutter plans to go ahead with his project whether or not he has tenants. He said the economy was so strong and the real estate market so tight that he should have no problem finding tenants for a speculative tower on the corner.
After the recession in the early 1990's left the city with acres of vacant office space, lenders have been loath to provide financing for office buildings that did not already have an anchor tenant. Indeed, only Mr. Speyer, who plans to build a 25-story tower on East 41st Street near Third Avenue, and now Mr. Rutter are building speculative office buildings.
"Mitch has a good project," said Bruce Mosler, executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate broker. "Between the location and the scarcity of high-end space, it should command very high rents."

 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BPO (TSX) (50%); BPO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROOKFIELD OFFICE PROPERTIES INC (50%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; RUTTER, MITCHELL B ESTELLE MORRIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



328 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Import Prices Last Month Is Attributed to Surging Oil Costs

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12

 BODY:
The cost of imported goods rose in December for a sixth consecutive month, led by surging oil costs, government figures showed today.
The index of import prices rose 0.7 percent last month after rising 0.6 percent in November, the Labor Department said. Excluding petroleum, import prices were unchanged in December after rising 0.4 percent the previous month. 
 For all of 1999, import prices rose 7 percent, after falling two consecutive years, reflecting a more than doubling of oil prices. Excluding petroleum, import prices were unchanged in 1999 after three years of declines.
Prices outside of energy are "no longer falling, and that's not a plus" for the inflation outlook, said Paul Kasriel, an economist at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "Consumers may have to pay a little more."
Plunging currency values across Asia sent some countries' economies into recession in 1997 and 1998, sapping demand and leading to a free fall in the prices of oil and other commodities. The United States economy weathered the fallout, and consumers benefited from the lowest oil prices in more than a decade.
Prices for other products, ranging from clothing to toys and electronics, also fell as the dollar gained in value and foreign producers held fire sales. That also kept many of the nation's companies from raising prices.
"Import prices were declining; that's no longer true," Michael Moskow, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said today. "We also expect to see the after-effects of last year's jump in energy costs, as that increase works its way through the rest of the economy and impacts other prices."
Crude oil prices rose last year as world producers cut supply to increase prices from a 12-year low reached in December 1998. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (83%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE IMPORT TRADE (96%); IMPORT PRICES (95%); PRICE INCREASES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CURRENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



329 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
With Data On Economy Due Today, Treasuries Fall

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Long-term interest rates continued to move higher yesterday as investors awaited the release today of government reports on December retail sales and on producer prices. Retail sales are expected to be strong, rising about 1 percent, while prices at the producer level are forecast to increase 0.3 percent.
Such results would confirm the current conviction among many bond investors that the Federal Reserve will raise its short-term interest rate target by half a percentage point over the next three months. Fed policy makers will next meet on Feb. 1 and 2, and analysts expect at least a quarter-point increase, to 5.75 percent, in the federal funds rate, the overnight loan rate between banks. 
 The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.71 percent yesterday from 6.67 on Tuesday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 14/32, to 92 17/32. Long-term yields are now at the highest level in two and a half years. Shorter-term interest rates also rose yesterday, with the yield on the two-year Treasury note edging up to 6.45 percent from 6.43 percent on Thursday.
The Treasury auctioned $6 billion of new 10-year inflation-linked notes yesterday, and they received a surprisingly warm reception. The real yield of 4.338 percent, which is adjusted for inflation, was well below the 4.40 percent level at which the last issue of such bonds, sold a year ago, was trading. Inflation-indexed bonds pay a coupon amount based on the stated real rate, but their principal also increases by the amount of inflation. In recent months, real rates have risen above 4 percent for the first time since such bonds were first issued in 1997.
One sign of increased public participation was noncompetitive tenders -- an option used by individual investors to be assured of buying bonds at auctions. These totaled nearly $81.8 million yesterday, the highest figure for any similar auction since the first one, when such purchasers took $157 million in bonds.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 10-year inflation-indexed notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price: 99.298
High Yield: 4.338%
Low Yield: 4.200%
Median Yield: 4.300%
Accepted at low price: 30%
Total applied for: $18,740,421
Accepted: $6,316,921
Noncompetitive: $81,777
Interest set at: 4 1/4
 
The 10-year inflation notes mature Jan. 15, 2010.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



330 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Mandela's Next Job: Trying to Cool One of Africa's Hottest Spots

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 12

 BODY:
Nelson Mandela, the former South African president, will step into a new role here next week when the Security Council plans a debate on the rapidly worsening political and economic situation in Burundi and the threat of renewed ethnic warfare in an already devastated part of Africa.
Along with Mr. Mandela, more than half a dozen African leaders have been invited for meetings on Burundi and later on Congo by Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States representative and president of the Security Council this month. It will be the largest gathering of African presidents to meet with the council, diplomats said. The list of those planning to attend includes Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, Frederick Chiluba of Zambia, Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, Pasteur Bizimungu of Rwanda, Joaquim Chissano of Mozambique and Sir Ketumile Masire, a former president of Botswana who has been named a mediator in the Congo civil war. 
 Mr. Holbrooke expressed optimism today that President Laurent Kabila of Congo would also attend.
Burundi's government, concerned that it will be attacked in the council, will send a team of high-level ministers, although their names were in doubt after a cabinet shakeup on Tuesday.
Mr. Mandela will address the council as the new international mediator for Burundi, which is mired in civil war and economic collapse and under pressure by relief and rights organizations, backed by some diplomats, who want immediate changes in government policies before any assistance is extended.
At the center of the debate is Burundi's "regroupment" policy. Under the policy, the Tutsi-led government of President Pierre Buyoya has forcibly resettled 300,000 mostly ethnic Hutus in dozens of spartan camps. The purpose is to contain what the government says is a rebel movement backed by the genocidal Interahamwe militia, who were responsible for much of the killing of Tutsi and moderate Hutu in neighboring Rwanda in 1994.
The Interahamwe and some exiled soldiers from the former Hutu Rwandan army, chased out of Rwanda by a Tutsi force after the genocide, have been returning to Rwanda and crossing into Burundi, said Marc Nteturuye, Burundi's representative at the United Nations. He said Burundi's crisis could be dealt with only as part of a larger regional problem.
"The Interahamwe is colluding with Burundi rebels and fighting on Burundi soil," Mr. Nteturuye said. "Peace in Burundi depends also on peace in the Congo. Burundi is mixed into that conflict."
He said that the aim of the policy was to protect civilians but that emptying villages also deprived rebels of support bases and hiding places.
United Nations relief officials say they have been torn between a conviction that the policy violates international law that governs the population movements and their own commitment to meeting the civilians' needs in the camps, where hunger and disease are common. Complicating relief decisions was the murder last year of two aid officials at one camp, compounded by the government's failure to solve the case.
Mr. Nteturuye said in an interview the government had identified the killers, who fled across the border into Tanzania and disappeared.
"In the camps, people don't have everything they need, but they are happy to be protected," he said. He added that if rebels were allowed to continue to roam in and around the capital, there was certain to be a backlash from other, presumably Tutsi, armed gangs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (96%); RWANDA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); UGANDA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BURUNDI; AFRICA (96%); RWANDA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); UGANDA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TUTSI TRIBE; HUTU TRIBE; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); GENOCIDE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ARMIES (75%); REFUGEES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TRENDS (70%); ARMED FORCES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MURDER (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; MANDELA, NELSON; BUYOYA, PIERRE (PRES) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



331 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Luxury Wheel Turns to Europe;
On U.S. Premium Car Sales, the Continent Sets the Pace

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 12

 BODY:
After capturing a big share of the American market for small and midsize cars in the 1980's, Japanese automakers set their sights a decade ago on Cadillac and Lincoln, which had dominated the American luxury market since the 1930's. Detroit watched and worried.
Cadillac and Lincoln, respectively the luxury divisions of General Motors and Ford, held their lead through most of the 1990's -- until last year, when they were passed by not one but two other carmakers, with a third close on their bumper. 
 Yet only one of the upstarts -- Lexus, the luxury division of the Toyota Motor Corporation -- was Japanese, and it took second place. Roaring by the entire field was Mercedes-Benz, which took first place, while BMW, whose sales were once tiny, pulled nearly even with Cadillac and Lincoln.
Outsold three to one by American luxury-car brands as recently as 1991, European-brand luxury cars as a group managed for the first time last year to accomplish what once seemed impossible: beating American luxury brands in sales in their home market. Honda's Acura and Nissan Motor's Infiniti have been also-rans and even Lexus has been losing ground to the Europeans, especially the Germans.
Even the most optimistic European executives had not anticipated seizing the lead from Cadillac and Lincoln. "We were surprised," said Juergen Hubbert, the DaimlerChrysler A.G. management board member who runs Mercedes. "It was not our target to become No. 1."
Having spent much of the last decade casting nervous glances across the Pacific, American executives at the North American International Auto Show here this week are looking warily at the appeal of cars coming across the Atlantic instead. "It's not cheap, but it's very fine product and we need to learn from it," said Harry Pearce, the vice chairman of G.M., which said on Monday that it would buy the half of Saab of Sweden that it did not already own.
There is rare unanimity here about how the Europeans surged into first place. They have the strongest brands, at a time when a rising stock market and vibrant economy have meant that money is little object for many buyers. Even so, the Europeans have aimed many new models to appeal to the so-called entry-level luxury market that features base model prices of $24,000 to $32,000. And Americans simply think the latest European models look and drive better than anyone else's.
"They're looking for, quite frankly, more European proportions," said Richard Parry-Jones, Ford's group vice president for vehicle development.
The Europeans focused on driving performance and fresh, crisply lined models at a time when their American and Japanese rivals were still producing cautious variations of designs that had done well in the 1980's. Models like the BMW 3- and 5-series, the Audi TT, the Jaguar S-Type and the Mercedes E-Class have grabbed the public's attention in a way that models like the Cadillac Catera, Chrysler LHS and Lexus ES300 have not.
At the same time, European manufacturers have been able to keep their brand images unusually clear. BMW has been able to associate its name with driving performance, something that younger drivers especially value. Volvo Cars, the Swedish manufacturer Ford bought last year, has coupled its name with safety. Jaguar of Britain, another Ford subsidiary, is known for elegance, and Mercedes for square-shouldered reliability.
The demand for European cars is coming from the customers that automakers covet most: successful young professionals like Joseph Coviello, a 35-year-old financial adviser in Newark, Del., and his wife, Karen. Mr. Coviello has just bought a BMW M3 convertible; he owned an M3 sedan before it. Karen Coviello drove a Jeep Grand Cherokee until two years ago, when the Jeep rolled over and its roof caved in. She now drives a BMW, too, a 5-series wagon.
"I like, in no particular order, the style, performance, safety and reputation," Mr. Coviello said. "The BMW literally handles like a sports car, and if you've not driven one, you can't understand it."
The European ascendance in luxury cars has come at an especially disappointing time for American and Japanese luxury car executives. A decade ago, experts had thought millions of increasingly prosperous baby boomers would want a little more pampering, and would migrate to entry-level luxury cars that were just a little more expensive than their Honda Accords, Toyota Camrys and Ford Tauruses. Instead, affluent middle-aged buyers snapped up sport utility vehicles during the 1990's.
Cars' share of the luxury market plummeted from 95 percent in 1990 to just 44 percent in 1996, as automakers introduced new models like the Jeep Grand Cherokee and GMC Yukon; their share has now leveled off at about 40 percent.
Holding a shrinking share of a stagnant market segment has been a new and unpleasant experience for Japanese automakers in particular. "I don't think the growth has been there that we anticipated in that segment of the market," said Richard Colliver, Honda's executive vice president for North American Honda and Acura sales.
The luxury car market is now starting to expand more quickly, however. Americans seem to be falling in love again with the fine handling and easy access that exquisitely engineered cars can provide.
At the same time, manufacturers' plans for sport utility vehicles are being crimped by rising gasoline prices and growing regulatory pressures to reduce the big vehicles' emissions, improve their fuel economy and make them less deadly to other motorists during crashes. DaimlerChrysler executives cited all these issues, particularly the uncertainty about future regulations, in saying this week that they had canceled their well-advanced preparations to introduce a giant Jeep that would have cost more than $50,000 and would have competed against the Ford Excursion and Chevrolet Suburban.
To reclaim the luxury car market, American designers are setting aside their pride and emulating German automotive fashions. Japanese designers, who have long copied German approaches to the luxury market, have begun producing cars that are even closer to the originals.
Virtually all the luxury car market's growth in recent years has been in the entry-level segment, so manufacturers have focused their efforts there. Ford has had an instant hit since last autumn when it introduced the $31,475 Lincoln LS, which looks and drives a lot like a BMW 5-series but is $10,000 cheaper.
Japanese luxury sedans being introduced at auto shows this year reflect very similar influences. The sporty new Lexus IS300 has a compact but powerful 3-liter, V6 engine that produces 215 horsepower, putting it in the same league as German engines, while the new Acura 3.2CL Type S sedan manages 260-horsepower from a slightly larger engine. Japanese auto executives expect both to be priced about the same as the Lincoln LS.
Indeed, Toyota is so confident that the entry-level luxury car market will expand that it plans to keep selling its Lexus ES300 after the almost identically priced IS300 goes on the market in July. Selling similar cars for similar prices in the same showrooms is usually considered a marketing mistake.
But Bryan Bergsteinsson, the group vice president and general manager of Toyota's Lexus division in North America, said that the rear-wheel-drive IS300 was slightly smaller and intended for customers in their 30's who might not want the front-wheel-drive ES300, for which the average age is 51. "If you see them on the showroom floor, you'll see the difference," he said.
Sales of entry-level luxury cars are also growing because traditional luxury car manufacturers have been most aggressive lately in expanding the bottom of their price ranges. Mercedes has been very successful with its C-class sedans, which cost $30,000 to $35,000, and plans to introduce a completely redesigned but similarly priced model this autumn. Jaguar has already increased sales sharply with the $43,000 S-Type.
Automakers are also looking for ways to build luxury cars that look a bit like sport utility vehicles on the outside -- a high roof, high front end and all-wheel drive -- but retain the driving performance and interior comforts of a car.
The best-known example of such a so-called sport wagon or car-based sport utility is the Lexus RX300, essentially a luxury wagon version of a Toyota Camry but with a taller suspension and all-wheel drive. The BMW X5, which went on sale last month as a "sport activity vehicle," is another example.
And on Tuesday morning, Acura introduced a prototype here of its answer to the RX-300; the final model, which will go on sale this autumn, has not yet been named. Other automakers, including even Porsche, are also working on luxury sport wagons.
Automakers are experimenting with sport wagons partly because of a belief that people now in their 20's may not want luxury sedans as they grow older. "What a lot of them are looking for is distinctiveness -- they look at the current car, the box, as boring," said Tom Orbe, the general manager of Infiniti, which plans to introduce a competitor to the RX300 in the autumn of 2001.
But judging by some prototypes displayed here and, even more so, at the recent Tokyo Motor Show, engineers working on the new sport wagons must walk a fine line to avoid humdrum designs. "A lot of them just look like station wagons that they raised up a little," said Donald V. Esmond, Toyota's group vice president and general manager for the Toyota brand in America.
American automakers, including Cadillac and Lincoln, are also working on similar vehicles. G.M. and Ford have been buying European brands like Saab and Volvo with proven track records. And Ford acquired Jaguar and Aston Martin in the 1980's.
Mercedes and BMW executives say that they have little to fear from their American rivals. "I think that the American manufacturers have concentrated in the last years on the sport utility vehicle side of the market and they've probably paid too little attention to the passenger car side," said Henrich Heitmann, BMW's management board member for worldwide sales and marketing.
American managers respond that given the high profits in the sport utility vehicle market, such a strategy makes sense. Larry Burns, G.M.'s vice president for research, development and planning, said that with some Chevrolet sport utilities selling for as much as $35,000, traditional definitions of luxury brands are breaking down.
But such views mask an underlying concern that the Europeans are moving ahead. Ford even went so far last year as to hire BMW's star executive, Wolfgang Reitzle, to take charge of all its luxury divisions: Lincoln, Volvo, Jaguar and Aston Martin. Mr. Reitzle said that his goal was to fill the garages of affluent families with a variety of vehicles, everything from Lincoln Navigator sport utility vehicles to Jaguar sports cars and Volvo wagons.
To be successful, Ford will need to sustain a consistent approach to advertising, management and brand strategy -- a combination which, he said, has eluded American car makers in the luxury market.
"It took BMW 20 years to come from a fairly good position to a very good position," Mr. Reitzle said. "It's a question of 10 years or so to execute what we really think American luxury should be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ford's Lincoln LS; The Lexus IS300 sedan; The BMW 323Ci; The Escalade from Cadillac.; Mercedes-Benz, which introduced its Vision SLA model this week, led all luxury car sales in the United States last year. (Allan Barnes for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Dueling for Driveways"
Even though affluent buyers have increasingly chosen sport utilities, an American specialty, instead of cars, American luxury brands have lost ground and Europeans now lead.
 
Graph compares car sales with sport utility sales in the United States since 1991.
 
Graph compares American and European brand luxury car sales in the United States since 1991.
(Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank)
 
Chart: "America's Favorites"
Chart lists the top selling luxury cars in the United States, their price, and the percent change from 1990.
(Source: Ward's AutoInfoBank)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); DAI (FRA) (66%); DAI (BIT) (66%); 7201 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); DAIMLER AG (66%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (75%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); LUXURY GOODS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH COVIELLO (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



332 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Railroad Agency Wants Towns To Allow Whistles at Crossings

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12

 BODY:
Train whistles, nostalgic to some and a noisy nuisance to others, are being silenced at the expense of lives, federal regulators said today, and they want nearly 250 communities that have banned the whistles to let the warnings sound again if other steps are not taken to improve safety at those railroad crossings.
In 1998, 431 people died and more than 1,300 were injured in highway-rail crossing accidents, the Federal Railroad Administration said today in proposing a rule requiring train horns to be sounded at all public crossings. 
 When train horns are silenced at crossings with lights and gates, the collision rate jumps 62 percent, said Jolene Molitoris, administrator of the agency.
"It is really about life and death and how we can prevent truly preventable injuries and deaths," Ms. Molitoris said. "That's our goal."
Sounding train horns, two long blasts followed by one short one and one long, is standard practice at most of the 158,000 public railroad crossings in the United States. But 247 communities, with about 2,200 crossings, have prohibited trains from sounding their horns.
Under the proposal, horns could be silenced only if other steps to improve safety were taken in such "quiet zones." All crossings would have to have gates and lights. Additional steps that localities could take to get quiet zones approved under the proposal include installing cameras to catch motorists who try to cross tracks when gates are down or lights are flashing or adding extra gates or lane dividers to keep motorists from zigzagging around gates.
Localities can apply for federal and state grants and loans to help pay for improvements needed to qualify as quiet zones, Ms. Molitoris said. The rule also proposes an upper volume limit for train horns.
Public hearings on the proposal are planned for spring in Ohio, Massachusetts, Florida, Oregon, California, the District of Columbia, Indiana and Illinois, where critics already are voicing opposition. Public comments will be accepted until May 26, and the railroad agency will act on the proposal next year.
Mayor Arlene Mulder of Arlington Heights, Ill., said noisy train whistles would affect the quality of life and property values. Developers are spending millions of dollars to build housing near commuter rail lines in the town, a suburb of Chicago.
"I understand safety, but whistle blowing in and of itself will not guarantee safety," Ms. Mulder said. "The real threat is to quality of life. We've been working so hard to rebuild and revitalize downtown, and now they say they're going to blow whistles?"
Leroy Jones, national legislative representative for the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, said urban sprawl, increased train traffic and Americans' hurry-up approach to life have heightened the problem.
Mr. Jones, a former engineer, said blowing train horns would reduce deaths and injuries from crossing collisions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (83%); FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (83%); FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; NOISE RAIL CROSSINGS (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (79%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); NUISANCE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MAYORS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CITY LIFE (65%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MOLITORIS, JOLENE (ADMR) JOLENE MOLITORIS (80%); LEROY JONES (64%); ARLENE MULDER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



333 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani to Propose Tax Cuts In Effort to Help Businesses

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
In his State of the City speech today, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani will propose about $2 billion in tax cuts intended to help businesses and spur economic growth, senior aides said last night.
The proposal, provided a day early by aides who spoke on the condition of anonymity, is also clearly aimed at reinforcing Mr. Giuliani's image as a fiscally conservative Republican as he gears up to run for United States Senate against Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 In previewing some highlights of Mr. Giuliani's speech for reporters, his aides said the cuts would be made over the next four years to the city's commercial rent tax, the hotel occupancy tax and the unincorporated business tax, all of which have been cut in recent years. The aides said the plan would include a personal income tax credit for shareholders of small partnerships known as Subchapter S corporations.
Together, the taxes singled out for cuts by the mayor now account for more than $1.2 billion in annual revenue. And the income tax credit for S corporation shareholders, which was proposed last year but not enacted, is expected to cost about $50 million a year.
But the city's budget is projected to show gaps of $1.5 billion next year, $1.9 billion in 2002 and $1.7 billion in 2003, meaning increased revenues or reduced spending will be needed to balance the budget. City officials are also still coping with the state's unexpected elimination last year of the commuter tax, which will cost more than $300 million a year.
Last month, the mayor's budget director, Robert M. Harding, warned the heads of all city agencies that agency spending citywide would have to be cut an additional $600 million.
The mayor's tax cut proposals would have to be negotiated with the City Council, which has final authority over the city budget, and some of the cuts would need the Legislature's approval. The Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, in his own State of the City speech this week, proposed $400 million in increased spending and said the commuter tax action had made further cuts unwise.
Last year, the Council had proposed even deeper tax cuts than Mr. Giuliani had. Of the mayor's proposal yesterday, Mr. Vallone's chief of staff, Bruce R. Bender, said through a spokesman, "It's nice to see the mayor finally following the Democratic leadership in City Hall."
But at least some budget experts said the mayor's cuts could prove to be effective. "If this plan targets the right taxes, the commercial rent tax or the personal income tax, and it doesn't increase out-year budget gaps, then it could be smart," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a private panel. "But you really have to look at it in the overall context of the financial plan." The mayor's full spending plan will not be released until the end of the month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE CITY MESSAGE (NYC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HERSZENHORN, DAVID M RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



334 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Boeing Seen in Acquisition Of Hughes Satellite Unit
In a big expansion into the space business, Boeing is expected to announce soon that it is buying the satellite manufacturing business of Hughes Electronics for about $3.75 billion in cash, executives close to the matter said. 
 The deal would make Boeing the world's largest producer of commercial communications satellites while transforming Hughes almost entirely into an entertainment and communications company, led by its DirecTV satellite television operation. Page C2.

Fidelity Fund Manager Plans to Quit
George Vanderheiden, who managed several top-performing Fidelity funds during the 1980's but had recently seen his track record suffer as his more conservative, value-investing style fell out of favor, announced that he was quitting effective Feb. 1. Mr. Vanderheiden, 54, is manager of the $29 billion Fidelity Advisor Growth Opportunities Fund and the $7 billion Fidelity Destiny I fund, making him one of the most prominent managers at Fidelity Investments in Boston. C10.
 
Breakup of Microsoft Is Suggested
International Data, a leading technology consulting and research company, says that Microsoft should pre-emptively break itself up into four or five companies to resolve its antitrust case with the government. C5.
 
Technology Shares Continue Slide
Technology stocks slumped again, dragging the Nasdaq composite index down 71.17 points, or 1.82 percent, to 3,850.02, but the other main gauges finished the session mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 40.02 points, or 0.35 percent, to 11,551.10, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.31 points, or 0.44 percent, to 1,432.25. C11.
 
Long-term interest rates continued to rise as the yield on the 30-year bond rose to 6.71 percent from 6.67 on Tuesday. C11.
 
Corporate Bond Sales Go Online
The corporate bond market took a step into e-commerce as parts of two large deals were sold on the Internet. And the World Bank is planning a $3 billion offering that could take place entirely online. Market Place. C10.
 
Chief to Leave Barnesandnoble.com
After little more than a year as the chief executive of Barnesandnoble.com, the No. 2 online bookseller, Jonathan Bulkeley announced his departure, saying that he wanted to devote more time to his own Internet investments and his growing family. Mr. Bulkeley is one of a handful of senior executives who have left the bookseller after little more than a year at the company, which was started in 1997. C8.
 
Merrill Lynch Shifts Some Duties
Merrill Lynch named David Bowers to take on some of the responsibilities of its longtime chief investment strategist, Charles I. Clough, who is retiring this week. C10.
 
Start-Up in Online Security Deal
InterTrust Technologies, a start-up in Santa Clara, Calif., plans to announce an alliance with PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting concern, as it seeks to develop the technological standard for managing the security of files on the Internet. C2.
 
Indonesia Dismisses Bank Official
Indonesia's government tightened its control over the nation's much-disputed economic rebuilding effort, dismissing Glenn Yusuf, the chairman of its powerful bank restructuring agency, and replacing him with an official closer to President Abdurrahman Wahid. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,551.10 up 40.02
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.71% up 0.04
The euro -- $1.031 down 0.001
The dollar -- 105.98 yen down 0.01
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Producer Prices
December figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
Expected: +0.3%
 
Retail Sales
December figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
Ecpected: +1.0%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (93%); BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (52%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (50%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (93%); BOEING CO (92%); FMR CORP (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (52%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SATELLITE INDUSTRY (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); BOOKSTORES (85%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); ACCOUNTING (67%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); DEBT FINANCING (63%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (62%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JONATHAN BULKELEY (64%); GEORGE VANDERHEIDEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



335 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Pondering a Future, After an Arena

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 12

 BODY:
For Tarin Fuller, an art gallery owner and refugee from SoHo who has seen her share of gentrification and displacement, it is the price of progress, and you have to "embrace it, not fight it."
For her fellow gallery owner around the corner, Hal Laessig, who remembers the sacrifices of pioneering in an area that many thought was too far gone to be brought back, it is the murder of a community that had somehow managed to survive. 
 But the bulk of the business owners and residents in the downtown area who would be affected by Newark's plan to build an arena for the New Jersey Nets straddle the chasm between these two extremes.
This week, after the city formally submitted its plans to the Newark Central Planning Board to redevelop 40 acres as a sports complex to help revitalize the downtown area, most of those interviewed here said they wanted to be assured that they would be fairly compensated if they had to move.
Others, noting that the city planners had made last-minute changes that would displace fewer residents than their initial proposal did a year ago, were hopeful they might remain in the area, although they conceded that development pressure from a successful arena a few blocks away would probably push them out eventually.
But for now, those who are opposed and those who are edging toward acceptance are hanging together to try to extract the best possible deal from the city.
"We think they are trying to split the community," said Pedro Casqueira, who has lived for 28 years in this motley area of small one- and two-family frame houses, former factories and parking lots. "Some people are feeling more at ease with the changes that don't affect as many homes as before. The city is hoping that they will have less people to fight."
Under the city's new plans, 11 to 77 residences and 22 to 39 businesses would be displaced by the 18,500-seat arena that is the focus of the redevelopment effort. The city's preliminary plan would have affected 86 residences and about as many businesses.
Robert Silva, 31, who was born in the neighborhood and still lives there in his parents' three-story home, is president of the City Hall Area Redevelopment Group, which is fighting the redevelopment plan and has brought one of two lawsuits challenging it.
He concedes that there is a certain momentum on the city's side, given the support of important corporate players for the arena. He also concedes that many looking at the community, pockmarked as it is with vacant lots, parking lots and marginal businesses, may think it is not worth saving.
"We know outsiders might see us this way, and it is hard to know the intangibles that make people live where they live," Mr. Silva said. "But we feel like one big family here, and it just seems that the city didn't even consider us when they started making their plans."
The latest proposal, unveiled on Monday by Mayor Sharpe James, contained two options: a sweeping $375 million redevelopment plan and a stripped-down, less expensive version. But the mayor had a single message -- that the city was planning to build the arena with or without long-sought state help.
The scaled-down plan includes the privately financed $270 million arena, plus $25 million in city infrastructure improvements, land acquisition and parking garages. The more ambitious plan, envisioning $75 million in state assistance and more parking garages, includes a 25,000-seat soccer stadium. Both plans are predicated on condemning properties to make way for restaurants, stores and office buildings and a hotel.
The state has said it will not provide the $75 million unless the New Jersey Nets basketball team is able to bring the New Jersey Devils hockey team in on the arena deal, thus making it more economically feasible.
For the last few months, the YankeeNets, a new joint marketing entity formed by the New Jersey Nets and the New York Yankees, has been in talks to buy the Devils from John J. McMullen, the principal owner. Today, some people involved in the talks said there was a tentative agreement for a $175 million sale, but Mr. McMullen denied it.
While city officials are determined that an arena will be built no matter what, many in the area who would be most affected are skeptical.
At the Mulberry Street Plaza, an indoor array of market stalls, Sandy Braverman, the third-generation owner of the 70-year-old Newark Nut Company, is wary. According to the redevelopment maps drawn up by the city, the more ambitious of the two plans would put the soccer stadium and its parking where his company now stands. Under the scaled-back plan, his business, across Mulberry Street from the proposed entrance to the new Nets arena, would apparently remain.
For Ms. Fuller, the gallery owner with the stoic attitude, being displaced means giving up the renovated residential gallery space that she has only recently completed work on. The vast basement space that was once a boiler room is her pride and joy, she said, but she is confident that she will be compensated for the loss and will "do even better elsewhere in Newark."
That belief is echoed by her landlord, William R. Mikesell, an architect who bought the old four-story factory building 12 years ago and renovated it as offices, galleries and artists' spaces.
"In general, this is a terrific thing for the city but a terrific inconvenience for me personally," Mr. Mikesell said. "The process will come up with a fair and equitable price for me and for others, and I will just go and buy another building."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tarin Fuller, who owns an art gallery in Newark, said she favors redevelopment even if it means she has to move her business. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ART DEALERS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); REFUGEES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



336 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE NEW HAMPSHIRE RACE;
Personality, Not Policy, Is Big in New Hampshire

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: MADBURY, N.H., Jan. 10

 BODY:
Joy Wilson, a 24-year-old music teacher here in southeastern New Hampshire, decided to vote for Gov. George W. Bush in the Republican presidential primary because he had skipped a debate to attend an event in Texas honoring his wife. Mr. Bush was savaged by local Republicans for not showing up, but Ms. Wilson says the decision illuminated his values.
"It's the whole wife thing that clinched it for me," she said. "Besides, I like his dad." 
 Joan Cooper Burkholder, a semiretired saleswoman here who describes herself as of Social Security age, said she favored Vice President Al Gore, because "he's a good man and seems to have a very good wife."
And David Parker, 61, a truck driver from the town of New Ipswich, said he was leaning toward Senator John McCain, in part because Mr. McCain had been a prisoner of war in Vietnam.
"We owe him something," Mr. Parker said. "That guy went through hell."
In more than 50 interviews in Madbury -- best known as the hometown of the Democratic governor, Jeanne Shaheen -- and elsewhere around this state, voters were hard pressed to come up with a nagging national problem or other policy issue on which they would select their candidate.
Instead, in contrast to the New Hampshire primary voters of four or eight years ago, who were bursting with worries about the economy, the voters here this year seem fairly content. That leaves them the luxury to focus more than in recent elections on the personal attributes of the candidates, the candidates' spouses, the candidates' parents and, in the case of Mr. Gore, the candidate's boss. Little is heard of issues raised in debates, in television advertisements, in news coverage.
In discussing Mr. McCain, for example, few voters mentioned the intense coverage over letters he wrote to regulators on behalf of contributors. The dueling remedies for health care put forth by Mr. Gore and his Democratic rival, former Senator Bill Bradley, rarely cropped up. And voters did not seem familiar with, or interested in, the tax-cutting proposals of Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain.
"You watch people and pick out a personality you like," said Richard Colprit, 50, who owns a flower business here and mused about candidates as if he were inspecting petals on the latest bloom of roses. "That's why these guys are out shaking hands and kissing voters. It's personalities that get them the job. It's who's got the biggest smile. That's what elects people."
New Hampshirites are among the most spoiled voters in the nation. Many have been courted personally by candidates, and few are oblivious to the intense politicking here every four years. Now, with just three weeks remaining before those voters cast their ballots in the first-in-the-nation primaries, polls here show that on the Democratic side, Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley are locked in a neck-and-neck competition; so are two Republicans, Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush. While the candidates are aggressively trying to differentiate themselves on issues, most voters interviewed said they did not see much daylight between Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush, or between Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley.
"Basically McCain and Bush are not that different," concluded Mr. Colprit, who said his decision to back Mr. Bush had nothing to do with the fact that the Bush campaign bought 1,000 yellow roses from him for an event when the governor first arrived in New Hampshire last year. "I've been a Bush supporter because of his family background, his social values. And he has the whole party behind him. McCain is a little better speaker, but I have complete faith in George Bush, that he would gather good people around him."
Mary Ellen Foley, 37, a special-education teacher in Portsmouth, said: "I think Gore and Bradley are very similar. They're trying to make themselves different. I'm leaning more toward Gore. My only concern about Bradley is he may not have the experience or sophistication to represent us internationally. His remarks can be a little crude. His ideas don't seem as well thought out as Gore. Gore seems to have more specific answers. But I like that Bradley is somewhat of a maverick."
Ms. Foley said she would not dare vote for Mr. Bush, because of his facial expressions. "He has that Bill Clinton smirk that goes right through me," she said.
Although Ms. Burkholder backs Mr. Gore, she said she "would not be heartbroken" if Mr. Bradley snatched the nomination from him. "They are men who are a lot alike," she said. And anyway, the vice president is "dragging Clinton behind him like Marley and his chain -- remember 'A Christmas Carol' ?"
Taking a break from campaigning the other day, Mr. Bradley remarked that the way voters make up their minds is the "mysterious ingredient in our democracy." And the interviews seemed to indicate that many voters were still puzzling out the mystery of how they would vote on Feb. 1.
But people used strikingly similar shorthand in describing each of the leading candidates. Again and again, voters who were asked about Mr. Bush mentioned his family heritage and particularly his father, former President George Bush. As for Mr. McCain, voters repeatedly cited his suffering as a prisoner of war and his tell-it-like-it-is manner.
What struck them most about Mr. Gore was his relationship with Mr. Clinton. Very few thought it was a positive attribute, though some gave the vice president credit for his seasoning in the White House.
People appeared to have less fixed opinions of Mr. Bradley, but many said they liked him because he seemed to be a fresher face than Mr. Gore and was not burdened by the Clinton connection.
Jim Kurtz, a 35-year-old air traffic controller at Logan Airport in Boston, said that he was torn between Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain but that the governor might be more desirable because of his family background.
"Bush has his father to rely on if he gets stuck," Mr. Kurtz said as he looked for a video to rent at a shop near his home in Dover. "That's a joke!"
But asked if he was truly kidding, Mr. Kurtz turned serious: "He has connections. I liked his dad as president. McCain did very well in the debate the other night. And he came up with the war stories -- that's pretty interesting stuff. But I don't know if he has the experience."
Ted Olivo, 28, a shipping supervisor at a Wal-Mart in Dover, said he too favored Mr. Bush because of his father. "I'm sure he'll give the same position on foreign policy that his father had," Mr. Olivo said. " 'Don't mess with the U. S. of A.' "
Pumping gas in Madbury on a wind-whipped night, Perry Shaw, a supermarket manager, said he was leaning toward Mr. McCain.
"I'm watching the debates, listening to them all," he said. "But McCain seems like a straight shooter. He says what he thinks right off. I respect him for what he's been through in Vietnam. That wouldn't decide my vote, but it's important."
Mr. Shaw, 48, said he was withholding judgment on Mr. Bush. "He's raised a lot of money," he said. "But I want to hear his opinions more."
While some Democrats said Mr. Gore had benefited from his experience in the White House, voter after voter said his ties to Mr. Clinton were his biggest problem.
"I think he's forever doomed because he's linked to Clinton," said Diane Lynch, 28, a graduate student in social work at the University of New Hampshire. "I think he wants to back away and put some distance between himself and Bill Clinton. And who can blame him? He thinks that's his ticket in, that's his way back."
Even so, Ms. Lynch said she had nothing against Mr. Gore, but was backing Mr. Bradley because she did not think the vice president could dispel the Clinton cloud. "Does he rub me the wrong way? No," she said of Mr. Gore. On the other hand, Mr. Bradley appeals to her because "he's very similar to Gore, but he's taking it to the next liberal level."
Mary Desmond, 26, a systems analyst from Hampton, said she was backing Mr. Gore because "he's not a snake like his boss."
"He just seems to have a lot of family values,' she said, "and seems to be a normal person."
Ms. Desmond said she had reached her decision without watching the debates. Of Mr. Bradley, she said: "I don't pay a lot of attention to what's going on in the world, so I don't know a lot about him -- only what I see on the commercials, and they only tell the good stuff."
Kevin Hampsey, 36, a property rental manager from Jaffrey, was one of the few voters interviewed who gave Mr. Gore credit for an economy that just seems to keep on rolling. "I don't want to get off the bus right now," he said, "so that's why I'm continuing to support Al Gore. Now, if it was back in '90, when the economy stunk, then I'd consider trying to find somebody else."
Although Mr. Gore seemed widely disliked by Republicans, many were less opposed to Mr. Bradley.
"Bill Bradley's the lesser of two evils they have on the Democratic side," said Mark Chaffee, 28, a computer systems developer from Somersworth. "There's nothing that Bill Bradley has said that I can disagree with. I've never liked Al Gore at all. I don't find him to be very likable, and being associated with the administration is going to put him in a bad light for me."
Mr. Chaffee said that while "it varies every day," on this day he was leaning toward Mr. McCain but was also intrigued by Mr. Bush and Steve Forbes. "I think I like McCain a little more than the other two," he said. "He seems to have a strong character. That gives him an edge at this point." But, Mr. Chaffee conceded, "there's not a custom-made candidate for me." Asked who the perfect choice would be, he said with a laugh, "Ronald Reagan."
Most voters brushed off all the Republican candidacies except those of Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain.
"I kind of like Steve Forbes, but he is becoming kind of a joke," said Stacie Gregg, 28, a paramedical worker in Dover. "He keeps running, and nothing happens."
Mr. Colprit, the owner of the flower business, was just as direct.
"Forbes is a joke," he said. "You have to be realistic about whether they're going to win. I'm sorry. Alan Keyes is a very nice person and I hate to burst his bubble, but he's not going to be elected president."
Mr. Colprit's wife, Valerie, said she was also backing Mr. Bush, not for his positions but because of his family.
"They're just that Campbell's Chicken Noodle-style type of family," she said. "The best feeling I'm going to get is, God Bless America! Clinton is out, and we've got the Bush family."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joy Wilson -- Music teacher who supports Gov. George W. Bush -- "It's the whole wife thing that clinched it for me. Besides, I like his dad."; Mark Chaffee -- Web systems developer -- "Bill Bradley's the lesser of two evils they have on the Democratic side. There's nothing that Bill Bradley has said that I can disagree with."; Joan Cooper Burkholder -- Semiretired saleswoman who favors Al Gore -- "He's a good man and seems to have a very good wife." (Photographs by Jared Leeds for the New York Times)(pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (56%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (56%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; DEBATING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); AL GORE (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



337 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Lower East Side Story

 BODY:

To the Editor:
It was with a great deal of pleasure that I read "Visions of Greener Pastures Reinvent the Lower East Side" (Jan. 6). The article recognizes the positive results that the collaboration of efforts by several community-based organizations have been able to achieve in stimulating the Lower East Side's renaissance. You balance the benefits of neighborhood revitalization with the potential for loss of the very historic cultural fabric that has made the area distinct. 
 I would like to correct one misstatement; toward the end of the article, there is reference to the current effort to nominate a Lower East Side district to the state and national registers of historic places.
While the Lower East Side Conservancy, a nonprofit organization whose mission is the preservation of both the neighborhood's historic buildings and its Jewish cultural heritage, supports the nomination of the national register historic district, the sole sponsoring organization for this effort is, and always has been, the Lower East Side Business Improvement District.
 
HOLLY KAYE
New York
Executive Director
Lower East Side Conservancy
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOWER EAST SIDE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LOWER EAST SIDE CONSERVANCY LOWER EAST SIDE CONSERVANCY (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER EAST SIDE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LOWER EAST SIDE CONSERVANCY LOWER EAST SIDE CONSERVANCY (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); HISTORIC SITES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

PERSON: KAYE, HOLLY

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



338 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Whose Community?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I was troubled by your article on the changes in the Lower East Side. While it's true that the old tenement blocks are mutating into a hip zone, this isn't sweet fruit for anyone except people with money. Real estate types may rejoice at the astronomical prices, but the bulk of us are left wondering where we will possibly be able to live. 
 I'm glad to see that many previously warehoused apartments are being returned to residential use. But I have to question the assumption that seems implicit in your article: that high prices equal community renewal.
 
ROBERT NEUWIRTH
Brooklyn
 
The House & Home section welcomes letters from readers. Letters must include the writer's name, address and telephone number. They can be sent to House & Home, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York 10036, or by e-mail to home@nytimes.com. Letters become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished in all media. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: THE HOUSE&HOME (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE HOUSE&HOME (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; LOWER EAST SIDE (NYC); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRENDS (88%); REAL ESTATE (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); 

PERSON: NEUWIRTH, ROBERT ROBERT NEUWIRTH BROOKLYN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



339 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Costly Mideast Peace

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While the negotiations between Israel and Syria may be an encouraging sign for a more peaceful era in the Middle East (front page, Jan. 11), the cost of this new change should not be borne by American taxpayers. The price tag for a deal has been estimated at $15 billion. 
 Israel must take steps for its future and security with its own military and economic strength as its guarantee. Syria should negotiate for the sake of its future, not for a bribe by the United States. Otherwise, the treaty would be only a piece of paper.
In the long run, spending the $15 billion in the United States will be of greater benefit to the Israelis, the Syrians and, most important, the Americans.
 
SCOTT DAVID LIPPE
Fair Lawn, N.J., Jan. 11, 2000
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SYRIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: LIPPE, SCOTT D SCOTT DAVID (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



340 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: Costly Mideast Peace;
A P.S. to Assad

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman offers us the letter he hopes President Clinton will write to President Hafez al-Assad of Syria now that the Israeli-Syrian talks have adjourned ("Dear Hafez . . .," column, Jan. 11). Let me add a paragraph: 
 "Dear Hafez, did you watch CNN this morning? Did you see that America Online and Time Warner have merged? This deal is many times larger than your annual G.D.P. Remember, Hafez, the question is not whether Israel is a part of the Middle East but whether Syria will become part of the 21st century."
AVI ULMAN
Plainview, N.Y., Jan. 11, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (91%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (57%); ASSAD OF SYRIA (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSAD OF SYRIA (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; SYRIA; SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (91%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: ULMAN, AVI; ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000



341 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 33; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3321 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on Page 12.
 
Now Playing
 
"ANGELA'S ASHES," starring Emily Watson, Robert Carlyle, Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens and Michael Legge. Directed by Alan Parker (R, 120 minutes). Anyone who thinks poverty is not pretty would have to think twice after seeing this artfully desolate-looking film version of Frank McCourt's boyhood memoir. The movie describes dire suffering alongside inspiring, uplifting episodes. Directed reverently by Mr. Parker, it parades forth a series of familiar anecdotes from Mr. McCourt's book without taking on much weight. This is the kind of film about hardship in which nobody has indoor plumbing, but everybody has clean hair (Janet Maslin). 

"ANNA AND THE KING," starring Jodie Foster and Chow Yun-Fat. Directed by Andy Tennant (PG-13, 140 minutes). The same story that inspired the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical "The King and I" is the basis for this movie about the British schoolteacher Anna Leonowens (Ms. Foster), who travels to Bangkok in 1862 to educate the 58 children of King Mongkut (Mr. Chow). Although the story has been given a contemporary multicultural perspective that is critical of British imperialism, the picturesque film tells essentially the same story but without the beloved songs, which are badly missed. Ms. Foster's Anna is another of her nobler-than-thou ice queens, and Mr. Chow's king is authoritative but less than thunderous (Stephen Holden).
 
* "ANY GIVEN SUNDAY," starring Al Pacino, Cameron Diaz, Dennis Quaid, James Woods and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Oliver Stone (R, 160 minutes). Mr. Stone's brawling, hyper-macho professional football film has enough in-the-thick-of-it playing-field action to satisfy the fantasies of most armchair players. In the style of Mr. Stone's "Wall Street," the movie is also a crude morality play that pits the old ways against the new with the veteran coach Tony D'Amato (Mr. Pacino) embodying tradition and a young hotshot quarterback, Willie Beamen (Mr. Foxx), the new. Although the acting is uneven (Ms. Diaz is disappointing as a tough team owner), and the final scenes are shamelessly "Rocky"-ish, the movie delivers a credible, action-charged vision of the frenzied world of professional sports as a metaphor for the volatility of American culture (Holden).
 
"BICENTENNIAL MAN," starring Robin Williams, Embeth Davidtz, Sam Neill and Oliver Platt. Directed by Chris Columbus (PG, 132 minutes). This gushy Robin Williams star vehicle follows the 200-year quest of a household robot named Andrew to become human. Directed by the schmaltzmeister Chris Columbus, who steered this star through "Mrs. Doubtfire," the movie is a joke-strewn, sentimental man-machine allegory determined to make us feel good about being human. Corny speeches exalting freedom, the joys of sex and the mystery of mortality punctuate the tale. Except for Mr. Williams, the acting is strictly of sitcom caliber (Holden).
 
* "BOYS DON'T CRY," starring Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny. Directed by Kimberly Peirce (R, 114 minutes). This stunning debut feature tells the strange and resonant story of Brandon Teena, who despite being born Teena Brandon went on to create a charismatic identity as a young man. Brandon's ultimately wrenching tale may sound tabloid-ready, but on screen it turns into Theodore Dreiser's idea of American tragedy. The film makes it hauntingly real and even tenderly romantic, with the astonishing acting needed to make it work. One of last year's best (Maslin).
 
* "THE CIDER HOUSE RULES," starring Tobey Maguire, Charlize Theron and Delroy Lindo. Directed by Lasse Hallstrom (PG-13, 125 minutes). Radically downsized in scope, and its examination of the issue of abortion greatly softened, John Irving's sixth novel (with a Dickensian screenplay by the author) has been turned into a lovely World War II-era fable about a young man venturing out into the world. Mr. Maguire is Homer Wells, a doleful innocent raised in an orphanage by Dr. Wilbur Larch (Michael Caine), who performs abortions. Fleeing the institution with a golden young couple (Ms. Theron and Paul Rudd), he becomes an apple picker. Sentimental but smart, the movie has the sweetness and narrative drive of a 1940's "David Copperfield" (Holden).
 
"CRADLE WILL ROCK," starring Emily Watson, John Turturro, Ruben Blades, John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Susan Sarandon, Bill Murray and Vanessa Redgrave. Written and directed by Tim Robbins (R, 132 minutes). This huge Depression-era story features well-known figures from Orson Welles to Nelson Rockefeller to Diego Rivera, and it works them into an ambitious "Ragtime"-like tableau. Though too many figures in this landscape are reduced to naive caricature, Mr. Robbins and his impressive cast bring strong passions to bear upon this (mostly) true story of a legendary event: the trouble-fraught production, by Welles and John Houseman, of the banner-waving 1936 agitprop musical "The Cradle Will Rock." Mr. Robbins and his cast play out all sides of this event with the certitude that its importance lives on (Maslin).
 
* "THE END OF THE AFFAIR," starring Ralph Fiennes, Julianne Moore, Stephen Rea and Ian Hart. Directed by Neil Jordan (R, 105 minutes). Mr. Jordan's intoxicating version of Graham Greene's 1951 novel, in which an illicit affair becomes a far greater gamble than either lover could have imagined. For this fearlessly eclectic filmmaker, this is one more intelligent, brooding love story with a secret twist. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Moore breathe life into it with a dreamy, erotic intensity that in no way trivializes the film's underlying ideas about religious faith. Period detail (the setting is London in the mid-1940's) is sumptuously heightened by the inspired costume designer Sandy Powell ("Shakespeare in Love") (Maslin).
 
"FANTASIA/2000," with James Levine and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and introductions by Steve Martin, Bette Midler, Mr. Levine, Itzhak Perlman, James Earl Jones, Angela Lansbury, Quincy Jones and Penn and Teller. Various directors (G, 75 minutes). The new millennial version of Disney's 1940 groundbreaking fusion of animation and classical music includes seven new segments and keeps one from the original film (the wonderful "Sorcerer's Apprentice," starring Mickey Mouse). Despite the science-fiction title and the Imax-size screen on which it is shown, "Fantasia/2000" is more backward-looking than futuristic. The two best segments are "Rhapsody in Blue," a witty Manhattan-in-the-Jazz-Age homage to the caricaturist Al Hirschfeld set to the music of George Gershwin, and the finale (set to Stravinsky's "Firebird Suite") in which a cometlike sprite whooshes around the globe explosively creating, destroying and renewing the planet's life forms. Movie star introductions lend the film the feel of a deluxe corporate promotion. At the Sony Imax Theater, Broadway at 68th Street, Manhattan (Holden).
 
"GALAXY QUEST," starring Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman. Directed by Dean Parisot (PG, 102 minutes). Whether you love "Star Trek" or laugh at it, your starship has come in, docking in the form of this amiable comedy that simultaneously manages to spoof these popular futuristic space adventures and replicate the very elements that have made them so durable. The film spins out of a single joke, about a bunch of washed-up actors from a canceled television series who are enlisted by some credulous interplanetary simpletons to champion them in a conflict with a scaly, bellicose villain who has all but exterminated their people. And soon they are off on a genuine space adventure. If "Galaxy Quest" never attains consistently giddy heights as it plays out its combination of knowing satire and heroic adventure, it keeps its tongue firmly in its cheek, offers a few genuine laughs, moves swiftly if not at warp speed, and is led by a talented cast (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
"GIRL, INTERRUPTED," starring Winona Ryder and Angelina Jolie. Directed by James Mangold (R, 120 minutes). Except for being several years too old for the role, Winona Ryder, an actress who oozes high-strung intelligence, is ideally cast as Susanna Kaysen, a precollege-age girl who lands in a Cambridge mental institution in 1967 after a halfhearted suicide attempt. (The movie is based on Ms. Kaysen's memoir.) The period details are perfect, and Ms. Ryder has the courage to make her character a pain in the neck. But the small, introspective movie is nearly stolen by Ms. Jolie as a charismatic, brutally truth-telling sociopath who becomes Susanna's best friend (Holden).
 
"THE GREEN MILE," starring Tom Hanks, Michael Clarke Duncan, David Morse, Doug Hutchison, Sam Rockwell and Bonnie Hunt. Written and directed by Frank Darabont (R, 180 minutes). In adapting the death row drama that Stephen King wrote in multiple installments, the director of "The Shawshank Redemption" could have managed more economy and fewer talky bits of business around the cellblock. Still, this lengthy film is vivid and well played. Smooth ensemble acting builds up to the discovery that a gigantic condemned man (Mr. Duncan) is a prisoner with very special abilities, which gives the film its mixture of religious overtones and mild horror. Mr. Hanks, as a wry Southern prison guard, is so unaffectedly good that it's redundant to say so (Maslin).
 
* "THE HURRICANE," starring Denzel Washington. Directed by Norman Jewison (R, 120 minutes). The life story of Rubin (Hurricane) Carter, a middleweight contender who spent nearly 20 years in prison for a triple murder he didn't commit, is a big, schmaltzy ballad of a movie redeemed by Mr. Washington's moving, bone-deep portrayal of the boxer from Paterson, N.J. But the movie plays fast and loose with the facts, giving far too much credit to the members of a Canadian commune who took up Mr. Carter's cause and all but eliminating his heroic co-defendant John Artis from the story. And the minor characters are either saints or monsters. Yet the story of a man heroically fighting his demons and winning his freedom is still inspiring (Holden).
 
* "THE INSIDER," starring Al Pacino, Russell Crowe and Christopher Plummer. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 155 minutes). Mr. Mann directs this taut thriller about the tobacco industry whistle-blower Jeffrey Wigand with pulse-quickening panache. And he illustrates why, in the corporate climate of the 90's, truth-telling is a riskier business than it was circa "All the President's Men." While Mr. Pacino delivers galvanizing moral outrage as a producer for "60 Minutes," and Mr. Plummer wickedly mimics Mike Wallace, Mr. Crowe movingly captures the complexity of Mr. Wigand's situation. Shaky docudrama ethics cloud the film's take on "60 Minutes." But this is an inordinately well-played thriller, with Mr. Mann's stylistic brio at its best (Maslin).
 
"MAGNOLIA," starring Tom Cruise, Melinda Dillon, Philip Seymour Hoffman, William H. Macy, Julianne Moore, John C. Reilly and Jason Robards. Written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson (R, 180 minutes). In "Magnolia" the colossally talented Mr. Anderson has set up an artfully orchestrated symphony of intersecting L.A. stories, with many of the cast members from his "Boogie Nights" assembled to form a charismatic ensemble. The movie is saved from its own worst ideas by the intimacy of the performances. Its single biggest surprise is Tom Cruise in the role of a strutting, obscenity-spouting cult figure named Frank Mackey (Maslin).
 
"MAN ON THE MOON," starring Jim Carrey, Courtney Love, Danny DeVito and Paul Giamatti. Directed by Milos Forman (R, 118 minutes). Andy Kaufman: genius or creep? This biography takes the more positive view and minimizes the kinkier aspects of Kaufman's misanthropic performance art, preferring a big, vibrant collection of greatest hits. Mr. Carrey channels his character brilliantly and makes his material funnier and tighter than it was in fact. And Mr. Forman directs with the same enthusiasm for outlaw Americana that he brought to "The People vs. Larry Flynt." But the writers, who also wrote that film and "Ed Wood," can't easily find an unself-conscious side of the late comic artist to work with. This feels like the authorized version. It has no real answer to the question of who Kaufman was and how he got that way (Maslin).
 
"ONEGIN," starring Ralph Fiennes, Liv Tyler and Martin Donovan. Directed by Martha Fiennes (not rated, 106 minutes). As the directorial debut of Mr. Fiennes's sister Martha, "Onegin" diminishes Pushkin's epic 19th-century novel "Eugene Onegin" into a cramped little soap opera whose two stars are painfully mismatched. While Mr. Fiennes acts up a fine storm as the arrogant, cynical title character who doesn't believe in love, Ms. Tyler, who plays his romantic nemesis, is an inert cipher. Somehow, even the grand ballrooms of 1820's St. Petersburg look drab and chintzy (Holden).
 
"SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS," starring Ethan Hawke, James Cromwell and Max Von Sydow. Directed by Scott Hicks (PG-13, 130 minutes). This director's follow-up to "Shine" is the cinematic equivalent of an arty coffee-table book. It is so busy illustrating the story (with elaborate flashbacks and montage sequences) that it forgets to be dramatic. Set in the Pacific Northwest in 1950, the movie looks back to World War II and the charged relationships between Japanese-Americans and whites on an island north of the Puget Sound. Mr. Hawke is the brooding reporter covering the trial and Mr. Von Sydow the defense lawyer who is the film's official conscience. Robert Richardson is responsible for the gorgeous cinematography (Holden).
 
* "STUART LITTLE," starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie and Jonathan Lipnicki. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 92 minutes). E. B. White's 1945 children's classic has been adapted into a lovely family film about a little mouse (with the voice of Michael J. Fox) who is adopted by humans but runs afoul of their fluffy white Persian cat, Snowbell (Nathan Lane). The movie creates an enchanted storybook version of New York and has what may be the most exciting toy boat race (in Central Park) ever filmed. Thanks to Mr. Lane's sly, wise-guy vocal impersonation, Snowbell nearly steals a movie that is funny and sweet but never cloying (Holden).
 
"SWEET AND LOWDOWN," starring Sean Penn, Samantha Morton and Uma Thurman. Directed by Woody Allen (PG-13, 95 minutes). In homage to the kind of jaunty 1930's jazz that has been heard on many of his other films' soundtracks, Mr. Allen imagines a consummate jazz character: Emmet Ray (played with gusto by Mr. Penn), who can play the guitar as gorgeously as Django Reinhardt but lacks certain interpersonal skills when it comes to his private life. Borrowing attributes of various real musicians, the film turns Emmet into another one of Mr. Allen's cad-geniuses and gives him a long-suffering mute laundress as a sweetheart. (Ms. Morton works miracles in her wordless role.) But on the storytelling level, the film remains flimsy. It's the musical interludes, frequent and lovingly presented, that keep it alive (Maslin).
 
* "THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY," starring Matt Damon, Jude Law, Gwyneth Paltrow, Cate Blanchett and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Written and directed by Anthony Minghella (R, 135 minutes). There are diabolically smart surprises wherever you care to look in this glittering thriller. Proving that the brilliance of "The English Patient" was no fluke, Mr. Minghella shapes a hypnotic, sensually charged adaptation of Patricia High smith's fascinatingly reptilian murder story. The traffic-stopping cast includes Mr. Damon as the dangerous chameleon of the title and, in a star-making role, the English actor Jude Law as a rich dilettante who exerts a homoerotic magnetism. Ms. Paltrow plays the odd woman out with the shrewdness of a fine character actress, while Ms. Blanchett makes the delirious most of her role as a needy American post-debutante. As the story's odious playboy-snob, Mr. Hoffman is scene-stealingly wonderful. Gorgeously photographed in Italy by John Seale (Maslin).
 
* "TITUS," starring Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, Alan Cumming, Harry Lennix and Jonathan Rhys Meyers. Directed by Julie Taymor (R, 160 minutes). Ms. Taymor, the theater director and puppeteer who created transfixing stage pictures in "The Lion King" and "Juan Darien," has turned Shakespeare's goriest tragedy, "Titus Andronicus," into a powerful contemplation of murderous revenge enacted throughout history. Mr. Hopkins is ghoulishly funny and tragic as the title character, whose political stupidity sets in motion a devastating chain reaction of killing, torture and retaliation. Ms. Lange is Tamora, the captured Goth empress who strikes back. Although the movie's British theatrical and American film acting styles don't mesh, Ms. Taymor's vision is realized with a shattering force in time-traveling imagery that blends ancient Rome with Mussolini's Italy and contemporary cyberpunk flash (Holden).
 
* "TOPSY-TURVY," starring Allan Corduner and Jim Broadbent. Directed by Mike Leigh (R, 161 minutes). Mr. Leigh's grandly entertaining "Topsy-Turvy" is one of those films that create a mix of erudition, pageantry and delectable acting opportunities, much as "Shakespeare in Love" did last year. Instead of a love-struck young playwright, it presents the curiously matched personalities of the librettist William Schwenk Gilbert and the composer Arthur Sullivan in the midst of a robust, knowing, frequently hilarious look at the musical theater over which they held sway (Maslin).
 
* "TOY STORY 2," with the voices of Tom Hanks and Tim Allen. Directed by John Lasseter; a Pixar Animated Studios film (G, 98 minutes). A wonderfully playful sequel, sustaining the first film's wit and novelty while bringing new sophistication to computer-generated animation. And here is welcome proof that Hollywood can still make movies to please audiences of any age or persuasion. From its opening (a perfectly adorable "Star Wars" parody) to its Capra-esque conclusion, this is a seamless work with more metaphorical cleverness than that usually found in the toy bin. Colorful new characters and more adventurous action enhance the story of how Woody falls into the clutches of a sleazy toy dealer, experiences new-found celebrity and needs to be rescued by his fabulous old friends (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
THE NINTH ANNUAL NEW YORK JEWISH FILM FESTIVAL. Featuring two world premieres, five United States premieres and eight New York premieres, the Ninth Annual Jewish Film Festival begins on Sunday at the Walter Reade Theater at Lincoln Center. This collaboration of the Jewish Museum and the Film Society of Lincoln Center will present 25 productions that shed light on the Jewish experience, from Eastern and Western Europe to Israel, Canada and the United States. The festival includes a sidebar, "Berlin Metropolis: Jews and Jewish Culture in Early German Cinema," consisting of historical archival films presented in conjunction with the Jewish Museum exhibition "Berlin Metropolis: Jews and the New Culture, 1890-1918," continuing through April 23. Two early films by Ernst Lubitsch, "Shoe Palace Pinkus" (1916) and "Meyer From Berlin" (1918), each starring the director, open the festival at 1 p.m. on Sunday. On Jan. 23 a rare fragment of another Lubitsch film will be shown, "When I Was Dead" (1916). The festival continues through Jan. 27 at the Walter Reade. Admission: $9; $5 for Film Society members; $4.50 for the elderly at weekday matinees. Information and screening schedule: (212) 875-5600 (Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A scene from "When I Was Dead," a 1916 film by Ernst Lubitsch, at the Walter Reade. (The Jewish Museum); A scene from "Rhapsody in Blue," a homage to the caricaturist Al Hirschfeld, in "Fantasia/2000." (Disney Enterprises)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); THAILAND (74%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); THAILAND (74%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ATHLETES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); 

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



342 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 7; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC REVIEW;
Creative Testimony to a Time of Turbulence

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
The period from just after World War I until the end of World War II was the most tumultuous of the 20th century. There was catastrophic economic collapse, Fascism, genocide, the atomic bomb. But this was also the era of the Roaring Twenties and the New Deal, a time of collectivism, unrecedented cooperation between international allies and bold innovation in the arts.
The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is surveying the music of these decades in an intriguing three-week series of seven concerts, with companion lectures, called "Crisis and Creativity (1922-1945)." It is the second installment of its Musical Evolutions series, which began in the 1997-98 season. Of course, just selecting great works from those years would not guarantee interesting programs. But the society has come up with some unusual offerings. 
 The series began auspiciously on Sunday afternoon with a sold-out recital at Alice Tully Hall by the violinist Joshua Bell and the pianist Frederic Chiu. This was Mr. Bell's first New York recital in almost three years and he is in top form.
He and Mr. Chiu chose works by four composers who each responded in a particular way to the penchant at the time for cross-stylistic borrowing. Copland's Sonata for Violin and Piano, completed in 1943, is from the middle of the composer's "Americana" phase. Certain qualities of modal folk music and sturdy Protestant hymns are evoked in this wistful, subdued work. Even the last movement, with its snappy dance rhythms, has a restrained, melancholic quality. Mr. Bell is noted for his lustrous tone. But in this work he kept his tone appropriately focused, executed the lyrical lines with an affecting restraint and dispatched the rhythms crisply, all qualities that characterized Mr. Chiu's nimble playing as well.
Next came a compelling performance of Prokofiev's Sonata No. 1 for Violin and Piano, which the composer worked on from 1938 until 1946, brutal years in Russian history. This dark work, by turns biting and ethereal, evokes its time. The second movement, with its percussive, brusque, shifting rhythms, batters you into an intent state of listening. Yet Prokofiev composed few things more beautiful than the end of the opening Andante movement, where a choralelike theme in the piano is enshrouded with lacy filigrees from the violin.
Bartok's well-known "First Rhapsody" incorporates Hungarian folk music into a pungent contemporary voice, and the performance was vibrant. Gershwin's Three Preludes, transcribed for violin and piano by Heifetz, was offered as a prelude to the Ravel Sonata for Violin and Piano. Fractured, harmonically punchy evocations of jazz pervade the Ravel, not just the middle movement, "Blues," but the undulant, Impressionistic first movement and the breathless perpetual motion finale as well. This exciting performance made the Ravel seem like the most modern work on the program.
Future programs in the series offer some rarely heard works in interesting contexts. For example, a program with works by Weill, Strauss and Schulhoff will begin with two cantatas for voice and chamber ensemble by the Schoenberg student Hanns Eisler, whose Marxist beliefs led him to popularize his style right in the midst of the dizzying period this worthwhile series is focusing on.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua Bell in a "Crisis and Creativity" concert at Alice Tully Hall. (Chris Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS MUSIC (92%); WORLD WAR II (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); 

PERSON: CHIU, FREDERIC; BELL, JOSHUA; TOMMASINI, ANTHONY JOSHUA BELL (79%); FREDERIC CHIU (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



343 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 44; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:

Big Plans For Summer
Some 92,000 people have visited the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, the country's largest center for contemporary visual and performing arts, since it opened in May. "We'd hoped to clear 100,000 the first year," said Joseph C. Thompson, the museum's director. "We've almost hit our target already." 
 Situated in North Adams, Mass., an economically depressed blue-collar town of 14,000, the museum is attracting the kind of tourists and homeowners who frequent places in the Berkshires like Tanglewood in Lenox, summer home to the Boston Symphony Orchestra; the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge; the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket; and the Williams College Museum of Art and the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, both in Williamstown.
"Thirty percent of our visitors are from the New York metropolitan area and 30 percent are from Boston," Mr. Thompson said. "The rest are from all over the country and the world. We have a strong international presence."
Because of its strong program in the performing arts, Mr. Thompson added, the museum also seems to attract a younger audience than do places like Tanglewood and the Norman Rockwell Museum.
But attendance at all the cultural institutions in Berkshire County is seasonal. The most popular time begins around the middle of June and goes through October. During the quiet winter months, officials at Mass MOCA firm up their plans for summer programs while offering smaller shows.
Today it is opening "Super Model," an exhibition by artists who fabricate and photograph artificial landscapes and citiscapes. The show runs through June 9.
The next of the much larger exhibitions, which are to be on view for at least nine months, is "Unnatural Science," a collection of works that use the discoveries, inventions and methods of science as inspiration. The show, which will replace the museum's inaugural show, will take two months to install, but the museum will stay open so that visitors can watch it take shape.
"Unnatural Science" will formally open on June 3 and run through March 15, 2001. It will occupy all 19 galleries. Because the gallery spaces are fashioned from abandoned mills, 19th-century factory buildings and overgrown courtyards -- all large in scale -- the museum can show works so big that the average museum doesn't have room to exhibit them.
"Unnatural Science" includes two commissioned pieces. One, by the California sculptor Tim Hawkinson, is an installation piece that plays on the word organ. The other is by the photographer Catherine Chalmers and consists of 30 photographs, each three by five feet and showing a four-step food chain.
The show will also feature several works that have been exhibited elsewhere. Kiki Smith, for example, will show "Sky" from her "Paradise Cage," reworking the version of the piece that was at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles last year.
In "Paradise Cage," Ms. Smith explores astronomy 500 years ago and incorporates glass stars and large glass animals in the work.
Also on view will be "Borealis" by Steina Vasulka, an American artist born in Iceland who was a pioneer in video art in the late 1960's. Her piece is being lent by the Center for Art and Media Technology in Karlsruhe, Germany.
It envelops the visitor in electronically manipulated sounds and images from the stark Icelandic landscape -- water, waves, volcanic rocks and geological formations.
The pieces in "Unnatural Science" come from various artists, dealers, collectors and museums all over the world.
"We noticed, over the last 10 years, an international group of artists working in the realm of micro science," Mr. Thompson said. "Whereas our last large exhibition featured mostly artists from the 1950's and 1960's, most of the artists in this show are younger and the subject matter is hotter, more narrative."
 
Photos for Texas
When the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston opens its $50 million building in March, with twice the space it has now, the museum will have its first permanent gallery devoted to photography.
In anticipation of the expansion, Anne Tucker, the museum's photography curator, has been enlarging the institution's holdings. In the process, she has created a model that Peter C. Marzio, the museum's director, says he hopes will be copied by other departments.
This week the museum announced that it had acquired 122 photographs: 36 by Diane Arbus, 20 by Brassai, 2 by Gerhard Richter, 2 by William Eggleston, 30 by Yasuhiro Ishimoto, including his "Katsura" portfolio," and 32 by David Levinthal.
Most were gifts. The Arbus photographs, for example, were given by Gay Block, a photographer from Houston who now lives in Santa Fe.
In appreciation of the gift, the museum's board voted to match its value with $100,000 to purchase other photographs for the collection.
"That's the kind of leveraging we're going to try to do in the future," Mr. Marzio said. "For people to see that their donation creates other donations is important. If it works for photography, we're going to try to see if it can work in other departments as well."
 
To and Fro
More comings and goings this week in museums and auction houses:
*After more than 27 years at Sotheby's, Thierry Millerand, head of European furniture worldwide, has decided to leave. "Sotheby's has changed so much, with tremendous growth in areas like the Internet, that I feel my skills can be better used elsewhere," Mr. Millerand said.
*At the Whitney Museum of American Art in Manhattan the plum job -- curator of contemporary art -- remains vacant. But Maxwell L. Anderson, the Whitney's director, created and filled two new curatorial positions. Christiane Paul, will be adjunct curator of new media arts. She is the editor and publisher of Intelligent Agent, a print and online magazine about interactive media technology in arts and education, and will be responsible for presenting, collecting and conserving new media works. Michael Hays will be adjunct curator of architecture. An architectural historian, he is a professor of architectural theory at Harvard University Graduate School of Design.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasuhiro Ishimoto gave his "Chicago" (1960) to the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston. (Museum of Fine Arts, Houston)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (HOUSTON); MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NORTH ADAMS)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (HOUSTON); MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NORTH ADAMS)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ART; PHOTOGRAPHY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); DANCE (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); CITIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (56%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL JOSEPH C THOMPSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



344 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 50; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3055 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES

 BODY:

ATTRACTIONS
 
Museums and Sites
 
AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West at 79th Street. "Capturing Time: The New York Times Capsule" includes some of the nearly 50 design proposals received in a New York Times Magazine competition to create a time capsule for preserving artifacts from today for the next 1,000 years. The winning capsule design, by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, has its own special display. The capsule, which is to be opened in the year 3000, will be given a permanent home at the museum. The exhibition remains on view through March 26. "Reaching for the Stars: Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Center for Earth and Space," an exhibition through March 15, features computer renderings, architectural models and samples of materials used in constructing the new Rose Center, which is to open in mid-February. "The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter," through February. Admission is by timed entry only. Tickets, which can be reserved in advance and include museum admission, are $14 for adults, $10.50 for students and the elderly, $8.50 for children. "Body Art: Marks of Identity," on view through May 29. Weekend activities this month focus on the diversity of the boroughs of Brooklyn and the Bronx. Each weekend explores a different community, in the Leonhardt People Center, on the second floor. This weekend is produced in collaboration with the Point Community Development Corporation, an emerging community-based organization dedicated to the economic, cultural and environmental restoration of the Hunts Point section of the South Bronx. Tomorrow and Sunday: At 1 p.m., two videos, "On Point" (1999), about mentoring youth at Hunts Point, by the Bronx-based filmmaker Pam Sporn, and "A Walk Through Hunts Point" (1999), about waste issues in Hunts Point. At 1:30 and 3:15 p.m., theater and poetry with the Hunts Point Street Theater Troupe. At 2:15 and 4:30 p.m., dance and music with Fort Hunts Point youth groups. A museum highlight is the 8,830-square-foot Gottesman Hall of Planet Earth, built around rock samples and multimedia displays that explain how Earth works. Other highlights include 168 specimens and 11 large-scale models of rock formations, video stations depicting scientists at work and an "Earth Event Wall" that broadcasts news of events like hurricanes, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. Other museum highlights include the Hall of Biodiversity, which focuses on the variety and interdependence of living things. Imax films are "Epic Journeys: The Great Migrations" and "Everest." (Call for the schedule.) In the Imax Theater on Friday and Saturday nights at 9, "Laser Zeppelin in 3-D"; at 10, "Laser Aerosmith in 3-D." Tickets: $9. Museum hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 8:45 p.m. Admission (suggested donation): $9.50; students and the elderly, $7.50; children 12 and under, $6; under 2, free. There are also special prices for combination tickets including museum admission and a film or special exhibition. Information: (212) 769-5100; to buy tickets by phone: (212) 769-5200. 

AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, Washington Heights. Tomorrow at 3 p.m., David M. Bullowa Memorial Conference, with Martin Bedkmann, Tiffany J. Grade and Mark Metzler. The society has the most extensive coin collection in North America; its library is open to the public. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays when there is an event taking place. Information: (212) 234-3130.
 
HISPANIC SOCIETY OF AMERICA, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, Washington Heights. "The Palace of Oliva," a reconstruction of Centelles Palace, built more than 500 years ago and since destroyed, in Oliva, Spain, through drawings, studies and photographs, and some surviving decorative elements from the palace. Through Jan. 30. The permanent collection is on view. Saturdays only, 10:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., "Spanish Impressionism and Post-Impressionism," through June 30. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 926-2234.
 
MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE: A LIVING MEMORIAL TO THE HOLOCAUST, 18 First Place, at West Street and Battery Place, Battery Park City. Artifacts, documents, photographs, videos and film clips are included in exhibitions on the Holocaust and on Jewish life before and after World War II. "Yiddish on Stage: Posters and Artifacts From the World of Yiddish Theater" runs through Jan. 23. Sunday, 11 a.m. to noon, in commemoration of Martin Luther King's Birthday, inspirational songs with Matt Jones, who is a singer, songwriter, lecturer and musician. Free with the museum admission. Monday, noon and 2 p.m., "Social Justice Tour," focusing on artifacts that illustrate the Jewish commitment to social justice. Free with museum admission. Other exhibitions include "Jewish Life a Century Ago," with memorabilia from Jewish rituals and celebrations in Europe in the early 1900's; "War Against the Jews," detailing events from 1933 to 1945; and "Jewish Renewal," focusing on life after the Holocaust. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and the eves of Jewish holidays, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.; closed Saturdays. Admission: $7; students and the elderly, $5; 5 and under, free. Tickets can be bought in advance through Ticketmaster, (212) 307-4007, or by calling the museum the day of the visit, (212) 945-0039. Information: (212) 509-6130.
 
MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. "1999 International Emmy-Award Winners," including documentaries, performing arts, drama, news and programming for children. Tuesdays through Sundays at 2 p.m.; through Jan. 23. Tonight: "Dispatches: A Witness to Murder," about the murder of a group of ethnic Albanian men in the Kosovo village of Little Krusha. Tomorrow and Sunday: "Let It Come Down: The Life of Paul Bowles" and "The Phil: Part 3." "Andy's Funhouse: The Andy Kaufman Special," a little-seen 1979 special along with selected segments, including "Saturday Night Live" and David Letterman, today at 7 p.m., tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m.; through Jan. 30. "Super Bowl: Super Showcase for Commercials," today through Sunday, 1 and 4 p.m., through Feb. 13. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., Thursdays until 8 p.m. On Fridays the theater is open until 9 p.m. Admission: $6; students and the elderly, $4; 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 621-6800.
 
SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM AND MARKETPLACE, South and Fulton Streets, Lower Manhattan. In a 19th-century port district with restaurants, shops and bars, the museum has three galleries, a children's crafts center and a boat-building center. "American Tattoo: The Art of Gus Wagner," in the Whitman Gallery, through May. "World Port New York: Celebrating 30 Years of the South Street Seaport Museum" includes maps, ship models, paintings, trade goods and steamship memorabilia; continuing. The ice rink is open daily (through mid-March) at Pier 17; $8 for adults, $6 for children, $5 skate rentals. Museum hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; closed Tuesdays. Stores in the marketplace: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Museum admission: $6; the elderly, $5; students, $4; children 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 748-8600; reservations for special events: (212) 748-8786; the marketplace, (212) 732-7678.
 
Zoos
 
BRONX ZOO, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham. Some 265 wooded acres are devoted to spacious naturalistic habitats, including Jungle World, African Plains, the Baboon Reserve, the World of Birds, the Aitken Sea Bird Colony (with daily penguin feedings at 3:30 p.m., weather permitting) and Big Birds. Congo Gorilla Forest, a six-and-a-half-acre replica of the Central African rain forest, with lowland gorillas, African rock pythons, Wolf's monkeys, bugs, birds and reptiles; open 10 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Tickets: $1. The zoo offers classes for adults and children. Information and registration: (718) 220-6854. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission: $4; the elderly and children 2 to 12, $2; under 2, free; free for everyone on Wednesdays. Parking: $6. Information: (718) 367-1010.
 
CENTRAL PARK ZOO, Fifth Avenue at 64th Street. The zoo has rare tamarin monkeys, polar bears, colobus monkeys, gentoo penguins, chinstrap penguins and red pandas. Also, sea lion feedings at 11:30 a.m. and 2 and 4 p.m., and penguin feedings at 10:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Adult courses are available; course information: (212) 439-6583. Hours, including the Tisch Children's Zoo: daily, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission: $3.50; the elderly, $1.25; children 3 to 12, 50 cents; under 3, free. Admission includes entry to the nearby Tisch Children's Zoo. General information: (212) 861-6030.
 
NEW YORK AQUARIUM, West Eighth Street and the Boardwalk, Coney Island, Brooklyn. Exhibition areas include Sea Cliffs, with sea otters, seals and wave machines; Discovery Cove, a look at the aquatic world with a water tank, photographs, interactive videos and games; the Hudson River; Native Sea Life and the Shark Tank; and an oceanic tank, a touch-a-ray tank and beluga whale pools. Daily feedings of seals, sharks, walruses, dolphins and penguins. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; last ticket sold at 3:45 p.m. Admission: $8.75; the elderly and children 2 to 12, $4.50; under 2, free. Parking: $6. Information: (718) 265-3474.
 
RECREATION
 
FROSTBITE 10-MILER AND 10-MILE RELAY, Central Park. Both tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., starting at the Engineer's Gate, Fifth Avenue and 90th Street. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance fee, $17; $12 for club members; $10 for junior and senior club members. Race-day registration, $22; $15 for club members; $12 for junior and senior members. Information: (212) 860-4455.
 
EVENTS
 
TRIBUTE TO THE REV. DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., Riverside Church, 490 Riverside Drive, at 122nd Street, Manhattan. A performance of spirituals by the Musicians of Melodious Accord, the Riverside Inspirational Choir, the Riverside Chamber Singers and soloists. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. Tickets, $10; $5 for students and the elderly. Reservations: (212) 870-6722.
 
15TH ANNUAL MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. SERMON SERIES, Middle Collegiate Church, Second Avenue at Seventh Street, East Village. With a sermon and a gospel and jazz presentation. Sunday at 11 A.M.
 
"LITERARY READING: JAMES EARL JONES READS AMERICAN SLAVE NARRATIVES," 92nd Street Y, at Lexington Avenue. The actor will read works dating from the mid-1700's to mid-1800's by Nat Turner, Frederick Douglass, William Wells Brown, Henry Bibb, Sojourner Truth and others. Monday at 8 p.m. Tickets, $15. Information: (212) 996-1100.
 
AMERICANA AT THE PIERS, Passenger Ship Terminal, Piers 90 and 92, 12th Avenue, between 50th and 55th Streets, Manhattan. Tomorrow and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Daily admission, $10; free for children under 16. Information: (212) 255-0020.
 
WALKING TOURS
 
"WORLD OF FINANCE WALKING TOUR," covers Lower Manhattan with stops at the New York Stock Exchange, the Museum of American Financial History and the building that housed J. P. Morgan's office. Meets every Friday at 10 a.m. at the Museum of American Financial History, 28 Broadway, at Bowling Green Park. Fee: $15; $10 for students and the elderly. Sponsored by the museum and Heritage Trails New York. Information: (212) 908-4110.
 
"42ND STREET: -- OFF, OFF, OFF BROADWAY," Manhattan. An architectural and historical tour of the eastern half of the street, with stops at the Daily News Building, the Chrysler Building, the Chanin Building and Grand Central Terminal. Meets Fridays at 1 p.m. on the northeast corner of First Avenue and 43rd Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Mainly Manhattan Tours. Information: (212) 755-6199.
 
"JAZZ NIGHTS IN HARLEM." A tour of the area, followed by dinner and a stop at a jazz club. Meets tonight and tomorrow at 7 p.m. on the northeast corner of Lenox Avenue and 125th Street. Cover, $40. Sponsored by Harlem Heritage Tours. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 280-7888.
 
"THE FLATIRON DISTRICT: MADISON SQUARE PARK AND ENVIRONS," Manhattan. An architectural and historical tour that includes statuary. Meets today at 11 a.m. at the northwest corner of Park Avenue South and 23rd Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $10; $8 for students, the elderly and Society members. Reservations and information: (212) 935-3960.
 
"EAST VILLAGE TALES AND TAVERNS." Visits four of the area's historic taverns. Meets tomorrow at 6 p.m. at the Astor Place subway kiosk. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Fee: $10 (does not include cost of refreshments). Information: (212) 969-8262.
 
"WALKS IN OLD CHELSEA." A look at the stately buildings of the area and the stories behind them. Meets Sunday at 2 p.m. in front of the Flatiron Building, Broadway and 23rd Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.
 
"FROM PAGES TO PAVEMENT," Manhattan. Includes locations mentioned in seven novels set in the gaslight era. Meets tomorrow at 2 p.m. at the arch in Washington Square. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.
 
"VIEWS FROM THE PAST," Central Park. Learn about the history of the park, including how sheep, goats and milk shaped the landscape. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the Dairy, midpark at 64th Street. Sponsored by the Central Park Conservancy. Free. Information: (212) 794-6564.
 
"A MATTER OF TASTE: HISTORICAL REVIVALS IN THE GILDED AGE," a look at the influence of 20th-century design on the development of the Upper East Side, with stops at buildings by Stanford White, Ernest Flagg and Francis Kimball. In conjunction with the exhibition "A Century of Design, Part I: 1900-1925," at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. on the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 75th Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15; $12 for Society members. Information: (212) 935-3960.
 
BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, a tour of the grounds with an optional stop in the plant houses, as well as the Prospect Park Zoo and the Brooklyn Museum. Meets Sunday morning at 11 at the token booth at the Prospect Park stop on the D train. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. Garden admission, $4; zoo admission, $3; suggested museum admission, $4; $1.50 for students and the elderly. Information: (718) 998-3793.
 
"BROOKLYN BRIDGE TO BROOKLYN HEIGHTS WALKING SAFARI," a two-hour walk that covers the history of the bridge's construction. Meets Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the fountain in front of City Hall. Fee, $10. Sponsored by City Walking Safaris. Information: (212) 726-2873.
 
"MIDTOWN MANHATTAN IN THE AGE OF MORGAN THE MAGNIFICENT" will focus on the Murray Hill section, an area of old and new money heavily influenced by J. Pierpont Morgan that features buildings by Trowbridge and Livingston, White, McKim, Gilbert Trumbauer and others. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. on the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 34th Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15; $12 for Society members. Information: (212) 935-3960.
 
"AN INSIDER'S VIEW OF THE NEW/OLD GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL," a tour of the reconstruction and renovation with one of the project architects. Sunday at 10 a.m. Sponsored by the 92d Street Y. Fee, $25. Information: (212) 996-1100.
 
HARLEM GOSPEL TOUR. A tour that includes stops at a church and several cultural institutions. Meets on Sunday at 10 a.m. on the southwest corner of Lenox Avenue and 116th Street. Fee: $20. Sponsored by Harlem Heritage Tours. Information: (212) 280-7888.
 
"MARVELOUS MURRAY HILL," Manhattan. Tour the neighborhood with stops at the Church of the Incarnation, the Morgan Library, the Amateur Comedy Club and the former home of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Meets tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. on the northeast corner of 34th Street and Madison Avenue. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.
 
"BEEKMAN PLACE-SUTTON PLACE," Manhattan. The tour stops at River House, the Abigail Adams Smith Museum and the former residences of Irving Berlin, Greta Garbo, Johnny Carson and Robert F. Kennedy. Meets tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. on the northwest corner of 52nd Street and First Avenue. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.
 
"SPLENDID GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL." A tour of the railroad station, which has undergone an extensive renovation. Stops include Vanderbilt Hall, the east staircase and the former site of a newsreel theater. Meets Sunday at noon at the northeast corner of 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Fee: $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.
 
MARTIN LUTHER KING'S BIRTHDAY, a tour of 125th Street with stops at the Apollo Theater, a new shopping plaza and the Harlem State Office Building, with an optional stop for lunch. Meets Monday at 11:30 a.m. on the northeast corner of Lenox Avenue and 125th Street. Fee, $5, plus the cost of lunch. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.
 
"MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. DAY IN HISTORIC HARLEM," a tour emphasizing the history, architecture and residents of the area, with stops at the Abyssinian Baptist Church, Striver's Row and other sites. Meets Monday at 1 p.m. at the northwest corner of Lenox Avenue and 135th Street. Fee, $10; $8 for students and the elderly. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
"CHILD-FRIENDLY RAMBLE: THE AFRICAN AMERICAN EXPERIENCE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE IN DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN" examines the contributions of black Americans to the city's economy in the the 17th and 18th centuries. Meets Monday at 11 a.m. inside Blimpie's, 38 Park Row. Sponsored by Dr. Phil New York Talks and Walks. Fee, $12. Information: (888) 377-4455.
 
BLACK HERITAGE OF DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN, with stops at the African burial ground and the site of a slave market. Meets Monday at 2 p.m. inside Blimpie's, 38 Park Row. Sponsored by Dr. Phil New York Talks and Walks. Fee, $12. Information: (888) 377-4455.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- The actor James Earl Jones will read American slave narratives from the mid-1700's to the mid-1800's at 92nd Street Y. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (58%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); CHILDREN (75%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); BIODIVERSITY (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (64%); POETRY (61%); THEATER COMPANIES (50%); THEATER (50%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



345 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2882 words

HEADLINE: Paris on the Hudson? Mais Oui

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
THE minimum requirement for Le Weekend New Yorkais was about as basic as a crusty baguette.
My French husband and I yearned for a Manhattan with a Gallic accent -- a bistro perhaps where a petit caniche begs for sugar cubes below a polished bar, or a brasserie where the mood is casual, the air is more smoke than oxygen and the frites are served with mustard and the songs of Serge Gainsbourg. 
 We never found the sugar-starved poodle beside the bar. But we did learn how to satisfy the inexplicable urge to listen daily to "La Marseillaise," the French national anthem, courtesy of the French Embassy's Web site.
A weekend search for La Vie a New York is rather like hurtling through a dizzying blur of Metro stops. With such a richness of traditional and unconventional French cultural offerings, a tourist can visit a Museum of Modern Art exhibition of Monet and Cezanne landscapes one day and head the next to Claude Leveque's "Stigmata '99" installation, a disco-inspired staircase of flickering crimson light and mirrors at the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City.
Determined Francophiles can rise at dawn to the latest Radio France Internationale news reports from Paris on 91.5 FM and drift to sleep to the hypnotic drone of 24-hour TV5 satellite programming featuring French shows like "Bouillon de Culture" or "Paris Chic Choc."
But the freshest serenade comes from a modern-day group of French explorers who have come to New York to disseminate the dernier cri in European music, a quirky minimalist electronic style that is sometimes called Le French Touch.
"We've been here for two years and there are so many French people it's getting scary," said Mary-Noelle Dana, an expatriate Parisian and self-described "settler" who organizes periodic showcases for French musicians and disc jockeys at the Knitting Factory in TriBeCa.
"It's the French Touch generation that's moving in," she said. "We're between 20 and 30. I think that without getting spiritual it's a question of energy. There's a huge unemployment problem in France, and the young generation has a hard time in the entertainment industry. And after a while you want to stop waiting and move on."
Nicole Renaud, 32, moved from Paris to New York about 10 years ago and took up the accordion and microphone to perform a mix of retro romance songs ranging from Edith Piaf to the medieval. Wearing hooded form-fitting gowns, she presents what she considers a modern take on cabaret inspired by futuristic films like "Blade Runner" and "The Fifth Element."
Ms. Renaud makes a weekly circuit of small clubs with names like the Torch Club, on the Lower East Side, or La Luncheonette, in Chelsea. On one slow Monday night, her ethereal soprano filled the Torch Club, a warm, uncluttered space with textured walls, soaring ceilings and glowing sconces that is so discreet there is nothing to identify it from the street beyond its metal doors.
"I guess being away from my country I have rediscovered my culture," Ms. Renaud said. "I started the accordion about three years ago. Arriving in New York, the natural thing was to sing French songs, and I felt free to do it: people expected me to sing those songs. The other advantage in being in New York is that there were not many people doing this kind of music, and so it was easier for me to work here. I find that there's a different energy in New York in the sense that people tend to take more risks."
 
'It's Really Burning'
In late November the Knitting Factory organized its second annual French Touch Festival, a regular series supported with seed money from the Cultural Services of the French Embassy in New York that seeks to promote French artists in the United States. P.S. 1 also was a host to French disc jockeys in the summer.
There is a private circuit of clubs that regularly feature Parisian-style dance music, notably Twilo, a cavernous club in Chelsea. Tonight it will present the latest event in a series called "Respect Is Burning." The gatherings, which take place bimonthly (the next is on March 17), are an outgrowth of the "Respect" parties that used to be held regularly in Paris at the Rex Club, a techno night spot next to the opulent Grand Rex Theater on the Right Bank.
"We call it 'Respect Is Burning' because the music would be so crazy that we would say 'it's really burning tonight,' " said Neil Aline, a 23-year-old Parisian expatriate who has settled in the East Village and makes his living as a disc jockey and concert promoter.
Like other fans of Le French Touch music, Mr. Aline stretches for adjectives to characterize the sound, which exports the creme of disc jockeys, programmers and producers working in France. "It's house music with a really funky touch," said Mr. Aline. "It's electronic-sounding but soulful at the same time. The bottom line is that it's house music, but house music that never sounded like this before."
The crowds that come to these events at the Knitting Factory, Twilo or Izzy Bar are a mix of Americans and French expatriates. Performers address the audience in English, but participants respond with cries of "Allez! Allez!"
"People are very curious about electronic music because they don't have as much as we do in Europe," said Adele Jacques, who arrived from Paris a few months ago to sing at clubs like the Knitting Factory or Fez. "The reaction has actually been pretty good. I was very astonished because they don't understand what we're saying, but they like the music."
 
Balzac, par E-Mail
Many of the French cultural events in New York are carefully nurtured by the French government through subsidies and aid from the Cultural Services of the French Embassy, which amounted to about $500,000 last year in the United States.
The French Embassy helped underwrite the Knitting Factory's Le French Touch Festival in November. And it helped bring Mr. Leveque's "Stigmata" to P.S. 1, which is also the site of "On Your Own Time," an international show that includes the work of the painter Roman Opalka. Since 1965 Mr. Opalka has been exploring the passage of time on large canvases painted with numbers. In December the French Ministry of Culture and Globecast France Telecom provided the museum with live transmissions of Mr. Opalka, who apparently has decided to keep counting to infinity.
The French government also supports traditional offerings, like a series of performances next month at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola on Park Avenue by Olivier Latry, the organist for the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. It is also trying in a low-key way to promote French literature in New York by organizing lectures and cocktail parties for visiting authors whose new works have been translated and published in the United States, among them Jean-Paul Kauffmann, author of "Black Room at Longwood," a bittersweet exploration of Napoleon's final years in exile as a prisoner of the British on the island of St. Helena.
For those who prefer their French literature in French, there are stores to satisfy the urge. A traditional choice is the Librairie de France at Rockefeller Center, where basic children's titles can be $20 or more. But it's also possible to buy digital books by e-mail in minutes from Paris, where a new Internet upstart called Zero Heure is publishing classic titles, original works and contemporary books from other French publishers. The Web site -- www.00h00.com -- gives shoppers an easy way to test the purchasing system with invitations to order free books. The electronic books, ranging from about a dollar to $30, are cheaper than conventional books, which can also be ordered from Zero Heure by mail.
 
Le News Flash
The links to Paris do not end with the Internet. Radio France Internationale is on every morning at 6:30 on 91.5 FM, and Le Journal de France 2 -- the daily evening news from Paris -- is broadcast at 7 by WNYE on Channel 25. (The English subtitles occasionally don't match the stories, but it can add to the entertainment when a news anchor announces a breaking story while the subtitles have her warbling 60's song lyrics.) A satellite dish and a $10 subscription fee to TV5 USA will bring you 24 hours of programming from French-speaking countries.
Cable television also offers an assortment of French movies. CUNY-TV on Channel 75, the station operated by the City University of New York, is broadcasting French films with English subtitles on Friday nights at 10 and Sunday afternoons at 3. Among the lesser-known offerings is "La Voie Est Libre," Stephane Clavier's 1998 film about a railroad employee who is laid off from his job after 20 years only to become the main suspect in a strange hostage crisis on a suburban railway.
A French movie is shown several times every Tuesday at the French Institute/Alliance Francaise, which also plans to present a festival of short films from Jan. 24-26 grouped around themes like youth and the bizarre. There is "John," a short tale about a Tarzan who has taken up residence in France, for example, and "Gisele Kerozene," a contemporary story of a group of "proto-punk" witches embarked on a wild search for a magic skull. Vive la difference.
 
The Bistro Look
For newly arrived expatriates, a circuit of informal French bistros offer a fleeting taste of Paris. Some of the French settlers effusively praise little restaurants like Jules in the East Village, which often has live music or accordion brunches, and Casimir, a bar bistro on Avenue B named for a bunny in an old French television series.
Casimir had the appropriate understated bistro look: exposed brick walls, wooden cafe chairs, Charles Aznavour posters, and anise-flavored Ricard served at the bar. My husband and I were less impressed by a gum-chewing waitress who blew bubbles while serving us French fries stacked inelegantly in a tin pail.
So we tried a restaurant recommended by Pierre Buhler, the cultural counselor for the French Embassy on Fifth Avenue. His pick was La Bonne Soupe on West 55th Street in Midtown, a busy restaurant that seems to peak in energy around noon on Sunday and settles down for more leisurely eating by 2:30 p.m.
Jean-Paul Picot, the owner, presides over the red-checked tables from a spot at a small curving wooden bar, his half-glasses dangling from his neck. He has not deserted the French custom of mingling to chat with diners or occasionally offering a free digestif.
La Bonne Soupe is the kind of place that attracts French Embassy employees and the occasional Parisian celebrity. On the Sunday we were there, the French television personality and actress Sophie Favier attracted little attention when she took a table next to us with her mother, 4-year-old daughter and a photographer who was trailing her for Agence France-Presse.
But we found our true refuge -- sans poodle, helas -- when we stumbled into Chez Bernard at West Broadway and Broome Street in SoHo, a bistro with exposed brick walls, an old wine press transformed into a lamp and wine bottles numbering in the thousands.
It passed the test when my husband and his visiting brother ordered the charcuterie and settled into a kind of French reverie that is difficult to spell: mmmm-mmmm-mmmm.
 
La Vie a New York
 
Here is a sampling of French experiences in New York City:
 
Events
 
"EDITH PIAF: HER STORY . . . HER SONGS," Carnegie Hall. Raquel Bitton sings songs of Edith Piaf. Tomorrow at 8 P.M. Tickets: $17 to $75. CarnegieCharge: (212) 247-7800.
 
CINE-CLUB, French Institute/Alliance Francaise, 22 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100. Weekly screenings of French films (with English subtitles) are on Tuesdays at 12:30, 3:30, 6:30 and 9 p.m. Next week the film will be Claude Berri's "Lucie Aubrac" (1997) with Carole Bouquet and Daniel Auteuil. Tickets: $7; $5.50, students; free to members.
 
EARLY MUSIC, Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street, Manhattan, (212) 717-9246. Christophe Rousset will conduct the New York-based ensemble New York Collegium in a program of French music, with three French singers, Isabelle Poulenart, Karina Gauvin and Jerome Correas. Jan. 24 at 8 p.m. Admission: $20 and $30; 15 percent discount for students and the elderly.
 
CHOCOLATE AND COGNAC, French Institute/Alliance Francaise, 22 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100. On Feb. 3 at 6:30 p.m. Richart Design et Chocolat shares its sweets and Marie Brizard Wine and Spirits provides a tasting of four Gautier cognacs. Fee: $55; $45 for members.
 
ORGAN CONCERTS, Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue at 84th Street, (212) 288-2520. Olivier Latry, organist for the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris, offers the works of Messiaen in six performances. At 8 p.m. on Feb. 11, 15, 17, 22, 24 and 29. Admission: $20 ($15 for students and the elderly) or $70 for all six concerts.
 
Radio and TV
 
RADIO FRANCE INTERNATIONALE, WNYE 91.5 FM. Weekdays from 6:30 to 7:10 a.m., 10 p.m. to 1 a.m., and weekends from 6:30 to 9 a.m., 11 p.m. to 1 a.m.
 
LE JOURNAL DE FRANCE 2, WNYE, Channel 25. The evening news from France, with English subtitles, is broadcast from 7 to 7:30 p.m.
 
CUNY-TV FRENCH FILM FESTIVAL, cable, Channel 75 in New York City. Fridays at 10 p.m. and Sundays at 3 p.m. through Feb. 6. The films, with English subtitles include "La Voie Est Libre" (tonight and Sunday), "Adieu Poulet" and "Peau Neuve."
 
TV5 USA, (888) 902-5322; www.tv5.org/usa. The 24-hour satellite television programming featuring news and films from France, Belgium, Switzerland, Quebec and French-speaking nations in Africa. Fees are about $10 a month.
 
Music
 
TORCH CLUB, 137 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 228-5151. On Mondays at 8 p.m. the soprano Nicole Renaud sings classic and medieval French songs. No cover or minimum.
 
IZZY BAR, 166 First Avenue, at 10th Street, East Village, (212) 228-0444. Recorded music played by Ugo on Sundays at 10 p.m. and on alternate Tuesdays at 10 p.m. by Neil Aline.
 
KNITTING FACTORY, 74 Leonard Street, Old Office Space, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. Jan. 16 at 8 p.m., Jean-Michel Pilc, a pianist; admission, $7. Feb. 1 at 8 p.m., a performance by Jean-Francois Pauvros and Little Water; admission, $8.
 
MERCURY LOUNGE, 217 East Houston, at Ludlow Street, (212) 260-4700. The French singer Adele Jacques will perform Feb. 24 at 9:30 p.m. Admission: $8 to $10. Part of "Wild Colonial Big Night Out."
 
TWILO, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 268-1600. "Respect Is Burning," featuring French electronic music and D.J.'s, take place every other month. There is a performance tonight at 11 p.m., with the D.J.'s Shantel at 10 p.m., the headliner Richard Dorfmeister at midnight), Kevin Yost at 3 a.m. and Adam Scott at 5 a.m. Admission: $25.
 
LA LUNCHEONETTE, 130 10th Avenue, at 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 675-0342. A bistro whose musical performers include the singer Nicole Renaud, from 7 to 10 p.m. Sundays.
 
Books
 
ZERO HEURE, www.00h00.com. A new electronic publisher in Paris that e-mails books electronically in seconds. The books include classic literature, popular French books and original works published by Zero Heure, which is headed by the former managing director of the French publisher Flammarion. Books in traditional form can also be ordered, at a higher cost.
 
LIBRAIRIE DE FRANCE, Rockefeller Center, 610 Fifth Avenue, near 50th Street, (212)581-8810.
 
Museums
 
P.S. I CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER, 22-25 Jackson Avenue at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. "On Your Own Time" by Roman Opalka (though Jan. 30) and Claude Leveque's longterm light installation "Stigmata '99." Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.. Admission: $5.
 
MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400. Its "Modern Starts: Places" exhibition includes "Changing Visions: French Landscapes 1880-1920," with works by Cezanne, van Gogh, Signac and Seurat, among others. Through March 14. Also on view is Monet's epic "Water Lilies." Hours: Saturdays through Tuesdays and on Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8:15 p.m. Admission: $10; $6.50 for students and the elderly.
 
FRENCH INSTITUTE/ALLIANCE FRANCAISE, 22 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100. "American Writers in Paris," a selection of 50 black-and-white photographs by Sophie Bassouls. Opens today and runs through Feb. 18. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Free.
 
Restaurants
 
LA BONNE SOUPE, 48 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-7650.
 
CHEZ BERNARD, 323 West Broadway, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 343-2583.
 
JULES, 65 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 477-5560.
 
CASIMIR, 103-105 Avenue B, between Sixth and Seventh Streets, East Village, (212) 358-9683.
 
Adventure
 
FRENCH FOREIGN LEGION, www.info-france-usa.org/america/embassy/legion/ legion.htm. The French Embassy Web site regularly lists cultural events in the United States, but its most popular page offers information about enlistment in the French Foreign Legion. (Must be between the age of 17 and 40, but knowledge of the French language is not necessary.)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sounds of Paris in New York: A French Touch singer, Adele Jacques, at the Knitting Factory and, inset, Nicole Renaud, who sings at the Torch Club. Right: The French news on Channel 25. (Richard Perry/The New York Times above ; Iris Brosch inset ; Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times below )(pg. E1); Clockwise from top left: The French TV personality Sophie Favier, center, with Jean-Paul Picot, owner of La Bonne Soupe, and Cecile Girard; a Cezanne landscape at the Modern and a scene in the French film "Lucie Aubrac." (P. Siccoli/Angeli/ReflexNews above left ; Museum of Modern Art above ; Etienne George/October Films left )(pg. E39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RADIO-FRANCE-INTERNATIONALE (RFI) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; NEW YORK CITY; FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; RESTAURANTS; FRENCH LANGUAGE; RADIO; TELEVISION; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; MUSIC VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (55%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN NEIL ALINE (55%); NICOLE RENAUD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



346 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Economics of Drug War

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The Clinton administration's $1.3 billion aid package to fight narcotics in Colombia, much of which will be spent on military training and equipment, will not outweigh the market forces of supply and demand for drugs (news article, Jan. 12). 
 For this program to succeed, the poorly equipped Colombian Army would have to retake an area the size of Switzerland controlled by mobile and well-financed guerrillas. Even with major United States aid, the Colombian Army stands little chance of dislodging the guerrillas and bringing drug production under control. Congress and the president should instead consider focusing on reducing demand at home. A drop in the price of drugs caused by lower demand would do more to hurt the rebel cause than financing a weak and corrupt army.
ROBERT KNAKE
New London, Conn., Jan. 12, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COLOMBIAN ARMY (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLOMBIAN ARMY (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); MILITARY TRAINING (88%); DEFENSE SPENDING (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); DRUG PRICES (56%); 

PERSON: KNAKE, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



347 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE DOLLAR RISES. The dollar gained on evidence that the economy was growing without a pickup in inflation. In New York, the dollar settled at 106.13 yen, up from 105.98; the euro traded at $1.0254, down from $1.0311.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



348 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

ASIA
 
INDIA: EX-STATE CHIEF CLEARED
Jayalalitha Jayaram, the former actress and onetime chief minister of the state of Tamil Nadu, won an important victory in a criminal case when charges against her in a reportedly crooked land deal were dropped. The same state court also upheld an earlier ruling that absolved her of guilt in a reported coal-importing scam. Two other charges against her are still pending. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
MALAYSIA: CRACKDOWN CONTINUES
The government extended a crackdown on opposition figures, arresting another top political leader and charging two people with sedition. The latest arrest, the fifth since Wednesday, was that of Mohamed Ezam Mohamed Nor, left, a senior leader of the National Justice Party, which supports the jailed politician Anwar Ibrahim. Mr. Mohamed Ezam said he was being charged under the Official Secrets Act. (AP) 

SOUTH KOREA: CABINET SHAKE-UP
In a move aimed at demonstrating its will to step up economic reforms, the government appointed a leading industrialist, Park Tae Joon, as prime minister, and the country's corporate restructuring chief, Lee Hun Jai, as finance minister. The changes were among a shuffle of nine ministerial posts ahead of parliamentary elections in April. Samuel Len (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ECUADOR: DEFENSE AIDE QUITS
Minister of Defense Jose Gallardo has unexpectedly resigned in the midst of the most serious political crisis since President Jamil Mahuad took office in 1998. Mr. Gallardo, a retired army general, had been instrumental in ensuring that the armed forces remained loyal to Mr. Mahuad, and had been expected to stay on after the president demanded that his cabinet step down. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
COLOMBIA: MURDER SUSPECT HELD
The police announced the arrest of a man they say took part in the murder of Jaime Garzon, Colombia's most popular comedian. Juan Pablo Ortiz, described as a professional hit man, was captured in Medellin, but authorities have not said whether he has indicated who ordered the killing of Mr. Garzon, a member of a government commission who sometimes helped gain the release of hostages seized by left-wing rebels. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL, LEBANON: PRISONERS FREED Israel and the militia it supports in southern Lebanon released 27 prisoners, apparently in a deal to gain information on Ron Arad, a missing Israeli airman whose plane crashed over Lebanon in 1986. Two Lebanese guerrillas from Hezbollah were freed from a jail in Israel, and 25 inmates were released from the Khiam prison in the Israeli-held zone of southern Lebanon. Joel Greenberg (NYT)
 
IRAQ: NORTHERN ZONE HIT
American jets bombed an Iraqi air defense system after Iraqi artillery fired at the planes as they patrolled the no-flight zone north of Baghdad, the United States military said. The official Iraqi News Agency said civilian and residential areas were targeted, which the allies denied. The agency also said American and British jets flew over southern Iraq, but reported no clashes. (AP)
 
EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: PUTIN MAKES IT OFFICIAL
As Acting President Vladimir V. Putin formally announced his candidacy for president, his principal rival, Yevgeny M. Primakov, was reported to have told a meeting of parliamentary leaders that he would drop out of the race, preferring to run for speaker of the lower house of Parliament. Political analysts said that would markedly improve Mr. Putin's chance of winning a majority in the March 26 vote, avoiding a runoff. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
GERMANY: SOFTWARE PIRATES HELD
German and Danish police officers arrested members of what they described as a major software-piracy gang, seizing more than 100,000 CD-ROM's loaded with illegally duplicated programs ranging from Windows 98 to computer games. The group, which called itself Akira, had been selling the software at bargain prices over the Internet since late 1998. Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)
 
CROATIA: EX-TUDJMAN AIDE QUITS
Foreign Minister Mate Granic has quit all posts in the late Franjo Tudjman's nationalist party, a move dismissed by his opponents as a stunt to revive his campaign for the Jan. 24 presidential vote, in which he has slipped to third in opinion polls. The interim president, Vlatko Pavletic, said Ivica Racan will be appointed prime minister and asked to form a new government on Jan. 22. (Reuters, AP)
 
TURKEY: FIERY PROTEST
Three relatives of soldiers killed fighting Kurdish rebels set themselves on fire at a cemetery in Ankara. The three -- two men and a woman -- were protesting the government's decision to postpone hanging the condemned Kurdish guerrilla leader Abdullah Ocalan. Onlookers doused the flames, and the victims were taken to a hospital. Stephen Kinzer (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: SECURITY ALERT
Security around some courthouses has been tightened after a pipe bomb exploded outside a court building during a bail hearing for two members of a vigilante group that police investigators suspect is involved in a string of bombings in Cape Town and the surrounding area. A 25-year-old man sustained second-degree burns in the blast, which occurred in Wynberg, near Cape Town, while the two men were in court on charges unrelated to the bombings. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
ALGERIA: SURRENDER DEAL
A leader of one of Algeria's two radical Muslim groups was negotiating his surrender as the army appeared willing to extend an ultimatum for an all-out attack. Politicians said Hassan Hattab, head of Appeal and Struggle, was eager to secure a blanket amnesty similar to one given to the Islamic Salvation Army. (Reuters)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); INDIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); LEBANON (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); SOUTH INDIA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (68%); 

COMPANY: IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); INDIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); LEBANON (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); SOUTH INDIA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARRESTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); PRISONS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ARMIES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (67%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (66%); HEZBOLLAH (65%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (65%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); MURDER (57%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR V PUTIN (57%); JAMIL MAHUAD (56%); JOSE GALLARDO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



349 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Pace of '99 Retail Sales Fastest in 15 Years

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13

 BODY:
Retail sales in 1999 surged at the fastest pace since 1984 and producer prices outside of food and energy rose at less than half the rate in the previous year, government figures showed today.
Retail sales in December rose 1.2 percent, led by purchases of clothing, cars and computers, topping November's 1.1 percent gain, the Commerce Department said. The 8.9 percent rise for the year was the largest since a 10 percent gain 15 years earlier. 
 That strength has not fueled inflation, separate Labor Department figures showed. While the Producer Price Index rose 0.3 percent last month, the core rate, which excludes food and energy costs, rose just 0.1 percent. And the core rate's yearly increase of 0.9 percent was down from the 2.5 percent rise in 1998.
"There's no evidence inflation is beginning to heat up," said David Orr, chief economist at the First Union Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. That suggests Federal Reserve policy makers will not raise interest rates by more than a quarter of a percentage point when they next meet in early February, he said. "The real economy does need to slow down, but they've got time."
In another report today, the Labor Department said first-time claims for state unemployment benefits were unchanged at a seasonally adjusted 309,000 last week. The four-week moving average for jobless claims rose to 294,000 from 283,000, suggesting jobs remain plentiful.
Concerns about Year 2000 computer problems probably gave an extra lift to retail sales last month, analysts said. A 2 percent rise in food store sales, for example, was the largest monthly increase since May 1991.
Drugstore sales also rose 1.7 percent, and service-station sales increased 2.5 percent, "well above historical trend," said Joel Kent, an economist at Lehman Brothers in New York. "This makes sense if you think people stocked up on food, refilled drug prescriptions and topped off their gas tanks."
The retail sales report also does not take into account the growing effect of business over the Internet, so "sales are probably understated somewhat," said Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in New York. "Brick and mortar companies would report their total sales, but an eToys, say, wouldn't be captured."
Private estimates for holiday season Internet sales vary widely. Forrester Research estimated last week that Internet retail sales in November and December could reach $5 billion. A study by the Boston Consulting Group and Shop.org, a trade group in Silver Spring, Md., estimated that online holiday sales more than tripled, to about $10 billion in 1999 compared with results in 1998.
The best holiday shopping season in seven years meant that consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the economy's total output, probably accelerated in last year's fourth quarter, according to Ray Stone, an economist at Stone & McCarthy Associates in Princeton, N.J. He estimates consumption rose at an annual rate of as much as 5.5 percent in October, November and December, up from a 4.9 percent pace in the preceding quarter.
For all of 1999, the Producer Price Index rose 3 percent after showing no change in 1998 and falling 1.2 percent in 1997, the Labor Department said. Last year's increase was the largest gain since 1990, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait caused oil prices to soar. Crude oil prices as measured by the index rose 176 percent last year.
The government will release its report on consumer prices in December on Friday. The Consumer Price Index probably rose 0.3 percent, after increasing 0.1 percent the month before, and the core rate probably gained 0.2 percent, the same as in November, according to analysts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs show producer prices from Jan. 1998-Dec. 1999 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) and retail sales (in billions) from Jan. 1998-Dec. 1999 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (69%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; SALES; LABOR PRODUCER PRICES (94%); RETAIL SALES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (79%); GAS STATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



350 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
An Impatient BP Amoco Tells F.T.C. to Decide on Its Deal

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
Frustrated with its discussions with the Federal Trade Commission about its plans to acquire Atlantic Richfield, BP Amoco took steps yesterday to force the agency to either approve the deal or go to court.
The action by the London-based oil giant, which said it would invoke its right to set a 20-day deadline for the F.T.C. to challenge the deal, makes clear that the two sides are still far from agreement about what the oil companies must do to satisfy regulators. The sticking point is whether the acquisition will hurt competition or lead to higher gasoline prices, particularly on the West Coast. 
 Barring a breakthrough, it also means the F.T.C. is likely to go to federal court in the next few weeks to block the $31 billion deal. Should that happen, it would be the largest merger ever challenged by federal antitrust regulators.
There remains a slim chance of a settlement before that happens, people close to the negotiations said, and lawyers from both sides are expected to meet today. But historically, the government does not negotiate with companies once they invoke the 20-day clock -- a deadline that BP Amoco could lift, if it chooses.
Wall Street, which has expressed doubts that the deal can be completed, viewed BP Amoco's statement as a reaffirmation of its commitment to the merger. Shares of BP Amoco's American depository receipts rose 81.25 cents, to $57.375, yesterday. The terms of the merger value each ARCO share at 1.64 shares of BP Amoco -- or about $94, based on yesterday's close.
Shares of ARCO, based in Los Angeles, rose $2, to $79 -- still far short of the merger valuation, making it clear that many investors remain skeptical the acquisition will close.
Last year, F.T.C. staff members urged that the merger be blocked -- a recommendation that analysts who follow the agency say would have been made only if the staff members believed it would have the support of Robert Pitofsky, the F.T.C. chairman.
Mr. Pitofsky has not commented on this deal, but he has previously expressed concerns that the oil industry has become too heavily concentrated in recent years, after a spate of mergers and joint marketing agreements.
The dispute about BP Amoco's deal for ARCO focuses on the effect the merger will have in California and other Western states. California, in particular, already has much higher gas prices than other parts of the country. In November, Bill Lockyer, the state's attorney general, reported that Californians paid an average of 26 cents more for a gallon of gas in the first eight months of 1999 than other Americans.
Critics of the deal say they fear the acquisition will drive gasoline prices even higher. They contend that since BP Amoco and ARCO, combined, own the bulk of the oil produced from Alaska's North Slope, and since the West Coast gets much of its gasoline from Alaska, the merged company would have too much control over Alaskan oil. They also note that ARCO has traditionally been a low-priced competitor in California, and they contend that such positioning would end if it is acquired.
But the companies, which believe they have a strong case should the F.T.C. take them to court, contend that West Coast prices are set by the world oil markets, not by Alaskan production -- an opinion shared by several analysts.
Supporters of the deal also say that the higher California prices are primarily caused by taxes, a requirement for special clean gasoline, and other factors. They further note that BP Amoco has agreed to cut its share of North Slope oil from about 70 percent to 55 percent by divesting 175,000 barrels of daily oil production.
In a statement yesterday, BP Amoco said it "remains ready to pursue a constructive solution." But the company also said it firmly believed "the combination would enlarge rather than adversely affect competition," and that it had "offered, but failed to get F.T.C. acceptance for, a range of measures designed to meet the F.T.C.'s expressed concerns."
One proposal that had been offered, the company said, would be to allocate an additional 210,000 barrels of daily production to third-party buyers under long-term contracts.
F.T.C. officials had no comment yesterday about BP Amoco's announcement.
In recent weeks the agency has been lobbied heavily on the matter. Alaskan officials, including the governor, Tony Knowles, now favor the deal, after BP Amoco agreed to divest part of its daily production and to make other concessions. Mr. Knowles, a Democrat, has pressed the F.T.C. to approve the acquisition; otherwise, he has said, further delay will hurt the Alaskan economy.
But others, including a number of state officials in California and Oregon, remain concerned that gas prices will rise unless far more substantial steps are taken.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BP AMOCO PLC; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION BP PLC (92%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BP AMOCO PLC; ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SUITS AND LITIGATION MERGERS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (63%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



351 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Rates Higher

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON,Jan. 13

 BODY:
Mortgage rates hit their highest level since April 1997 this week amid fears that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates next month. The average interest rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages climbed to 8.18 percent this week, up from 8.15 percent last week, according to a weekly survey released today by Freddie Mac, the mortgage company. Fifteen-year mortgages averaged 7.78 percent, up from 7.73 percent last week. One-year adjustable-rate mortgages were at 6.61 percent, up from 6.60 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); MORTGAGE LOANS (94%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



352 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor's Political Rendering

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's State of the City speech yesterday was in part a summation of his now-familiar list of successes over the last six years. Mr. Giuliani sought to define and secure his legacy in what "could be my last" such annual accounting at New York's City Hall. But it was also a highly political campaign speech for his Senate race against the first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton. The mayor burnished his tax-cutting credentials by agreeing to push for some $2 billion in business and income tax reductions to spur economic growth. And he sought to distance himself from the city's school crisis with proposals on privatization, vouchers and tenure that might score points with the Republicans' core constituencies but would cause more harm in the schools than good.
With education stirring new passions nationwide, the mayor showed his own intense feelings on the issue, heatedly complaining at one point about the city's failure to educate vast numbers of students each year. He called for an end to teacher tenure, accusing the teachers' union, which supports Mrs. Clinton, of caring more about job protection than schoolchildren. His proposal could earn support, but such a plan might hamper the city's nationwide recruiting program at a time when the system faces a devastating shortage of teachers. 
 The mayor also thumped for vouchers, a plan that wins support from conservatives but serves only a few needs in a vastly needy system like New York City's. A fight over the voucher issue has already destabilized the school system once, and to reintroduce it now, with new interim and permanent chancellors not even in place, is needlessly provocative. Just as destabilizing is the mayor's suggestion that private companies be used to conduct summer school classes, which will have to serve 300,000 or more children who need help this summer. Privatization would introduce a needless complication into a task that has to be organized quickly by the new interim chancellor.
The mayor even announced plans to sell the city's big old school administration building as a way to shrink the school bureaucracy, a proposal that smacks more of posturing than of any serious effort to reform school administration.
Scorched by his latest policy of arresting the homeless, the mayor tried once again to explain the complexity of treating a population that includes not only criminals but also the needy and the mentally ill. Mr. Giuliani promised to help convert the many shelters now run by private or religious groups into "New Start Centers" to give the homeless the various levels of help needed. A new name, however, must come with the resolve to back these groups with the funds to fulfill such a mandate.
Finally, the mayor outlined tax cuts on commercial rents and hotel occupancy, plus an income tax credit proposal that would have widespread appeal. The plan must be weighed against future budget gaps to be fully evaluated when a budget plan is released later this month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ;SENATE (US); BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: ;SENATE (US); BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; STATE OF THE CITY MESSAGE (NYC); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SHORTAGES; VOUCHERS; TENURE; ELECTIONS; VOUCHERS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; MAYORS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); CITIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); ACADEMIC TENURE (74%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (67%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (55%); RELIGION (50%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



353 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Inflation Data Lifts Blue Chips And Nasdaq

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday after a report of modest inflation bolstered the bond market and calmed jittery stock investors. Financial shares led the Dow Jones industrial average to a closing record.
The Dow rose 31.33, to close at 11,582.43, just above its previous record of 11,572.20. 
 Broader stock indicators also closed higher. The Nasdaq composite index broke out of a two-day slump to finish up 107.19, or 2.8 percent, at 3,957.21. The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 17.43, to 1,449.68.
Stocks rose after the Labor Department said inflation remained largely under control in 1999. The department's Producer Price Index, which measures inflation at the wholesale level, rose 3 percent in 1999.
The report bolstered investors' confidence that inflation was not escalating enough to merit sharp increases in interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
"The Fed is not behind the curve on inflation," said David Orr, chief economist at First Union Securities Inc. While most analysts remain convinced that the Fed will raise rates by a quarter percentage point at its next meeting on Feb. 1 and 2, yesterday's report suggested the Fed would not increase rates beyond that amount, Mr. Orr said.
Long-term interest rates also were down slightly, benefiting bank and brokerage stocks that often suffer when rates are rising. J. P. Morgan rose 3 3/16, to 122 13/16 and Chase Manhattan was up 1 1/16, to 71 5/16.
Merger activity also enlivened the sector. U.S. Trust, an investment firm that caters to wealthy clients, soared 54 1/8, to 133, after agreeing to be acquired by Charles Schwab for $2.7 billion, or about $129 a share.
The latest development in the consolidating drug industry ignited buying. Warner-Lambert said it would hold merger talks with its hostile suitor Pfizer, abandoning its November decision to be acquired by American Home Products.
Shares of all three companies rose. Warner-Lambert gained 5 1/8, to 91 15/16, Pfizer rose 1 15/16, to 37, and American Home Products rose 7/16, to 42 5/8.
Technology stocks reversed two days of steep losses. Apple Computer rose 9 9/16, to 96 3/4, after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter raised its rating on the stock. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 3-to-2 margin on the Big Board, where volume totaled 1.02 billion shares, compared with 968.78 million in the previous session.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (82%); PFE (NYSE) (82%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (82%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (69%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); MERGERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: DAVID ORR (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



354 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Safir Says Police Bonuses Could Curb Mass Exodus

BYLINE: By KEVIN FLYNN 

 BODY:
Police Commissioner Howard Safir said yesterday that the city, facing a possible mass exodus of seasoned police officers eligible for retirement, should consider awarding bonuses or other incentives to those who agree to stay on.
Over the next five years, the number of officers who reach 20 years of service and eligibility for retirement with full benefits will rise significantly, according to police statistics. It is possible that many of them will leave their high-stress jobs, take their lucrative pensions and look for employment in the private sector. 
 Although only 1,500 officers in the 40,000-member force are eligible to retire this year, by 2004 the number will climb to almost 11,000, or more than one in four.
The retirement number is already beginning to climb, police officials said, with 888 officers retiring last year, compared with 617 in 1998.
Officials said they were concerned because the potential retirement surge was occurring just as a booming economy was making it more difficult to attract candidates for police and other civil service jobs. But Mr. Safir said he thought that the problem, which was reported in The Daily News yesterday, could be remedied with several creative solutions.
Some cities, he said, allow police officers to begin earning pension stipends even while collecting their regular salaries, and award them a lump sum several years later when they actually retire. Others, he said, award a form of signing bonus to veterans who agree to stay on past their eligible retirement date.
"I think we have to explore all of those possibilities," Mr. Safir said, "and we have to decide what's best for the police officer and what's fiscally responsible for the city."
But police union officials said that the city must also confront the fact that many officers are leaving not because of outside economic lures, but because they are fed up with pressures within the department. The union officials said that in addition to unsatisfactory pay, many officers are frustrated by what they characterize as the strain of having to produce ever more glowing rates of crime reduction.
"There is constant pressure from the top to the bottom for performance, performance and performance, an insistence on increases in summonses, an insistence on the number of arrests and a constant change of tours that many cops are tired of," said Thomas Scotto, president of the Detectives Endowment Association.
Mr. Safir, who has said he does not believe police morale is sagging, said he hoped to discuss possible solutions for the problem with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in the near future.
The issue has arisen now because of an unusual surge in the number of people about to become eligible to leave the force. From 1995 to last November, only three officers in the department became eligible for retirement, because two decades ago, during the city's fiscal crisis, only a few officers were hired.
But starting last year, 410 officers -- the first class hired 20 years ago as the city ended its hiring freeze -- became eligible for retirement. Next year 1,511 more officers will become eligible, and 2,083 officers the year after that. If only some of them actually retire, the number leaving the force would grow by hundreds.
For many officers, the decision to leave is simple economics. With overtime and other additions, the average police officer at retirement age earns about $60,000, according to police personnel officials. Yet after taxes, union dues and pension contributions are deducted, an officer often takes home just a bit more than 50 percent of his salary.
On the other hand, with a pension that pays 50 percent of their salary, a supplemental pension payout that provides $8,000 a year and a reduced tax bill, officers often find they can nearly match their working salary by leaving the force. And if they get another job, retirement becomes an economic boon.
"The one thing that keeps cops on the job is a financial incentive," said Patrick Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. "The salary we are getting now is not enough to keep our families and keep our homes. If we would give them a decent, livable wage, that would be incentive for police officers to stay on the job." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; BONUSES; RETIREMENT POLICE FORCES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (79%); CRIME RATES (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); WORKPLACE STRESS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); 

PERSON: FLYNN, KEVIN; SAFIR, HOWARD (COMR) RUDY GIULIANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



355 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman Discusses the 'Limits' to theEconomy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned last night that there were limits to how long the economy could continue barreling along without igniting inflation, and appeared to confirm the assumption on Wall Street that the central bank will raise interest rates next month.
In a speech at the New York Hilton that investors hoped would offer some guidance about how aggressively the Fed would act to tamp down inflationary pressures this year, Mr. Greenspan stressed that not even the sweeping transformation wrought by technology has freed the economy from the laws of supply and demand. In his veiled way, he left little doubt that he is leaning toward a tighter monetary policy. 
 Yet Mr. Greenspan also emphasized that the process of reining in the economy through higher interest rates is already "well advanced," a phrase that will no doubt reduce fears in the markets that the Fed is committed to a series of rate increases this year.
In assessing current economic conditions, his focus, as it has been for months, was on the possibility that the country could run short of workers, which would push up wages and then prices in an inflationary spiral that could derail the long expansion.
Fueled by the stock market boom, demand for goods and services is outstripping supply in the domestic economy, said Mr. Greenspan, who was nominated earlier this month by President Clinton to a fourth term as Fed chairman.
"It is this imbalance between growth of supply and growth of demand that contains the seeds of rising inflationary and financial pressures that could undermine the current expansion," Mr. Greenspan said in an address to the Economic Club of New York.
So far there is little evidence that inflation is taking root. A government report yesterday, for example, showed that prices on the producer level remained well contained. But another set of statistics yesterday showed that retail sales last month were stronger than expected, further evidence that the economy roared into the new year at a speed that most economists, especially those at the Fed, think is unsustainable over the long run.
Investors and many economists now assume the Fed will raise its short-term Federal funds target rate by at least a quarter of a percentage point at its next policy meeting on Feb. 1 and 2. The Fed raised the rate three times last year in quarter-point increments, to 5.5 percent.
The economy has responded to the strains on it so far, Mr. Greenspan said, by importing more goods from abroad, luring workers from other countries, and most of all by digging ever deeper into the pool of available labor in the United States, where the unemployment rate has been 4.1 percent for the last three months, a 30-year low.
"The bottom line, however, is that while immigration and imports can significantly cushion the consequences of the wealth effect and its draining of the pool of unemployed workers for a while, there are limits," Mr. Greenspan said. "Admittedly, we are groping to infer where those limits may be. But that there are limits cannot be open to question."
Mr. Greenspan also used the speech to call for fiscal discipline on the part of Congress and the Clinton administration as they prepare to battle again over how to use the growing federal budget surplus. And while acknowledging that globalization and technology have hurt some workers, he defended free trade and unfettered competition as powerful forces for improving standards of living.
But much of his speech was a long rumination on the degree to which technology-driven changes have fundamentally altered the economy. The answer, he said, might be much clearer in another decade.
"We may conceivably conclude from that vantage point that, at the turn of the millennium, the American economy was experiencing a once-in-a-century acceleration of innovation, which propelled forward productivity, output, corporate profits and stock prices at a pace not seen in generations, if ever," he said.
"Alternatively, that 2010 retrospective might well conclude that a good deal of what we are currently experiencing was just one of the many euphoric speculative bubbles that have dotted human history," Mr. Greenspan said. "And of course we cannot rule out that we may look back and conclude that elements from both scenarios have been in play in recent years."
Indeed, while Mr. Greenspan clearly marveled in his address at the power of technology to make business more efficient and the economy more productive, he was careful to bring the discussion repeatedly back to the issue of limits, a word he used repeatedly. He said the Fed did not have the luxury of awaiting the outcome of the debate about the new economy before deciding whether to act now to rein in inflation.
He repeated his longstanding skepticism of the value of the traditional models that seek to predict how inflation will pick up as unemployment falls in a fast-growing economy.
But he said that "there has to be a limit to how far the pool of available labor can be drawn down" before wage gains begin to outstrip increases in productivity, or the hourly output of each worker. Once wages start rising faster than productivity, companies face a choice between raising prices, which would be inflationary, or accepting narrower profit margins, which Mr. Greenspan said would be a recipe for recession.
"Thus, if our objective of maximum sustainable growth is to be achieved, the pool of available workers cannot shrink indefinitely," Mr. Greenspan said.
But Mr. Greenspan said that tighter financial conditions were already trickling down through the economy. He noted that interest rates on corporate debt had risen by a full percentage point since late 1997. The rise in rates, he said, was "supported by a central bank intent on defusing the imbalances that would undermine the expansion."

 
 
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); RETAIL SALES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



356 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Returning 84,000 Acres to Indians

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, Jan. 13

 BODY:
In the largest return of public land to American Indians in the continental United States in more than 100 years, the federal government is giving back 84,000 acres in northern Utah that it took from the Utes in 1916 to secure the rights to oil shale reserves.
"We consider this part of the Clinton-Gore environmental legacy," Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said in an interview today, reflecting the anticipated benefits of the arrangement for President Clinton, as well as for Vice President Al Gore in his quest for the presidency. "We're trying to do the right thing, returning land to its rightful owners." 
 The land transfer is part of a deal Administration officials have been negotiating with tribal leaders for almost seven years, and a major component of the deal will help solve a long-standing pollution problem in another part of the state.
Mr. Richardson, who plans to announce the deal on Friday at the tribe's headquarters in Fort Duchesne, Utah, said the Utes would be required to contribute a small percentage of any profits they derived from oil and natural gas production to the cleanup of a long-abandoned uranium site 80 miles south of their reservation.
Government officials say more than 10 tons of low-level radioactive waste have sat for decades close to the Arches and Canyonlands National Parks, leaching toxic material into the Colorado River, which supplies drinking water to California and other Western states. Cleanup is expected to cost as much as $300 million, and Congress is considering a bill that would pay for the bulk of the work.
"We want to show that the Energy Department can clean up problems, rather than continue to create them," Mr. Richardson said.
As a third component of the deal, the Utes have agreed to allow a strip along 75 miles of the east bank of the Green River, which borders their reservation, to be designated as wild and scenic, a status that affords it protections it currently lacks.
Unlike other recent administration land initiatives, including the designation this week of three new national monuments, the land transfer has won support from many Western Republican lawmakers.
Representative Christopher B. Cannon, a Republican whose district includes the land and adjacent reservation, said: "This is the opposite of the abusive things this administration has done. They recognized common problems and dealt with them."
O. Roland McCook Sr., chairman of the tribe's governing body, said he was delighted that land originally ceded to the Utes in 1882 was being returned.
"The tribe will once again be the true owner of its traditional lands," Mr. McCook said, adding that the Utes "can actively protect and steward an area the membership's ancestors rightfully believed would be a part of their descendants' heritage and homeland."
Environmental groups in Utah were more measured in endorsing the deal. While applauding any effort to clean up the uranium site, officials from several organizations said they wanted to know more details before congratulating the government for an act of apparent generosity.
"If something can protect the land, clean up radioactive tailings and address concerns the Utes have for their own land-management needs, we're for it," said Lawson LeGate, senior Southwest representative for the Sierra Club. "But we must withhold final judgment until we see all the details."
The land to be transferred adjoins 4.5 million acres of Uintah and Ouray Reservation in northern Utah, where about 3,800 tribe members live. It was set aside for the Utes, only to be taken back by executive order when the Navy was securing oil reserves for possible use as fuel in World War I or for a national emergency. Over the years, nothing was ever extracted, and the land remained unused and uninhabited, save for grazing horses, and managed by the Energy Department.
In recent years, with many naval vessels powered by nuclear fuels, the need for reserve oil shale grew even less.
The only larger parcels of land ever turned back to Native Americans by the government involved tribes in Alaska, after it became a state in 1959.
For the Utes, an impoverished tribe, any economic benefits from mining the land would, no doubt, help considerably. According to government reports, the reservation has an unemployment rate of 29 percent and an average annual income of $4,520. Much of the tribe's revenues come from oil production elsewhere on the reservation, a bowling alley, a water utility company and several tribe-owned gas stations.
Mr. Richardson said the contract with the Utes calls for the tribe to pay 8.5 percent of mineral royalties to the cleanup site, where a mill operated from 1956 through 1984. The last owners left a pile of waste that officials say is 110 feet high.
To begin the cleanup, Congress has to authorize a change in oversight to the Energy Department from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a transfer that is expected to proceed smoothly. Also, federal lawmakers need to approve money to finance the project. Mr. Richardson said the administration's budget request for fiscal year 2001 would include $10 million to begin the cleanup.
As the third major part of the deal, the Utes have agreed to cede control of a quarter-mile buffer along the Green River, a change that adds another natural resource to the list of lands the administration has recently designated for preservation and protection. This change would restrict activities along the river bank and, more important to many environmentalists, outlaw construction of any dam.
To accomplish that, the Energy Department intends to pass management of the strip to the Department of Interior.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Utah highlighting the land to be transferred: A move is the second-largest return of public lands to Indians. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH; UNITED STATES (95%); UTAH, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC PROPERTY; INDIANS, AMERICAN; UTES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); NUCLEAR WASTE (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (65%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; RICHARDSON, BILL (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL RICHARDSON (90%); AL GORE (88%); BILL CLINTON (88%); CHRIS CANNON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



357 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Intel's 4th-Quarter Profit Tops Wall Street Forecasts
After three quarters of results that disappointed investors, Intel posted fourth-quarter earnings that exceeded Wall Street's expectations because of strong demand for personal computers and a shift toward higher-performance chips that have bigger profit margins.
Excluding costs related to acquisitions, profit rose 15 percent, to 69 cents a share, topping forecasts of 63 cents, while revenue rose 8 percent. Shares of Intel edged down to $91.0625 in regular trading but soared as high as $95.75 in after-hours trading. Page C3. 

BP Amoco Pushes F.T.C. on Deal
Frustrated with its discussions with the Federal Trade Commission about its plans to acquire Atlantic Richfield, BP Amoco said it would invoke its right to set a 20-day deadline for the F.T.C. to challenge the deal. The action means the F.T.C. is likely to go to federal court to block the $31 billion deal. C5.
 
UAL Issues a 2000 Profit Warning
Faced with rising labor and fuel costs, UAL, the parent of United Airlines, said that its 2000 earnings were likely to be as much as 28 percent below expectations. The announcement prompted a huge sell-off of airline stocks. Shares of UAL, based in Chicago, plunged $9.875, to $64.875. Shares of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, dropped 6.5 percent, or $4.6875, to $60.25, and Delta Air Lines' stock fell 4.2 percent, or $2.1875, to $49.8125. C2.
 
Greenspan Warns About Inflation
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned that there were limits to how long the economy could continue growing without igniting inflation. C2.
 
Shares of AOL Reverse Their Slide
Shares of America Online reversed their two-day slide and jumped by 9 percent as investors began re-evaluating the company in the wake of its deal to acquire Time Warner. C2.
 
Shanghai played a part in the courtship between America Online and Time Warner. C2.
 
Scant Sign of Inflation Lifts Stocks
Stocks rose after a report of modest inflation calmed jittery investors. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 31.33 points, to 11,582.43. Broader stock indicators also closed higher. The Nasdaq composite index finished up 107.19 points, or 2.8 percent, to 3,957.21. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 17.43 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,449.68. C6.
 
Drug Industry Reconsiders Benefits
Drug company executives asked the White House for a cease-fire in their war over drug prices and said that they wanted to work with President Clinton and Congress to establish Medicare coverage of drugs this year. A1.
 
Madison Avenue Joins Hollywood
J. Walter Thompson USA in New York is forming an alliance with Basic Entertainment, a powerful company in Hollywood specializing in talent management and television and movie production. The affiliation is intended to help advertisers exploit the potentials inherent in entertainment marketing. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C4.
 
Treasury Plans to Buy Back Debt
The Treasury Department plans to use up to $30 billion of surplus cash this year to buy back outstanding debt, enticing investors to sell old bonds that pay interest rates that are much higher than the current ones. C6.
 
Koch Industries Fined $30 Million
The Environmental Protection Agency fined Koch Industries, one of the nation's largest oil and gas pipeline operators, $30 million for contaminating water in six states. A21.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,582.43 up 31.33
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.65% down 0.06
The euro -- $1.0254 down 0.0057
The dollar -- 106.13 yen up 0.15
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows the Consumer Price Index and the Industrial Production figures since June 1999. December figures due this morning

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); AOL (NYSE) (66%); BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%); AOL INC (66%); JWT (60%); BP PLC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); AIRLINES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (85%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (79%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); MEDICARE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); DRUG PRICES (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



358 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Republicans and the Confederate Flag

 BODY:
Both leading Republican candidates for president, Senator John McCain and Gov. George W. Bush, are being too clever by half in the perennially inflammatory debate over the Confederate battle flag in South Carolina. By declining to take a principled stand in this key primary state, the candidates are pandering to bias and perpetuating an outdated and ignoble practice from past Republican campaigns.
For years, South Carolina has been the only state to fly the Confederate battle flag over its Capitol. Black South Carolinians and many whites rightly view the flag as a reactionary symbol of slavery and segregation, but they have sought in vain to have it removed. The N.A.A.C.P. has declared an economic boycott against the state for as long as the flag flies, but Republicans in the state legislature have blocked all attempts to lower it. 
 Senator McCain, for whom the state's primary on Feb. 19 will be a crucial test, has made conflicting statements on the flag. On Sunday, facing a national television audience, he properly called it "offensive" and a "symbol of racism and slavery." A day later, addressing South Carolina reporters, he reversed himself and called the flag "a symbol of heritage." This was unmistakable code language that conservative white Republicans -- Mr. McCain's base in the state -- have long used to justify keeping the flag flying over the Statehouse.
Governor Bush has been no more principled. While he has said he would not fly the Confederate flag over the Texas Statehouse "because of the symbolism," he has also repeatedly said that the matter was for South Carolinians to decide. This won't do. It fails to take into account the concerns of a minority that lacks the political strength to expunge this affront to its dignity as an equal.
Other states across the South have long since moved beyond this ugly debate. Alabama, the last to do so, removed its flag from the Capitol dome in Montgomery in 1993 after black legislators won a lawsuit. Business leaders throughout the region, eager to compete in a cosmopolitan global market, have been at the forefront of efforts to remove the alienating emblems of a bygone era.
The campaign in South Carolina recalls earlier efforts by the Republican Party to tap into residual segregationist impulses, from Richard Nixon's Southern Strategy to Ronald Reagan's appeal for states' rights at a county fair in Philadelphia, Miss., in 1980. Today's Republicans are playing a cynical and, one might have hoped, obsolete game. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRIMARIES; BLACKS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BOYCOTTS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



359 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
U.S. Says It Plans to Buy Back Some Debt

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13

 BODY:
Throughout the deficit-plagued 1980's, the Treasury Department struggled to find novel ways of financing the government's ballooning daily expenses even as tax receipts fell further and further behind.
Now the Treasury still has a cash-flow crisis, but of a different kind: It must figure out what to do with the windfall cash generated as tax receipts continue to soar above expenses -- at least until Congress and the White House agree how to spend or refund the riches. 
 The answer, outlined today by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, is to make the Treasury Department for the first time a buyer as well as a seller of bonds. The Treasury, following some standard Wall Street tactics, will start intervening in the open market to manage its $3.6 trillion debt. Not unlike a company's use of spare cash to buy back its own stock in hopes of propping up the share price, the government hopes to lower its overall debt interest payments as a result.
The department plans to use up to $30 billion of surplus cash this year to buy back outstanding debt, Mr. Summers said. It will try to entice investors to sell old bonds on which the government pays interest rates that are much higher than the prevailing rates today. Using spare cash to play the bond market in this way is unprecedented, senior Treasury officials said, though the government jumped into the market to swap new debt for old debt in the 1960's.
"Buying back old, higher-interest debt allows us to manage the federal debt in a way that saves the American taxpayer money," Mr. Summers said in rolling out the debt buyback program, which was first broached last summer. "This is a new and welcome debt management challenge for the government."
The program will not be the main way the government reduces its overall debt. That is done more or less automatically by paying off investors whose bonds come due without issuing lots of new bonds. In the last two years -- when the government started generating surpluses for the first time since the 1960's -- it has reduced debt by $140 billion in that way.
The new intervention is aimed at accelerating the reduction of debt and at increasing the trading of the bonds that remain in the market. By limiting and simplifying the menu of bonds, the government can increase buying or selling of what is on offer. That reduces the risk investors take in buying the bonds, and means they will often accept slightly lower interest payments.
The benefits of such financial wizardry tend to be measured in basis points, or hundredths of percentage points. But when the government has $3.6 trillion in publicly traded debt outstanding, even a hundredth of a percentage point in savings equals $360 million in taxpayer money that can be used for some other purpose.
Treasury officials did not predict how much could be saved through the buyback program, in part because it depends on how the market reacts. The Treasury would like to buy back bonds paying nearly 14 percent interest, as some old government issues do, and force investors to buy newer issues that pay just over 6 percent. But investors might well choose to hold to the higher-paying bonds, even if the Treasury offers a nice premium in the open market to buy them back.
The Treasury looks set to have plenty of extra cash to try its hand at intervention. After the budget surplus reached $69 billion in 1998 and $123 billion last year, the Congressional Budget Office is predicting a surplus of $161 billion in fiscal 2000.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Increase
 By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose for the first time in four days after reports on retail sales and producer prices eased concern the Federal Reserve will have to aggressively raise interest rates to stem inflation.
"We're still in a nice environment of strong growth without significant price pressure," said Ted Reed, chief investment officer at Back Bay Advisors in Boston.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 22/32, to 93 7/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, fell to 6.65 percent from 6.71 percent on Wednesday.
Bonds rose after the government issued two economic reports for December showing that retail sales were higher than expected, while the producer price index was up only slightly.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT LAWRENCE H STEIN (57%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT TREASURY DEPARTMENT (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NATIONAL DEBT (US) TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (94%); BONDS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



360 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Down Here vs. Up There;
In South Jersey, the Economic Boom Is a Faint Noise

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: MILLVILLE, N.J.

 BODY:
Locals call this part of New Jersey Down Here. The rest of the state is Up There or Up North, although few people Down Here have much confidence that the folks Up There even know there is a difference.
And that's the problem. New Jersey's northern counties, like the rest of the country, are in an economic boom. But while traces of that boom have reached parts of the eight counties that make up South Jersey, much of the southern quarter of the state lags far behind in job growth, public investment and new construction. 
 The feeling that South Jersey is trailing behind has helped keep alive the nagging sense of grievance that people here feel with the keen solidarity of any minority. Like upstate New Yorkers looking south to New York City and its affluent suburbs, South Jerseyans look up at the sprawling suburbs, office campuses, shopping centers and factories of the north and feel a bit left out.
"South Jersey has always had the idea that all the money's going north," said Joe Cardona, associate director of university relations at Rowan University in Glassboro, the most important campus down here. "Even along political lines there's this us-versus-them mentality."
When the people who live in the sweet, open country of southern New Jersey's wide coastal plain talk about their region, they talk about how nice it is, how uncrowded and calm and neighborly. If you tap your horn on North Second Street in Millville or on Commerce Street in Bridgeton, a half-dozen or so pedestrians will automatically wave. If only, people say, there were more jobs, more investment, more money and maybe a little more notice from the economic powers up north.
"People up north have heard about Cherry Hill and Camden," said Louis N. Magazzu, a Cumberland County freeholder and a leader in several local economic development efforts. "They know about Atlantic City and they know about the Jersey Shore. But the area in between is a blank slate to them."
In between the Delaware River and the familiar resort towns of the shore lie a handful of old glassmaking, food-packing and textile-weaving towns like Hammonton, Glassboro, Vineland and Bridgeton, plus thousands of open acres of farmland and scrub forest, old Quaker settlements and historic black communities that date to before the end of slavery in New Jersey in 1803. All that, and a history of industrial decline that started with the collapse of the shellfish industry early in the 1900's and continued after World War II with the end of big food-packing giants like Seabrook Farms and the Campbell Soup Company, the departure of textile plants and the demise of a glass-manufacturing industry once so famous that Carl Sandburg put it in a poem, in 1904:
 Down in Southern New Jersey
They make glass. By day and by night
The fires burn on in Millville
And bid the sand let in the light.
 Now Millville's glass furnaces are cold, and the only glassmaking going on down here is done for the tourists, in artists' studios. Thomas P. Hamer, a professor of economics at Rowan University, said that while the south's slump was hardly monolithic, it was severe.
"The suburbs outside of Philadelphia and Camden are growing in housing, population and employment," Dr. Hamer said, "and the coastal area, where the Atlantic City casinos employ 45 or 50 thousand people, are doing well. It's the very rural interior, with its high unemployment rates, that is simply not participating with the rest of the state."
So Burlington County, just across the Delaware from Philadelphia, has an unemployment rate of 2.9 percent, according to the latest state estimates, while the Vineland-Millville-Bridgeton area in Cumberland County has an unemployment rate of 7.6 percent, making parts of the three cities eligible for a federal antipoverty Empowerment Zone designation.
Cape May County, whose southern tip would lie below the Mason-Dixon line if the line were extended east from Maryland, reported a jobless rate of 12.5 percent. New Jersey's statewide unemployment rate stands at 4 percent.
With about 2.7 million people, most of them in developments along the Delaware River border with Pennsylvania or along the shore, South Jersey's population amounts to about one-third of the state's 8 million inhabitants. They are younger and less well paid than their northern neighbors, Dr. Hamer said, but they also have lower costs of living.
For example, the average price of a house or a condominium in southern New Jersey was $124,670 in 1997, compared with an average cost of $192,978 in the northern 13 counties.
"This is a nice place, down here. People respond quite favorably to each other, but we need more jobs," said Ronald Bowman, a counselor in a youth program called Ranch Hope . "We lost the Owens-Illinois glass plant and Hunt's ketchup and all those other places, and people need to get some work."
Around the corner on Commerce Street, Marc Skulnick, owner of Morton Jewelers, pointed to the tidy, tree-lined streetscape, the vintage buildings and unspoiled prewar quaintness of the city and said he wished more visitors would be aware of the region's charming old downtown areas.
"This could be another New Hope," Mr. Skulnick said, referring to the tourist-clogged Delaware River village in Bucks County, Pa.
The southern region's lopsided population and employment picture, with most of the jobs and the money concentrated at the edges, helps explain Bill Fenselaw's frustration in trying to find employees for his electric motor repair service in Vineland.
"We're in an economically depressed area, which is why we have these federal zones as far as poverty goes, but I still can't find anyone to rewind motors for $18 an hour," Mr. Fenselaw said.
Robert J. Shannon, a Millville funeral director, acknowledged that South Jersey had a reputation as a sleepy backwater. Senator Frank Lautenberg once called it "New Jersey's Arkansas," and others have made the region the butt of jokes.
"We've had a couple of bad raps," Mr. Shannon said. "David Letterman rated us one of the worst places to live on one of those lists he has. But I'm very optimistic. I think we're a diamond in the rough."
Political leaders in South Jersey tend to criticize state economic development policies that, they say, favor the north. Some even blame the north for the south's despised new area code, 856, that was carved in November out of the region's old 609 code. The old code had stood for South Jersey for so long that the South Jersey Orchestra was sometimes affectionately called "The 609 Orchestra." But when the time came for somebody to be inconvenienced with a new code, the burden fell on the region with the fewest people and phones.
"They said they needed another area code because of increased demand for more numbers," said Mr. Magazzu, the Cumberland freeholder. "But you can bet it wasn't our demand down here that made them have to do it."
Mr. Magazzu is part of a South Jersey group trying hard to attract a new $200 million Nascar raceway to South Jersey. The group often complains that state leaders in Trenton are ignoring their claims in favor of North Jersey's Meadowlands area. The region is also consumed with the campaign to attract the battleship New Jersey as a tourist attraction to the Camden waterfront, instead of the North Jersey site, Bayonne, favored by a state panel.
"The U.S.S. New Jersey is in the paper every day down here -- it's like a war, it's like we're doing whatever we can do to get that darn boat down here," said Mr. Cardona of Rowan University. "Up there, it's not even in the papers."
Over years of feeling neglected, South Jersey has developed a distinctive political culture that dates at least to the early 1980's, when a movement to secede from the state briefly flourished. South Jersey voters have repeatedly defied the Republican majority in the state, for example, favoring their native son, former Gov. Jim Florio, when North Jersey was electing Christine Todd Whitman as governor in 1993, and voting for James E. McGreevey (of northern Woodbridge) four years later when the north re-elected Mrs. Whitman.
Now the region's 33 state senators and assemblymen have formed a caucus known simply as "the delegation" to vote the region's interests in Trenton. "They have turned South Jersey from something that was separate and apart into something that is very much included in the rest of the state," said Marleen Asselta, director of the South Jersey Development Council, an intergovernmental group.
With plenty of open space, cheap land and scant traffic congestion, Mr. Magazzu said, a continuing economic boom might yet bring some prosperity back to South Jersey -- prosperity on its own terms, too. "We want to encourage economic growth," he said, "but we don't want to end up like it is up north. We don't want to sell our soul for concrete and asphalt everywhere."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marc Skulnick, owner of Morton Jewelers in Bridgeton, N.J., says the town could be a tourist attraction, if only more people were aware of its charm. Many South Jerseyans believe their part of the state is overlooked. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Earl Wilson, a lifelong resident of Millville, N.J., opened Action Outlets on High Street in 1984. The store, which sells general merchandise and furniture, has seen a decline in sales as other businesses closed, he said. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Chart: "Uneven Unemployment"
Economically, much of the southern part of New Jersey has lagged behind the north. The unemployment rate, based on Novermber 1999 estimates, is one indicator that shows the disparity.
 
Map of New Jersey highlights the unemployment rates for each county. (Source: N.J. Dept. of Labor)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (60%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES SUBURBS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TEXTILE MFG (73%); TEXTILE MILLS (73%); GLASS MFG (73%); TRENDS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); RACE & RACISM (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (67%); FABRIC MILLS (65%); RETAILERS (53%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER THOMAS P HAMER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



361 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Critical of Administration, Iowa Farmers Are Cool to Gore

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: SLOAN, Iowa, Jan. 13

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore appealed today for support from Iowa farmers and staged an event that attacked his opponent, former Senator Bill Bradley, as unconcerned with the problems of American agriculture.
As Mr. Gore used the well-scripted meeting to promote his candidacy, local farmers used the occasion to emphasize to Mr. Gore their own difficulties and their dissatisfaction with the Clinton-Gore administration. Afterward, many of the farmers grumbled that they were not happy with any of the candidates. 
 Wearing blue jeans and a denim shirt, Mr. Gore stood center stage in a barn near this tiny town in western Iowa and denounced what he described as the "deadly threat" facing America's family farms. Some farmers said it sounded odd coming from a man who had helped run the country for the last seven years.
The message that Mr. Gore knows Iowa's concerns best is being reinforced in television and radio commercials with a testimonial by Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa.
"When the floods hit in '93, Al Gore came through for us," Mr. Harkin says in one commercial. "When it came to farm credit and federal crop insurance and ethanol, Al Gore came through for us."
He adds, "In fact, Al Gore is the only Democratic candidate for president who has been there for us in our times of need."
The Gore campaign had flown a New Jersey farmer, Roy Etsch, who has 1,100 acres of corn and hay near Princeton, to Iowa to tell the crowd in Sloan that Mr. Bradley never showed any interest in New Jersey farmers while representing the Senate from that state. Mr. Etsch told the audience that he had never been able to meet Mr. Bradley despite several efforts and added dismissively that Mr. Bradley would not know the difference between corn and soybeans.
Mr. Etsch, who said afterward that he was a Democrat who had voted for Mr. Bradley in each Senate election, told the crowd that Mr. Bradley "knows nothing about agriculture and cares less."
It made good theater, but many of the farmers did not seem particularly impressed. While the United States' economic expansion is about to set a record for its length, farmers are facing desperate times because of the slump in commodity prices. In the last three years 6,000 of Iowa's 20,000 hog farmers have gone out of business, the Center for Rural Affairs, a nonprofit farm advocacy group, said.
Without giving particulars, Mr. Gore called for new farm policies that would make payments to farmers whose prices were cyclically depressed, for more export markets for agriculture, for a larger exemption for family farms from the inheritance tax and for stronger anti-trust action against large agribusiness concerns that farmers often accuse of setting monopolistic prices.
"I didn't hear anything new or see that he had any answers," Don Hamisch, who farms alfalfa hay, said afterward.
Mr. Hamisch, a Democrat, said that he was not sure who he would vote for in the Democratic caucuses but that in the general election he would probably vote Republican.
During a discussion period, some farmers asked tough questions that were critical of the Clinton administration's Justice Department, Agriculture Department and trade representative. Whenever a skeptical question was raised, some of the farmers would nod and whisper, "Yes!"
Still, the mood toward Mr. Gore was a bit more positive afterward than before the meeting, and some farmers said a bit grudgingly that he seemed to know something about their problems.
"He told us what we wanted to hear," said Bill Ortner, who farms 3,000 acres of corn and soybeans and who earlier had described himself as unhappy with all the candidates. "He's tilted me more to his side. And Senator Bradley is probably out of the picture now."
Mr. Gore suggested in his talk that conservation programs might be one way to increase revenue for family farmers, and many in the audience seemed to welcome that. But many said they were suspicious of Mr. Gore because of his association with environmentalism.
"I worry about him being over-protective of the environment, so that I can't do my job," said Frank Yanak, a local farmer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore walked out of a barn yesterday with John Roarson, center, and Mike Wilt, left, at the Roarson farm in Sloan, Iowa. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORP (55%); FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORP (55%); FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; IOWA; UNITED STATES (99%); IOWA, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); THEATER (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (73%); HOG & PIG FARMING (73%); CORN MARKETS (69%); RADIO ADVERTISING (67%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (67%); CROP INSURANCE (66%); ALCOHOLS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (95%); BILL CLINTON (88%); TOM HARKIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



362 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Invest in Poor Areas, Clinton Urges

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW 

 BODY:
President Clinton yesterday proposed giving more tax credits to businesses that invest in the country's poorest areas, telling audiences in New York City that such spending is both a moral obligation during these flush times and squarely in the economic self-interest of those who have thrived the most.
"How can we keep this going?" Mr. Clinton asked, referring to the nation's remarkable prosperity in a speech at the Sheraton New York in Midtown Manhattan. The president suggested that the answer lies, almost paradoxically, in those parts of the country that have largely been left behind by the information age -- places like the inner city of East St. Louis, or the remote towns of Appalachia, or the immigrant neighborhoods of Brooklyn, a borough whose poverty rate is more than double the national average. 
 Unlike those booming regions where the job market is tight and new growth raises the specter of wage-driven inflation, depressed areas offer the possibility of growth without inflation, Mr. Clinton said.
"If the unemployment rate in Brooklyn drops from 9.4 percent to 4.1 percent, where it is nationwide, you can get a whole lot of new jobs there," Mr. Clinton said at a conference sponsored by the Wall Street Project, the Rev. Jesse Jackson's initiative to get corporations to open their boardrooms and capital to minority groups. "And then," Mr. Clinton continued, "those people that have the jobs spend their money there, and that won't contribute to inflation. It will keep the economy growing, and the same thing is true all across the country."
The president took several specific steps yesterday to flesh out what aides are calling his "new opportunity agenda." After a lengthy telephone conversation in the morning with President Hafez al-Assad of Syria about peace negotiations with Israel, Mr. Clinton proceeded by motorcade from his new home in Chappaqua to Brooklyn, where he opened a small-business development center at Boricau College in Williamsburg. The center, largely financed by the Small Business Administration and a $100,000 grant from Citigroup, will offer $13 million in new loans and management training to Brooklyn's 93,000 small businesses, a third of which have minority owners.
At the center, Mr. Clinton announced a plan to increase to $5 billion from $2 billion the amount of money available during the next 10 years for his "New Markets" tax credits, a program that gives companies a 25 percent tax credit for each dollar invested in community development projects in poor areas.
He also said he would push to expand the federal government's empowerment zones, depressed areas where some employers are eligible for 20 percent tax credits on up to $15,000 in wages per employee. Mr. Clinton said he would ask Congress to approve an additional $4 billion over 10 years to, among other things, increase the number of zones to 41 from 31. He said the Treasury Department would spend $30 million on pilot programs to encourage 11 million low-income families with no bank accounts to open low-cost "First Accounts."
Mr. Clinton stressed the notion that the nation, weeks away from setting a record for the longest economic expansion, was uniquely positioned to make these investments. "If we can't do this now, we will never do this," he said in Manhattan. "This is the only time in the lifetimes of most of us here that we've ever had a chance to give everyone a shot at the American dream."
It was a theme shared by House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, the Republican leader, who issued a statement this week saying he was "very excited to see the president unveil his ideas for community renewal."
"Our nation," Mr. Hastert said, "is enjoying an unprecedented period of economic growth, and it is important that no community be left behind." Mr. Hastert promised to work with the Clinton administration to come up with a package of tax and regulatory relief to stimulate investment in poor areas.
Last night, Mr. Clinton shared a podium with Mr. Jackson at a Rainbow Coalition gala at the New York Stock Exchange. He then headed to a fund-raising dinner at the Fifth Avenue home of John and Margo Catsimatidis. The dinner with 60 couples raised $250,000 for the Democratic National Committee.
On the political front, the president also got in several plugs yesterday for Hillary Clinton's performance Wednesday on "Late Show With David Letterman."
"You know," he said in Brooklyn, "I thought I was supposed to be the funny one in this family."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton, with the Rev. Jesse Jackson at the Sheraton New York yesterday, said that the time was right to help poor communities. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET PROJECT; SHERATON NEW YORK HOTEL AND TOWERS (NYC); BORICAU COLLEGE CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WALL STREET PROJECT; SHERATON NEW YORK HOTEL AND TOWERS (NYC); BORICAU COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAX CREDITS; ENTERPRISE ZONES; SMALL BUSINESS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (86%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (85%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POVERTY RATES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); SPONSORSHIP (51%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: BARSTOW, DAVID; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



363 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Now, Mayor Says, Is Time to Build Up, Under and All Around

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
In using his annual State of the City address to offer a shopping list for economic development, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday ranged across a spectrum of projects, real or only dreamed of, including such diverse public works as improvements to the East River Park and tax incentives for new offices in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens.
As it has done for years, the mayor's address provided a forum to promote Mr. Giuliani's most ambitious development scheme for Manhattan, construction of a sports stadium on the West Side rail yards, a $2 billion project that he said could be designed to attract the 2012 Olympics. He also reiterated his hope for a new freight tunnel between Staten Island and Brooklyn, a goliath undertaking -- estimated to cost $1 billion to $4 billion -- that would provide the city with its only direct rail link to the west. 
 But while Mr. Giuliani's grandest proposals varied little from what he has sought for years, and face daunting hurdles in environmental review, his commitment to several smaller initiatives appeared calculated to take advantage of a robust economy and to encourage new construction in the next two years.
"We're now a city that is growing up all over again," Mr. Giuliani said. "And we're leaving, hopefully, some really beautiful things behind for people."
Leading the mayor's list yesterday was a plan by the city for park improvements that he said would give "the East River the same attention as the Hudson River is getting." His project would follow extensive improvements by the Hudson River Park Conservancy, which has created a waterfront esplanade in Lower Manhattan.
In an interview, the city's parks commissioner, Henry Stern, said that the plan was to spend at least $5 million in 2001 to redevelop the East River Park, which runs from 12th Street to Montgomery Street. The initial improvements would include the addition of athletic fields, a recreation center with bathrooms and repairs to a seawall, he said. In the future, the city could extend the park as far as the Battery with additional land or esplanade space.
Two other plans presented by the mayor would steer development to the boroughs outside Manhattan. The largest would offer tax credits for new construction and renovation of office space -- extended by City Hall since 1995 to the Lower Manhattan financial district -- to downtown Brooklyn, Long Island City and the Fordham Road commercial corridor in the Bronx.
"It makes sense to do this now," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, an industry advocacy group. "When Manhattan gets as hot as it is, it creates a strong reason for tenants to move to the other boroughs."
Mr. Giuliani also announced a plan for a new development in the Bronx, involving a planned $110 million recreation and shopping complex on a site now occupied by the Kingsbridge Armory. The city would contribute $30 million for environmental work on the site, at Kingsbridge and Jerome Avenues. A New York City development firm, RD Management, would finance the remainder of the project, according to officials of Economic Development Corporation.
The Kingsbridge Armory, a former homeless shelter that has been vacant for years, is owned by New York State, which has offered it to the city for development, said Michael Carey, president of the development corporation. He said he expected the city to begin preparing the site for development in the next three months.
In what would rank as the city's most ambitious public improvement in decades, the mayor urged the construction of a rail-freight tunnel under New York Harbor to ease truck traffic and the pollution and congestion it creates.
Mr. Giuliani offered few leads on new sources of financing, or advances in architecture or engineering.
City lawyers and officials are preparing a detailed environmental impact statement on the proposal to be submitted to several federal agencies in March, in hopes of securing financial aid from Congress.
But the plan for a rail tunnel faces huge hurdles both because of its costs and the layers of review by agencies responsible for New York Harbor, including state and federal environmental authorities, the Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Maritime Administration.
The mayor also repeated his long-standing proposal for a stadium complex on the West Side with only slight revisions, saying that the project would now cost an estimated $2 billion, and could provide a home for both the New York Jets and the 2012 Olympics.
In an interview, a senior adviser to the mayor said yesterday that the mayor's hopes for a new stadium had taken on an urgency because he very much wanted the groundwork to be laid before he leaves office. That would give Mr. Giuliani less than a year if he is elected to succeed Daniel Patrick Moynihan in the United States Senate.
The official said that City Hall, working with a group of business people already preparing a bid to the United States Olympic Committee, would approach the committee with a proposal -- including architectural drawings of a stadium -- within a year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: The Mayor's Development Proposals"
 
Kingsbridge Armory redevelopment
 
Lincoln Center redevelopment
 
West Side N.F.L. and Olympic stadium
 
No. 7 subway line extension, new Metro North station
 
Board of Education headquarters to be sold
 
Freight rail tunnel
 
Minor league baseball stadium
 
New St. George ferry terminal, two museums
 
Tax incentives in Long Island City, downtown Brooklyn and Fordham Road in the Bronx
 
Redevelopment of the East River Park in Manhattan
 
Some Citywide Initiatives
$2 billion in tax cuts
 
DNA databank lab
 
More special anti-domestic violence programs in police precincts
 
Purchase of infrared cameras for fire stations
 
600 additional school safety offices
 
Expand school safety patrol program

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: ;NEW YORK JETS STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; EAST RIVER PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STATE OF THE CITY MESSAGE (NYC); PUBLIC WORKS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); FOOTBALL ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (84%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); SPORTS (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); OLYMPICS (75%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (75%); BASEBALL (70%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); TRENDS (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



364 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE FRONT-RUNNER;
In Iowa, Bush Gets a Little Help From Dad

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC, Iowa, Jan. 13

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush put out a call for Dad today. And Dad, the former president, came running, telling Iowa voters that they should vote for his son in the Republican presidential caucuses on Jan. 24 because he was tough enough and experienced enough to occupy the White House and would "serve with honor."
"He'd be excellent at doing what I tried to do," former President George Bush said, sounding more like a father than a political promoter. 
 The elder Bush's appearance here in the packed high school auditorium of this southwest Iowa farm town was his first genuine stump performance for his son, though previously he had appeared at fund-raisers, many closed to the nonpaying public. But it was not an appearance suddenly scheduled because George W. is in any serious political trouble in Iowa, scene of the nation's first caucuses. He is not.
Rather, it was an appearance that seemed intended to increase the governor's lead in Iowa over his nearest caucus contender, the publisher Steve Forbes. The better he does in Iowa, his campaign hopes, the bigger will be his "bounce" as he heads for New Hampshire, where the nation's first primary will be held on Feb. 1 and where several polls show him trailing Senator John McCain of Arizona. Mr. McCain is not participating in the Iowa caucuses.
"I hope people who are undecided will take at look at my son," the elder Mr. Bush said in 30 minutes of off-the-cuff remarks in which he mixed self-deprecatory humor about his own campaign triumphs and travails with dead-serious pleas for support for his son.
Polls indicate that at least 10 percent of all likely Republican voters in Iowa have not yet made up their minds about whom to vote for. Of those who say they favor Mr. Bush, about half also say they might be persuaded to vote for someone else.
But about three-fourths of those who say they are inclined to vote for Mr. Forbes say they might be persuaded to vote for someone else.
President Bush had mixed results himself back in the days when he was competing for votes in Iowa, placing first in the 1980 caucuses but later getting "dusted" in New Hampshire, as he put it today. Eight years later, he stumbled and finished third in Iowa, yet managed to recover in other contests and went on to win the White House.
How much his appearance here this afternoon, along with a second stop in Des Moines, helped his son is but a guess. But several national polls have indicated that George W.'s high poll numbers can be accounted for, in part, by the fact that he carries the Bush name. In any event, Bush campaign officials say the former president's trip to Iowa to stump will be followed by other visits to other states.
Further, they said the governor's mother, Barbara, who has been out on the stump for some time, would continue her travels.
"She's working her heart out for our son," the former president told his audience of 600 or so school children, townspeople and local farmers.
Again and again he made the point that during much of his time as vice president and president, his son had been at his side, helping and observing. In the years since, he said, his son has served as governor of a state that has an economy larger than that of most countries and where "they don't play softball in politics."
"He knows this stuff," the elder Mr. Bush said. "He knows what the stakes are.
"He was at my side during a lot. I think he would be excellent at it. He will serve with honor."
The former president said at the start of his remarks -- "These are remarks, because I don't give speeches anymore," he insisted -- that he would have "nothing bad to say against any of the people that George is campaigning against right now." Nor, he added, would he offer any "sour grapes" or "bad loser" comments about President Clinton.
For the most part, he stuck by his word, though toward the end he made some oblique remarks that came close to touching on the Monica Lewinsky scandal, saying at one point as he called for new national leadership:
"Here's what I want: I want to see us return to a society with fundamental values."
Then, edging in a little closer, he joked that the Jenny Craig diet company had recently called to ask him whether he was interested in trying to lose 30 pounds, an obvious reference to Monica S. Lewinsky, who has signed on as a company representative.
He closed on a family values note, saying that his parents had taught him to "be kind, be honest and give somebody else the credit."
"I learned a lot from them about fundamental values," he added, "and I would hope my son has."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President George Bush worked the phones yesterday at the George W. Bush for President headquarters in Des Moines. He is in the state campaigning for his son for the Republican nomination. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES CAUCUSES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); ETHICS (71%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



365 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Expected To Propose Increase In Spending Limits

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13

 BODY:
President Clinton will propose increasing federal spending limits by billions of dollars, Democrats said today, bowing to pressures generated by the fall elections and the budget surplus.
Eager to join congressional Democrats in showering their districts with campaign-year dollars, many Republicans also seemed open to raising the limits. But because many wanted to preserve the bulk of the surplus for tax cuts, they have not decided what, if anything, to do. 
 There was no doubt that by either ignoring the restrictions or changing them, the limits would be surpassed by billions of dollars. They were breached last year by $32 billion and the year before that, as both parties used budget gimmickry to avoid having the extra spending show on the bottom line.
Even so, raising the spending caps would have the symbolic significance of bidding a bipartisan farewell to tight restraints envisioned in 1997 when federal deficits prevailed. It would also underline that with swelling annual surpluses, politicians believe the voters have little taste for such restrictions.
Raising the limits could give Mr. Clinton a edge over Republicans. Since surplus projections are based partly on spending assumptions, higher spending means less money left for the tax cuts that many Republicans want, including Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the Republican presidential front-runner.
Even so, the strong economy was producing so much revenue that many Republicans feel that there could be enough money for both extra spending and tax cuts.
Mr. Clinton will propose letting spending rise somewhat below the inflation rate, Democratic officials said. The plan would be presented on Feb. 7 in the budget for the 2001 fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); BUDGETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); INFLATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



366 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Spared And Nassau Helped as LIPA Settles Tax Case

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: UNIONDALE, N.Y., Jan. 13

 BODY:
A bitter 20-year tax dispute that embroiled a power company and Long Island counties, schools, towns, taxpayers and utility customers -- as well as several courts and New York's governor -- ended today with a $620 million settlement.
The agreement, announced here by the Long Island Power Authority and a phalanx of smiling officials from around Long Island, will save Suffolk County taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars in threatened property tax increases and provide financially troubled Nassau County with $20 million to help reduce its budget deficit, which has been estimated beyond $100 million. In addition, the utility's customers in Nassau will each get a rebate check for $50. 
 The deal settles the utility's claim that it was owed $1.4 billion for excess taxes on its Shoreham nuclear power plant, which was built in the mid-1970's but never opened. But the settlement is not expected to place any new burden on Suffolk County, its taxpayers or the ratepayers there, who have already been paying a 2 percent surcharge on electric bills in anticipation of a settlement. Nassau County and its ratepayers will get the rebates and other funds to redress the higher electric rates they paid for the Shoreham plant.
"The final chapter on Shoreham has been written," the power authority's chairman, Richard M. Kessel, said today. "It's certainly appropriate that we begin the new year and the new millennium with a clean slate."
The amount of the settlement is only $5 million less than the offer first made by LIPA two years ago. The Suffolk Legislature resisted that offer until Tuesday, when it lost its battle before the state's highest court, in a ruling that forced all parties to resolve the matter quickly.
The agreement is the last bit of fiscal fallout from the Shoreham plant, which initially pumped hundreds of millions of tax dollars into Suffolk, the town of Brookhaven and the Shoreham-Wading River School District. Even after environmental opposition forced the utility, then called the Long Island Lighting Company, to mothball the plant in 1989, the utility continued to pay high taxes under protest, and eventually sued the county, Brookhaven and the school district to recover the overpayment.
The utility won a judgment four years ago for $1.2 billion. With interest, that figure grew to $1.4 billion.
But in 1997, Gov. George E. Pataki offered a $625 million settlement of the tax dispute, as part of the state's partial takeover of Lilco, which was absorbed by the Long Island Power Authority. Through the authority, the governor also lowered electric rates across Long Island and provided direct cash rebates to LIPA's customers.
The protracted legal battle was forced by the Suffolk Legislature, which argued that the state legislation that created LIPA had absolved local governments of the need to pay back any tax overassessments on the Shoreham plant. The courts disagreed, and the County Legislature lost the final round in the legal dispute on Tuesday, when the state Court of Appeals upheld a lower court ruling that the utility was entitled to $1.4 billion.
The ruling forced all the parties in the dispute to rush to a final accord to avoid paying the full amount -- a sum that everyone, including utility officials, agreed would create financial chaos in Suffolk. The first to settle with LIPA was Suffolk County, followed by Nassau County, the Town of Brookhaven, the Shoreham-Wading River School District, the North Shore Library District and the Wading River Fire District.
The Suffolk County executive, Robert J. Gaffney, who signed the agreement on Monday, said today, "The black cloud that has loomed over the taxpayers of every town in Suffolk, threatening massive tax increases which would have devastated the local economy, has been eliminated with absolutely no impact on Suffolk's financial condition, with no increase in taxes."
The Nassau County executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, described the deal as a "win-win for Nassau ratepayers and taxpayers."
"We've worked hard to protect the interests of Nassau residents without placing Suffolk in jeopardy," he said.
Paul Tonna, recently elected as presiding officer of the Suffolk County Legislature, said there would be no more legal challenges to the agreement. "It is in the best interest of all Long Islanders that this matter be put behind us once and for all," he said.
Mr. Kessel, LIPA's chairman, said the terms of the agreement had been actively under discussion with Suffolk and Nassau Counties and others involved in the dispute since last Election Day. He said LIPA and the two counties had reached agreement in principle before the Court of Appeals issued its ruling on Tuesday.
As part of the settlement, LIPA will provide $5 million in credits to all customers for the next three years to keep the utility's rates at 20 percent below their levels before the state takeover -- a goal set by Governor Pataki.
"With this agreement, the full promise of our historic plan has been realized," Mr. Pataki said today in a statement. "Ratepayers win by getting lower electric bills, and the taxpayers win by avoiding massive property tax hikes. This was a promise we made nearly two years ago, and this is the promise we deliver upon today."
Mr. Kessel said LIPA hoped to issue $50 rebate checks in the spring to its customers in Nassau and the Rockaways. He also said that through LIPA's Clean Energy Fund, Nassau would receive $20 million for clean energy and energy conservation and efficiency programs.
LIPA, which gets favorable rates on bonds, will finance the settlement by issuing about $475.5 million in bonds, of which $142.5 million has already been issued. To pay for principal and interest, a 2 percent surcharge will continue to be imposed on electric rates in Suffolk.
LIPA has also been helping the other parties adjust to the loss of tax revenue from Shoreham. It will continue to make payments on a declining basis to Suffolk, Brookhaven, the Shoreham-Wading River School District, the North Shore Library District and the Wading River Fire District through March 2002.
In addition to the Shoreham claim, LIPA has agreed to withdraw all other claims of tax overassessments, which total about $395 million in Nassau and about $160 million in Suffolk. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); SUFFOLK LEGISLATURE (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY SUFFOLK LEGISLATURE (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REBATES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); MILLENNIUM (64%); SALES REBATES (58%); PLANT CLOSINGS (53%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



367 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Office Vacancy Rate Is at a 10-Year Low

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Manhattan's office vacancy rate is at its lowest point in a decade, according to a new study.
The vacancy rate at the end of last year fell to 6.7 percent from 8.5 percent a year earlier, the study, released by the real estate brokerage and management firm Cushman & Wakefield, said. 
 The report attributed the low vacancy rate to the city's robust economy. Last year, 80,000 jobs were created in New York City, in established industries and newer ones such as high-technology firms and Internet companies.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (93%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (82%); JOB CREATION (52%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



368 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E;Part 1;Page 6;Column 1;Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3559 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC AND DANCE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy opera, classical music and dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region.
 
Opera
 
"THE GREAT GATSBY." Metropolitan Opera. The Met presents its final performance of the long-awaited "Great Gatsby," commissioned from John Harbison. Look for two uproarious party scenes featuring vivid dancing and the composer's clever syntheses of 1920's popular style. The cast, with Dawn Upshaw, Susan Graham, Jerry Hadley and Dwayne Croft, is first-rate, and the production has a handsome simplicity. The music never quite lives up to its surroundings, but the Met's earnest effort at new American opera deserves support. Tomorrow night at 8. Tickets: standing room only, $12 and $16; (212) 362-6000 (Bernard Holland). 

NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS. Albert Bergeret's New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players are an inventive, experienced and energetic troupe, the only survivors of what was once a thriving Savoyard tradition in New York. The group's productions are solid and simple, with topical touches and good, enthusiastic casts and often a guest star. For its current offering, "Princess Ida," the guest is Frank Gorshin, as King Gama. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street; (212) 864-5400. Tickets: $31, $41 and $46; $5 off each ticket for children 12 and younger. Tomorrow Mr. Bergeret introduces the opera in "Family Overtures," a talk at 1:45 p.m. It is free to ticket-holders (Allan Kozinn).
 
"MADAMA BUTTERFLY." The lovely French soprano Sylvie Valayre, who just made her Metropolitan Opera debut in the title role of Puccini's "Madama Butterfly," sings the role with determination and effectiveness, though she pushes her essentially lyric soprano, which causes some stridency in her singing. But she makes the portrayal work on her own terms. The Russian tenor Vladimir Galouzine brings power and ardency, though not much subtlety to his singing as Pinkerton. The conductor Marcello Viotti, in his Met debut, leads a pliant yet tellingly paced performance. Metropolitan Opera House, tonight at 8. Tickets: $225 to $26; (212) 362-6000 (Anthony Tommasini).
 
"REGINA." A new film from the director Tim Robbins tells the story of the struggle by John Houseman and Orson Welles to present Marc Blitzstein's populist opera "The Cradle Will Rock" in 1937. This makes more timely the Bronx Opera Company production of Blitzstein's 1949 opera, "Regina," an adaptation of Lillian Hellman's play "Little Foxes." While more traditional in concept than "Cradle," "Regina" is innovative and interesting. For more than 30 years this independent, community-based company has been giving performance opportunities to young singers and introducing audiences to opera. Michael Spierman conducts and Benjamin Spierman directs. Lovinger Theater at Lehman College, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, the Bronx. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Tickets: $20 and $15, with discounts for students and seniors. Reservations: (212) 807-5636 (Tommasini).
 
"RIGOLETTO." The title role in Verdi's "Rigoletto" will be sung this weekend at the Metropolitan Opera by Leo Nucci, the baritone who portrayed the ill-fated jester when this Otto Schenk production was introduced in 1989. The singers in the other two principal roles remain the same from earlier this season. The fine lyric soprano Sumi Jo sings Gilda beautifully; the highly touted tenor Marcelo Alvarez is the Duke. Mr. Alvarez boasts a bright tenor voice, but is overly emotive in the role. Vladimir Jurowski, 27, who was quite impressive conducting "Rigoletto" for his Met debut on Christmas Eve, is at the podium again. Metropolitan Opera House, tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. Tickets: $170 to $26; (212) 362-6000 (Tommasini).
 
Classical Music
 
AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA. Leon Botstein conducts the American Symphony Orchestra in a concert performance of "Die Liebe der Danae," one of Richard Strauss's most rarely performed operas, his last opulent reinterpretation of a Greek myth in terms of modern psychology. The highly promising cast includes Lauren Flanigan, Peter Coleman-Wright, Lisa Saffer and Hugh Smith. Avery Fisher Hall, Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $18 to $45; (212) 721-6500 (Paul Griffiths).
 
BACHMANN-KLIBONOFF-FRIDMAN TRIO. This fine young piano trio is offering a series of programs that explores a great expanse of the repertory and is organized geographically. American works were presented in the first two offerings; now, in a program called "Back to Basque," the trio turns its attention to the influence of the Basque region of Spain on Spanish and French composers (Falla and Ravel in particular), with a glimpse across the Atlantic to the music of Astor Piazzolla. Tonight at 7 (with a preconcert talk at 6:30 p.m.). Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, Manhattan. Tickets: $30 for nonmembers, $20 for members; (212) 685-0008, extension 347 (Kozinn).
 
BARGEMUSIC. There are few better places to hear chamber music in New York: once a coffee barge, this floating concert hall offers the intimacy that chamber music demands, as well as a wonderful view of lower Manhattan through the bay windows that make up the back wall of the stage. More crucially, the performances, by some of New York's best young chamber players, are usually first-rate. This week Bargemusic is offering two all-Beethoven concerts, with Philippe Graffin, violinist; Toby Hoffman, violist; Gary Hoffman, cellist; and Jeremy Menuhin, pianist. Tonight and tomorrow night, the musicians are offering the Violin and Piano Sonata in G (Op. 96), the "Archduke" Trio (Op. 97) and a version of "An die Ferne Geliebte" (Op. 98) arranged for viola and piano. The program on Sunday includes the 12 Variations on a Theme by Handel for cello and piano, the Piano Quartet in E flat (Op. 16) and the "Ghost" Trio (Op. 70, No. 1). Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 2 p.m. Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing, Brooklyn. (718) 624-2083 or (718) 624-4061. Tickets: $23, $20 for the elderly, $15 for students (Kozinn).
 
CARNEGIE HALL CHORAL WORKSHOP CONCERT. The annual Choral Workshops that Robert Shaw led in the 1980's and 90's attracted choral directors, singers and conductors from all over the United States who were eager to learn Shaw's art by singing in performances he prepared. And the public concert that closed each workshop was, not surprisingly, a popular draw and usually a critical success. Shaw died before last year's workshop, but Carnegie Hall continues the tradition, this year under the direction of James Conlon and Norman Mackenzie. Mr. Conlon is conducting the valedictory concert, which includes Robert Levin's insightful completion of the Mozart Requiem, and Zemlinsky's settings of Psalm 23 and Psalm 13. Tonight at 8. Carnegie Hall. Tickets: $21 to $86; (212) 247-7800 (Kozinn).
 
CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER. "Musical Evolutions II: Crisis and Creativity (1922-1945)" is the title of an interesting series of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, which is presenting its second concert this weekend. Offering six concerts and four lectures, the series will examine music from that historical period of economic collapse, political turmoil, Fascism, world war and genocide. Paradoxically, there were also years of intense creativity and radical innovation in the arts, especially music. The series continues today with a program offering Bartok's great Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion, Janacek's Violin Sonata, Stravinsky's Duo Concertante for Violin and Piano and an arrangement for two pianos of Gershwin's "American in Paris." The pianists are David Golub and Andre-Michel Schub. On Sunday the excellent Takacs String Quartet performs Bartok's Six String Quartets. This is a rare chance to hear these six seminal, challenging works performed as a entity. Bartok/ Janacek/Stravinsky/Gershwin program: tonight at 8; Takacs String Quartet program: Sunday at 5 p.m. Alice Tully Hall. Tickets to each: $25 and $35; both also offer a $10 student rush ticket. Ticket information, (212) 875-5788 (Tommasini).
 
MARILYN HORNE FOUNDATION PANEL, MASTER CLASSES AND GALA CONCERT. This weekend's annual gala celebration of the Marilyn Horne Foundation comes as Ms. Horne is ending her singing career. As a gesture of thanks to the city, the foundation is presenting a free performance of the gala concert at Carnegie Hall on Sunday afternoon. The guest singers include Bryn Terfel, Renee Fleming, Dolora Zajick, Deborah Voigt, Jerry Hadley, David Daniels and some of the younger artists the foundation has supported. Today there will be two master classes at the Juilliard Theater, 155 West 65th Street, one with the pianist and accompanist Martin Katz and the other with the soprano Regine Crespin. That night the status of the song recital and other matters will be discussed by a lively panel of critics, none of whom has any trouble expressing an opinion: Peter G. Davis, Richard Dyer, Manuela Hoelterhoff, John von Rhein and Heidi Waleson. Gala Concert: Carnegie Hall, Sunday at 2 p.m. Free. The concert is sold out, but a cancellation line forms at the box office beginning at noon. At the Juilliard Theater today: Martin Katz master class, 11 a.m.; Regine Crespin master class, 3 p.m.; Critics' Round Table, 8 p.m. Tickets for each event are $20. Tickets for all three cost $55; (212) 769-7406. Tickets: (212) 721-6500 (Tommasini).
 
NEW YORK COLLEGIUM VOCAL ENSEMBLE. The distinguished Dutch choral director Jos van Veldhoven, particularly admired for his performances of German Baroque music, conducts a program including works by J. S. Bach and his great-uncle Johann, as well as Johann Hermann Schein, a contemporary of J. S., and Heinrich Schutz, a contemporary of Johann. Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street, tonight at 8. Admission is free; (212) 717-9246 (Griffiths).
 
NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC. Anne-Sophie Mutter presents two big works written for her: Wolfgang Rihm's "Time Chant" and Krzysztof Penderecki's Violin Concerto No. 2, the former a long song in the high register, the latter an imposing monument, mostly dark and severe. Kurt Masur conducts the program, which also includes two display pieces for the orchestra: Ravel's sensuous "Valse" and Richard Strauss's portrait of a joker, "Till Eulenspiegel." Avery Fisher Hall, Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Tickets: (212) 721-6500 (Griffiths).
 
NORTH/SOUTH CONCORDANCE. This ensemble, which is directed by the enterprising pianist and composer Max Lifchitz, has been specializing in music of North and South America for the last 20 years and seems unlikely to run out of material. For its first concert of the season, the group is performing Wayne Peterson's "Janus," Roque Cordero's "Petite Mobiles," Allan Crossman's "Millennium Overture Dance," Eduardo Soto-Millan's "Three Trees in Two Toons (A Child's Smile)" and Mr. Lifchitz's "Yellow Ribbons No. 21." Sunday at 3 p.m., Christ and St. Stephen's Church, 120 West 69th Street, Manhattan. Admission is free; (212) 663-7566 (Kozinn).
 
NED ROREM HOSTS. The 92nd Street Y has followed Carnegie Hall's lead in presenting new music concerts in which a celebrated composer interviews other composers about their works before those works are played. Ned Rorem is the gracious host for these concerts, and in the first installment of the season his guests are Lukas Foss, Ezra Laderman, David Diamond and George Perle. On the program: Mr. Foss's Quartet No. 4 and Mr. Laderman's Quartet No. 9, both to be performed by the Muir String Quartet, as well as Mr. Perle's Quartet No. 11 and Mr. Diamond's Quartet No. 8, to be played by the Chicago String Quartet. Tomorrow night at 8, 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Tickets: $25; (212) 996-1100 (Kozinn).
 
Dance
 
ALTOGETHER DIFFERENT. This annual series features up-and-coming dance organizations. Tonight at 8, the Seattle-based group 33 Fainting Spells offers "Sorrow's Sister," a dramatic study of three European women's struggles to survive during World War II. Tomorrow night at 8, Dance by Neil Greenberg presents "This Is What Happened" and "Sequel," enigmatic and witty works inspired by mystery movies whose choreographic plots thicken with shifting relationships that imply multiple meanings. On Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., the Lula Washington Dance Theater of Los Angeles features emotionally intense studies exploring the dark sides of human behavior and an urban square dance. Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea. Tickets: $18; (212) 242-0800 (Jack Anderson).
 
BALLET DE L'OPERA DE BORDEAUX. Charles Jude, the director of the Ballet de l'Opera de Bordeaux and a former Paris Opera dancer who was much admired by Rudolf Nureyev, will play the male title role in Tilt Harm's "Romeo and Juliet." Sunday at 2 p.m. Brooklyn Center at Brooklyn College, Walt Whitman Theater, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush. Tickets: $25 and $30, (718) 951-4500 (Jennifer Dunning).
 
BREAD WITH HONEY. Katja Kolcio describes her choreography as combining ancient patterns and modern awareness. The dances are set to music by Julian and Alex Kytasty, performed on traditional Slavic instruments. Tonight and Jan. 22 and 28 at 8:30 p.m. The Bridge for Dance, 2726 Broadway, between 104th and 105th Streets. Tickets: $10; (212) 924-0077 (Dunning).
 
BUDAPEST ENSEMBLE. A Hungarian company brings a colorful bit of Central European dance history to life in "Czardas: The Tango of the East." Through songs and dances, the troupe tells the story of the czardas, a fiery dance denounced by preachers and disdained by aristocrats that eventually became a symbol of the Hungarian soul. Sunday at 2 p.m., Lehman Concert Hall, Lehman College, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard, the Bronx. Tickets: $25 and $20; (718) 960-8833 (Anderson).
 
THE BUILDERS ASSOCIATION AND DILLER AND SCOFIDIO. The Builders Association, a performance ensemble, joins with the architects and media artists Diller and Scofidio in "Jet Lag," a multimedia piece about the complications of time and space brought on by contemporary technologies. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. A free exhibition of computer-generated video animation work by Diller and Scofidio may be seen through Jan. 29 at the Kitchen Art Gallery, Tuesdays through Saturdays from 2 to 6 p.m., one hour before performances and at intermissions. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea. Tickets: $20; admission is free to the exhibition. The performances are sold out, but a waiting list opens for returned tickets one hour before each performance. Information: (212) 255-5793 (Dunning).
 
SKIP COSTA AND COREMOVEMENT PROJECT. Skip Costa, who danced with Mark Dendy and the Washington Opera, will present "The Movement Within," four dances addressing fear, violence, surrendering and sorrow, on weekends through Jan. 30. Tomorrow night at 8:30 and Sunday at 3 p.m. The Bridge for Dance, 2726 Broadway, between 104th and 105th Streets. Tickets: $35 for tomorrow, a company benefit; other performances, $15; $12 for dancers; (212) 802-7957 (Dunning).
 
FLAMENCO EXTRAVAGANZA. The cast may change with performances, depending on which guest artists turn up at this intimate club to sing, dance or play flamenco guitar. But the star of the evening is Carmen La Sala, featured with Paco Ortiz, Juan Amaya, Sandra Rivera and Natalia Brillante. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30. On Tuesday nights at 8:30, "Scheherazade's Tales," an evening of belly dancing. On Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8:30, a variety show. Tickets: $20 for the flamenco program and $10 each for "Scheherazade's Tales" and the variety show. El Patio del East Side, 211 East 60th Street, near Second Avenue; (212) 838-9090 (Dunning).
 
SHARON FOGARTY. A quirky original, Sharon Fogarty addresses creativity in an eveninglong theater-and-dance piece called "Heaven." Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Greenwich Street Theater, 547 Greenwich Street, at Charlton Street, South Village. Tickets: $12; (212) 677-2770 (Dunning).
 
"DANCE ACCESS." New dances by Terese Freedman and Jim Coleman that celebrate the music of Roy Orbison, Neil Young and P. J. Harvey, on a program that also includes work by Yanira Castro, Karinne Keithley, Fritha Pengelly and JoAnna Mendl Shaw. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30. Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village. Tickets: $12; T.D.F. vouchers accepted; (212) 674-8194 (Dunning).
 
"I BELIEVE." The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is commemorated in a program of dance by Eleo Pomare, Cynthia Oliver, Terry Hollis, Andrea Woods, Paka, and Jim Moody, choreographers chosen by the former Katherine Dunham dancer Dana Manno. Sunday at 5 p.m. Tickets: $10 at the door or by reservation, (212) 415-5553; 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 996-1100 (Dunning).
 
ANGELA JONES AND NOEL MacDUFFIE. A new look at the Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale "The Snow Queen" features choreography by Angela Jones and music by Noel MacDuffie. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday and Monday nights at 7. Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village. Tickets: $12 and $15, (718) 472-4465 (Dunning).
 
HETTY KING DANCE. Hetty King's new "Waltz," a series of three solos, places that ebullient dance in a dream space in the unconscious mind. Tonight at 8. Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street. Tickets: $15; $12 for students and the elderly; (212) 334-7479 (Dunning).
 
MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP. He's back and the New Victory has got him, along with a company of vivid and accomplished dancers and musicians. Some of Mark Morris's happiest confections will be performed, among them the riotous "Dancing Honeymoon," set to songs popularized in the 1930's by Gertrude Lawrence and Jack Buchanan. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m. New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street. Tickets: $25 to $45, (212) 239-6200 (Dunning).
 
NEW YORK CITY BALLET. This is "Swan Lake" weekend at the New York City Ballet, with chances to catch Peter Martins's new take on the classic in performances tomorrow at 2 p.m. and Sunday at 3; tickets: $25 to $72. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center; (212) 870-5570. This weekend's "Ballet Insights" discussion, "Performing the Role of Von Rotbart in Peter Martins's 'Swan Lake,' " is tomorrow at 12:45 p.m. at the Kaplan Penthouse, Rose Building, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Tickets are $5. The company will also present its multimedia "Family Fanfare," a preview of the afternoon's program, at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. at the Clark Studio Theater in the Rose Building. Tickets: $5 for children; $7 for adults; (212) 870-4074 (Dunning).
 
NICHOLASLEICHTERDANCE. Nicholas Leichter, who danced with Ralph Lemon, will present "Breakdown," a program of pieces that incorporate urban, street and hip-hop movement and are set to music by Lauryn Hill and Erykah Badu, with D.J. Eddie Chai. Today, tomorrow and Sunday at 8 p.m., and Thursdays through Sundays through Jan. 30 at 8 p.m. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, Lower Manhattan. Tickets: $25; $18 student rush tickets available at the door, (212) 226-0051 (Dunning).
 
JODY OBERFELDER: SOCIAL DANCES. An exploration of the need to move with, and be moved by, other people, "Social Dances" will be performed by young and veteran dancers who include the choreographer Elizabeth Keen. Tonight and tomorrow night, and subsequent Friday and Saturday nights through Jan. 29 at 8; also Jan. 23 and 30 at 3 p.m. Dixon Place at Vineyard 26, 309 East 26th Street, east of Second Avenue, Manhattan. Tickets: $12 or Theater Development Fund vouchers; $8 for students, the elderly and members of Dixon Place; information, (212) 532-1546 (Dunning)
 
SARAH SKAGGS DANCE. Sarah Skaggs, her dancers and D.J. Steven Harvey will perform "Paradise," which is part dance concert, part participatory dance party. The piece, which takes place in a gymnasium, is the first in a series presented by the Danspace Project's Artists in the House program, which takes performers and performances into places where people live. Tomorrow night at 7 and 9. St. Patrick's Youth Center, 268 Mulberry Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, Little Italy. Tickets: $10 (one show); $15 (both shows), (212) 674-8194 (Dunning).
 
"VAUDEVILLE 2000 -- MILKING THE MILLENNIUM." For this scrappy, good-naturedly funny show, the producer Laraine Goodman has assembled a cast of first-rate tap dancers, who include the Young Hoofers, Tony Waag and Toes Tiranoff; and performance artists like Ann Kilkelly, whose ukulele playing is a feast of deadpan hilarity. There is also a storytelling aerialist named Montana Miller, a Russian tap vaudevillian act called Sergei and Vasilli, and the Naughts, a chorus line composed of the performers Nada, Gatz, Zip, Bupkes, Zero, Zilch and Nil. The scenery trembles. The cut-and-paste props are inspired. If Ms. Goodman's 1998 vaudeville show is any guide, this show will be good, scrappy, nutty fun. Through Sunday at the Club at La MaMa. Tonight and tomorrow night at 10; Sunday at 5 p.m. La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village. Tickets: $12; Theater Development Fund vouchers accepted; (212) 475-7710 (Dunning).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
The Classical Music and Dance Guide in Weekend yesterday misstated the site for "Regina" by the Bronx Opera Company. It will be performed tonight at 8 at the John Jay College Theater, 899 10th Avenue, between 58th and 59th Streets, in Manhattan, not at Lehman College in the Bronx.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Takacs String Quartet will play Sunday at Lincoln Center. (Keith Saunders/Cramer-Marder Artists); Wendy Whelan in "Swan Lake," with the New York City Ballet. (Paul Kolnik/New York City Ballet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GILBERT (71%); METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES OPERA (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); BALLET (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); DANCE (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN HARRIS HARBISON (58%); DAWN UPSHAW (57%); JERRY HADLEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000



369 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO FALLS The euro fell to a two-week low against the dollar after a report on consumer prices indicated inflation remained under control. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0143, down from $1.0254 Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EURO (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



370 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
'No Limit But the Sky'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
"Judicial activism is out of control and must be stopped," Steve Forbes said in New Hampshire last month. "Courts that make laws from the bench threaten the foundation of our democracy."
Don't waste it on the voters, Mr. Forbes. Go preach it to the five members of the Supreme Court who are carrying out a radical reshaping of our constitutional structure. 
 The latest example of judicial overreaching came this week. As in three cases decided last June, the five-justice majority read into the Constitution words and a concept that do not appear in its text: "state sovereign immunity."
The target this time was the federal law that prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of age. The law allows victims of discrimination to sue employers for damages. It was extended to employees of state agencies in 1974, but the Supreme Court said this week that they could not sue -- because the states are immune.
The 11th Amendment to the Constitution bars federal courts from hearing lawsuits brought against a state by citizens of another state. It was intended to deal with issues arising under state law, such as contract disputes.
In this case a Florida agency was being sued by Florida citizens, and they were suing to enforce a federal law. So neither the language nor the purpose of the 11th Amendment stood in their way.
Why, then, was Florida immune from the suits? Because of a constitutional doctrine created by the five-justice majority of the Supreme Court in recent years: that the states must have sovereign immunity to maintain their "dignity."
That notion cannot be traced to the Framers of the Constitution. Americans had just won their independence from a Britain whose Parliament claimed absolute sovereignty, and the Framers wanted a republican United States in which rulers were answerable to the people.
Nor did the Framers assign to the Supreme Court, especially, the role of protecting state interests. They sought that protection primarily in the political structure they created: for example, equal state representation in the Senate.
The issue may sound abstract, the business of lawyers and historians. But it is far from that. It goes to the heart of all the politics swirling around judges and their appointment these days.
Conservatives like Steve Forbes denounce "liberal judges" and "activism," coupling the two. Right-wing lobbyists have run campaigns against some of President Clinton's judicial nominees on those grounds. The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Orrin Hatch, has warned repeatedly against "activist judges."
The word activist is a verbal brickbat, without a fixed meaning. But if it suggests judges who invade the province of legislators, then it applies primarily today to judicial conservatives -- as this week's Supreme Court decision showed.
The majority opinion, by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, read in places like a parody of judicial legislating. "Our examination of the legislative record," she wrote, "confirms that Congress's 1974 extension of the age discrimination act to the states was an unwarranted response to a perhaps inconsequential problem."
Whether legislation is warranted is not a question for judges to decide. It is the business of the political branches of government.
The result of this and the other recent federalism cases is to throw a cloud of hypocrisy over conservative statements that judges who construe the Constitution should respect the text, the intention of its Framers, and so on. When the decisions came down last June, Prof. Vincent Blasi of the University of Virginia and Columbia Law Schools said: "After this I want to hear no more about original intention, textualism, strict construction or judicial restraint."
Justice John Paul Stevens, writing for the four dissenters in the Florida case, actually charged the majority with "judicial activism." But that is not likely to give the five pause.
In 1930, when a willful majority was striking down economic legislation as violative of "due process," Justice Holmes wrote in dissent, "I see hardly any limit but the sky" to invalidation of statutes "if they happen to strike a majority of this court as for any reason undesirable." So it is on the federalism issue today. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); IMMUNITY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JUDGES (78%); POLITICS (77%); APPEALS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); DAMAGES (73%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (69%); CONSERVATISM (67%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); ORRIN HATCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



371 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: CONVICTIONS OVERTURNED
Citing procedural errors by the prosecution, an appeals court overturned the murder convictions of 24 pro-government Indians from the state of Chiapas, in a case stemming from a 1997 incident in which 45 unarmed people, mainly women and children, were killed. The victims were sympathizers of the Zapatista rebels. Prosecutors can present their case again, and the accused will remain in jail. Julia Preston (NYT)
 
PERU: U.S. WOMAN ON HUNGER STRIKE
A New York woman convicted as a terrorist has begun a hunger strike, stepping up pressure for a new trial at the start of the fifth year of her life sentence. Jailed as a Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement leader, Lori Berenson, 30, began refusing food Tuesday and is being monitored by doctors, prison authorities said. (Reuters) 

COLOMBIA: ALBRIGHT IN TALKS
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright has arrived in Cartagena for two days of talks with President Andres Pastrana on a trip that will also take her to Panama and Mexico. The talks follow a two-year plan announced by Washington to funnel $1.3 billion in emergency help to Colombia, much of it for military equipment and training to fight leftist guerrilla groups. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
VENEZUELA: U.S. AID SPURNED
The Pentagon has delayed the arrival of two United States ships, on their way to Venezuela with 450 marine and navy engineers to help the country rebuild from floods and landslides. The action came after President Hugo Chavez was quoted as saying he did not want American troops on Venezuelan soil. "Clearly, if they don't want the help, we won't provide it," the Defense Department spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, said. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
ARGENTINA: EMERGENCY PACKAGE
President Fernando de la Rua introduced to Congress an emergency economic package that would allow him to fire thousands of government workers and refinance the public debt. The legislation also requests authority to create special judges to prosecute tax evasion. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: BARAK AND ARAFAT TO MEET
Prime Minister Ehud Barak will take a break from negotiations with Syria to meet with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, in Washington next Thursday, Foreign Minister David Levy announced. Thursday is also the day that Israeli is expected to undertake another large withdrawal from the West Bank. Deborah Sontag (NYT)
 
ISRAEL: WAVE OF ARRESTS
Israeli troops carried out a series of "preventive" arrests in the West Bank based on information that the Islamic Holy War group was planning attacks, the army said. According to its statement, which did not say how many were being held, the arrests were made near Jenin, Hebron and Ramallah. (Reuters)
 
PALESTINIANS: ARREST LINKED TO ABU NIDAL
A key associate of the Abu Nidal guerrilla group, Nimer Halima, has been arrested in Vienna, the police said. The group carried out deadly attacks in Vienna in 1981, 1982 and 1985. Format magazine said Ms. Halima was detained as she tried to withdraw $7.4 million from a bank.
 (Agence France-Presse)
 
KUWAIT: IRAQ-BACKED LEADER HELD
The leader installed in Kuwait after Iraq's August 1990 invasion is being held in Kuwait after flying in from Norway in defiance of a death sentence against him, the airport police said. Col. Alaa Hussein Ali headed the government set up by Baghdad after its invasion of Kuwait in the 1991 gulf war. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
NIGERIA: ISLAMIC LAW EXTENDED
A fifth province, Niger, has announced plans to extend Islamic law, or sharia, after its declaration in Zamfara state last October, officials said. In December the states of Kano, Sokoto and Yobe also announced steps to extend the law to criminal and civil areas, claiming that right under the May 1999 Constitution. (Agence France-Presse)
 
EUROPE
 
GERMANY: KOHL TO TESTIFY
Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl was summoned as the first witness by a parliamentary committee investigating his use of secret funds channeled to his Christian Democratic Party. The panel, which will press Mr. Kohl to identify the donors of more than $1 million during his tenure, begins work next Wednesday, and he is likely to appear soon after that. Roger Cohen (NYT)
 
FINLAND: CLOSE VOTE PREDICTED
Opinion polls for Sunday's first round of balloting for the successor to President Martti Ahtisaari shows former Prime Minister Esko Aho, the Center Party candidate, running even with the Social Democrat, Foreign Minister Tarja Halonen, above. No one is expected to win more than 50 percent of the vote, and a runoff is scheduled for Feb. 6. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
SPAIN: BASQUE LEADER FREED
Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea, 48, a former top commander of the Basque separatist group E.T.A., left prison after the high court freed him on the ground that he had been convicted in France in 1990 on the same terrorism charges he faced in Spain, where he was sent in 1996. Al Goodman (NYT)
 
CROATIA: LEADER EMERGES
Stipe Mesic, 66, Croatia's last representative to the Yugoslavia that broke apart in 1991, has emerged as a narrow leader in the presidential race to succeed the late Franjo Tudjman, according to a poll to be published by the newspaper Jutarnji List today, Reuters reported. The first round of elections will be held Jan. 24. Steven Erlanger (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
CHINA: FALUN GONG SENTENCE
A court has sentenced a retired senior air force official, 74, to 17 years in prison on charges he was an organizer of the Falun Gong spiritual group, according to the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China, based in Hong Kong. Yu Changxin was formerly a pilot and Air Force Command Institute professor. The Ministry of Defense would not confirm the report. Erik Eckholm (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); MEXICO (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); PANAMA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (58%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); MEXICO (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); PANAMA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); ARMED FORCES (87%); SENTENCING (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); ARMIES (74%); TAX FRAUD (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); JUDGES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PRISONS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LANDSLIDES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (61%); RELIGION (60%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



372 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Shares Rise to Record Close On Optimistic Intel Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose sharply yesterday, bolstered by a strong earnings report from the high-technology bellwether Intel and comments from Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, that indicated that interest rates would be rising only slightly.
The Dow Jones industrial average soared 140.55 points, or 1.21 percent, to a closing record of 11,722.98, easily topping Thursday's record. The new high was the third this week and the fourth since the start of 2000. 
 Broader market measures also finished with solid gains. The Nasdaq composite index jumped 107.06 points, or 2.71 percent, to 4,064.27. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 15.47 points, or 1.07 percent, to 1,465.15.
Technology stocks led the Dow and the Nasdaq, with the industry leaders Intel and Microsoft accounting for much of the market's advance.
"We continue to have money coming into the market, and money managers are deciding that technology offers the opportunity for the biggest gains," said Ricky Harrington, technical analyst at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C.
Intel, the computer chip maker, rose sharply after announcing better-than-expected earnings late Thursday. The company cited a surge in sales of personal computers during the back-to-school and holiday shopping period.
The company's strong report and optimistic outlook lifted the stock of Applied Materials, the maker of chip-manufacturing equipment. PC makers like Dell and I.B.M. also advanced as investors anticipated strong profit reports.
Microsoft rose a day after the decision by William H. Gates to relinquish his chief executive job to Steve Ballmer, the president. Analysts said the move would assure continuity in the company's leadership.
Stocks also benefited from rising confidence that inflation was not increasing sharply. A speech by Mr. Greenspan on Thursday night convinced many investors that the Fed was likely to raise rates no more than a quarter of a percentage point at the next Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Feb. 2.
Although rate increases are usually troublesome, market watchers said they were impressed that Mr. Greenspan indicated he would not let inflation get in the way of a surging economy.
The economic data released yesterday once again showed that inflation remained under control. The government said that consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in December, slightly below forecasts.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Bonds Decline
 By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday as rising oil prices and record-high consumer confidence renewed concern that inflation might accelerate and prompt interest-rate increases by the Federal Reserve.
"There are at least two rate hikes coming, so I don't want to get too excited about bonds yet," said Roger Hamilton, an adviser at John Hancock Funds in Boston.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 14/32 to 92 3/4. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.69 percent from 6.65 percent on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (94%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); STEVEN A BALLMER (58%); BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



373 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Grasping Life After War, They Celebrate Rewards

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14

 BODY:
When Edmund Goldenberg looked up one spring afternoon in 1945 and finally saw American soldiers, not Germans, perched on tanks outside the Ebensee concentration camp in Austria, he was a fleshless shadow of the vigorous young man he had been before the war.
At 5 foot 10, he weighed 100 pounds, so weak and emaciated he required a two-week hospital stay. Worse than the physical pain was his unrelievable sorrow. His parents, Polish Jews from Cracow, were dead, his father shot, his mother gassed. Of a family of 300 uncles, aunts and cousins, only 26 emerged from the war alive, he learned later. 
 Yet within weeks, he was not only sheltered and regularly fed in a refugee camp, but also working again as a doctor, for which he had been trained, ministering to other undernourished and heartsick survivors of Ebensee in a makeshift hospital.
"You resume the spirit for life," Dr. Goldenberg said. "This is biologically necessary. You have to start living or you perish. We had people who emotionally or mentally perished."
Like Dr. Goldenberg, more than 230,000 European Jews who survived the concentration camps, or hid during the war or fled to the Soviet Union, found themselves after the Allied victory shorn of homes and families, with no country ready to take them. Along with more than a million non-Jews uprooted by the war or fleeing Communist control in Eastern Europe, they became known as displaced persons. For a period that lasted six years for many, the Jewish refugees were housed in more than 90 camps in Germany and Austria, sometimes, as in the Bergen-Belsen camp, in former German military barracks near the grounds of a concentration camp.
Yet, in those crowded, jostling refugee camps, most of the displaced people found the will to go on, to prepare themselves for lives in the countries to which they would eventually be admitted.
The story of the D.P.'s, as they were called, is one that is little remembered today, but it is a remarkable chapter of the Holocaust era and is the subject of a three-day conference that began here on Friday night: "Life Reborn: Jewish Displaced Persons 1945-1951."
The conference at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel, sponsored by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, has registered 840 people, including onetime refugees who have not seen each other for half a century, and scores of gently graying men and women who were born in the camps.
"So many people think that once you got liberated that was it, you were free, you were happy," said Dr. Goldenberg, now 82 and still practicing, among nursing home residents in Binghamton, N.Y. "Not so. You never forget it. The D.P. camp was a slow revolution of faith. The D.P. camp was trying to re-establish our life, whatever was left."
Testimony at the conference and the artifacts and photographs at concurrent exhibits at the Holocaust museum and the B'nai B'rith Klutznick National Jewish Museum will show that the displaced people, while living on hardtack, Spam and other rations, were able to recreate communities out of the shreds of their lives.
They found lovers -- sometimes ill-fitting matches with whom they shared little but horrible memories -- so they could establish families to replace those they had lost. Among the displays is a white wedding dress that Lilly Friedman, a resident of Bergen-Belsen, patched together out of a German airman's nylon parachute and then passed along to 17 other women for their weddings.
On their own initiative the D.P.s set up schools and nursery schools. In the Bergen-Belsen camp, where the grounds held the corpses of more than 60,000 Jews, 2,000 children were born from 1945 through 1950.
Relief agencies provided assistance and taught trades like carpentry and tailoring. But the D.P.'s refused to be passive and in the chaotic economy of the time, many smuggled contraband cigarettes and chocolate across porous Allied occupied zones to earn money they would need on their journeys to new lands.
Though many said they had yet to forgive God for what he had permitted to happen, they held prayer services and Passover seders. From more-destitute Germans, they bought used cameras to photograph their new children and porcelain figurines to add a touch of beauty to their lives. And among compatriots who understood in their marrow the anguish they had been through, they made friends that often substituted for family.
"When you talk about the Holocaust, the survivor is looked down upon as a victim," said Rositta Ehrlich Kenigsberg of North Miami, Fla., who was born in the Binder michel camp in Austria. "This is the time when the survivors were in charge of their own fate. In the aftermath of the Holocaust, to pick up all the pieces and bring life into a world when they witnessed only death, is quite a great act of faith."
The Holocaust museum features evidence of the craving to return to a semblance of normal life, to reclaim personal and occupational dignity. Dr. Goldenberg's wooden stethoscope, the boxing gloves Abraham Malnik used in camp matches, a child's fur coat made for Miriam Levitt -- now a pediatrician in Scarsdale, N.Y. -- by a father who wanted to keep his daughter warm on the journey to America, a poster advertising a performance by an operatic troupe.
"We went from camp to camp and gave concerts to people who didn't know what opera was," said Rena Berliner, who was able to sing operatic and Yiddish songs after losing her entire family except for her mother, who hid out with her. "They were absolutely enthralled, in seventh heaven."
"After losing everybody, people still had a will to live," said Mrs. Berliner, now a 74-year-old grandmother in Rego Park, Queens. "That doesn't mean I have forgotten. I live with it everyday of my life. I think of my sister. I mourn my father. But life goes on."
The camps for those displaced by the war were hardly idyllic, especially in the early months. Some residents were penned behind barbed wire and needed passes to leave, as though they had committed crimes. In many cases, they were mixed in with the Latvians, Lithuanians, Estonians, Poles and Hungarians who had helped the Germans round up and slaughter Jews. Gen. George S. Patton referred to "the Jewish type of D.P." as a "subhuman species."
The D.P.'s also had excruciating waits for resettlement. For political reasons, the British made it hard for them to get into Palestine, and many in the United States Congress were reluctant to relax immigration quotas if it meant taking in penniless Jewish families.
But the children who were born in the D.P. camps now speak of the era as a heroic time, a sharp contrast to the degradation and powerlessness their parents experienced during the war. Menachem Z. Rosensaft's parents, Josef and Hadassah Bimko Rosensaft, were leaders of Bergen-Belsen, drove hard bargains with the British about their treatment of the refugees and made sure 100 war orphans were settled in Palestine.
"It's remarkable because they were no longer willing to be a victim for one moment more than necessary," said Mr. Rosensaft, a Manhattan lawyer who was born in Bergen-Belsen in 1948 and is one of the conference organizers.
And Dorit Mandelbaum, a Manhattan painter whose parents, Auschwitz survivors, gave birth to her in the Landsberg camp near Munich in 1946, has a whimsically bittersweet way of looking back at her family's refugee experience.
"The D.P. camps," she said, "were the last Jewish shtetls in Europe."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rena Berliner and others displaced by World War II sang opera in post-war camps for refugees. Her husband, Moses, was also a camp resident. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); The father of Dr. Miriam Levitt, a pediatrician in Scarsdale, N.Y., made her a fur coat in a refugee camp for her journey to the United States. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); AUSTRIA (88%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); AUSTRIA (88%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REFUGEES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); HOLOCAUST (89%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); FAMILY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); NURSING HOMES (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: EDMUND GOLDENBERG (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



374 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Agreement Is Signed on Return Of 84,000 Acres to Ute Indians

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: MOAB, Utah, Jan. 14

 BODY:
As good fortune for Utah, it might not equal Salt Lake City's winning the right to stage the 2002 winter Olympics, but it seemed it was not far off.
In a whirlwind tour that began on a Ute Indian reservation in Fort Duchesne and ended here along the Colorado River, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson announced two major initiatives today that addressed longstanding land issues in the state. 
 First, he signed an agreement to return 84,000 acres that the federal government took from the Utes 84 years ago for the land's oil shale reserves. Later, he flew here to announce that the federal government was preparing to remove 10.6 tons of uranium waste from an abandoned mine site. The uranium is polluting the Colorado River and ground water.
Crowds cheered heartily at both announcements, a sign that President Clinton's hoped-for environmental legacy might gain traction in this most-Republican state.
But residual benefits of both initiatives may be a long way off. Congressional action is required on each, meaning it could be several years before the Utes realize any profits from mining on their land and even longer before the first load of contaminated dirt is trucked away.
The Utes lost land adjoining their 4.5 million-acre reservation in 1916, when the federal government sought fuel reserves for its naval fleet. No mining ever took place. But Energy Department officials say the land could generate a fortune from gas reserves for a tribe that suffers enormous poverty and high unemployment.
"We haven't done any real evaluation yet," O. Roland McCook, a tribe official, said after he and Mr. Richardson signed papers to begin the process of transferring the land. "We're going to do it as soon as we can."
As part of the agreement that links the two initiatives, the Utes will contribute 8.5 percent of any mining royalties to the uranium cleanup, with the federal government paying for the rest.
But several hurdles remain, including the transfer of authority over the site from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to the Energy Department. Then, Congress has to set aside money for the cleanup. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (93%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UTAH, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); MINE & QUARRY RECLAMATION (74%); WINTER OLYMPICS (73%); ROYALTIES (71%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (70%); MINES & MINING (69%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (56%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



375 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Plans to Begin Rocket Program

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea

 BODY:
Having succeeded in making computer memory chips, consumer electronics and automobiles, South Korea has set its sights on a far loftier goal: conquering outer space.
The government plans to develop a rocket capable of ferrying satellites into orbit within the next five years at a cost that space agency officials estimate at $500 million to $1 billion, although independent experts said the cost could run as high as several billion dollars. 
 The project, still in the planning stages, represents South Korea's hope to join the elite ranks of other space-faring nations and free itself from dependence on other countries to launch its satellites and provide military surveillance.
But United States officials have reservations about South Korea's ambitions, fearing that the project may not be economically viable, and that the rocket technology could be exported to countries who may use it for military applications. South Korea says that the project would be sufficiently financed, and that the rocket technology would not be suitable for military purposes.
Announcing the project last month, President Kim Dae Jung said that South Korea would build "a working satellite-launching facility by the year 2005, constructed with Korean technology and equipment."
He promised that the government would allocate enough money for the rocket program and for research and development in other high technology fields, including electronics and computer software.
South Korean space agency officials said they hope to build a world-class space program, and they have grand visions of one day working with the United States and other countries on projects like a reusable space shuttle and an international space station.
South Korea's decision to develop a satellite launching station reflects the dramatic comeback of this proud nation following the Asian financial crisis, which had caused the government to shelve the project as too expensive.
Although little is known about South Korea's rocket technology, some satellite experts believe that the country could produce its own satellite-launching vehicles.
But security experts and Western officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, expressed concern that the technology that South Korea hopes to develop to to launch satellites could also be used to make long-range ballistic missiles.
Without the proper checks and balances, they said, other countries could view the space project as having military applications, and an arms race might begin in northeast Asia.
"This type of satellite rocket technology is transferable to military applications, and other countries in the region are certainly going to view South Korea's program through this prism," said a United States government official who monitors missiles and weapons of mass destruction.
"One of the reasons we are not fully pleased about countries' starting up space launch programs that are not economically viable is that they could export the launching vehicle to someone else who has no intention of using it for satellites," the official said.
Under a 1979 accord with the United States, South Korea agreed to limit the range of its missiles to about 100 miles and promised to abide by treaty rules restricting the spread of nuclear weapons.
South Korea has been seeking permission from the United States to increase the range of its ballistic missiles after North Korea test-fired a medium-range missile in 1998 that flew over the Japanese mainland and into the ocean. At the time, North Korea claimed that the test launch was a multistage rocket designed to put a satellite into orbit.
Last year, North Korea threatened to test-fire a second missile with a much longer range but abandoned those plans after international protests and after the United States agreed to lift economic sanctions against the Communist country.
Although the United States recently agreed to increase the missile range limits for South Korea to up to 180 miles, Korean officials want the United States to raise the missile range to 300 miles.
Choi Dong-Whan, president of the Korean Aerospace Research Institute, the government space agency, said in an interview that Korea's space-launching rocket program would be economically viable and that the project would not have military applications.
The space agency plans to develop a leaky fuel propellant rocket system that is not useful for intercontinental ballistic missiles, which typically employ a solid propellant, he said.
The South Korean rocket is expected to operate at an altitude between 375 miles and 437 miles and initially would carry small satellites used for mapping, coastline surveillance and weather forecasting, Mr. Choi said. South Korea would continue to rely on foreign firms to launch heavier communications satellites that are placed in orbit, he said.
"We don't want to depend on other countries anymore," Mr. Choi said. "We pay a lot of money to outside countries and we have to wait for launching time which is dependent on their schedule and wastes our time and budget."
Space agency officials said that South Korea needs to place at least 19 new satellites in orbit by the year 2025 and that the country can build its own satellite launching pad for about the same cost of paying a foreign firm to launch four or five satellites.
South Korea now has six satellites, three for communications and broadcasting and three for scientific research, and all carried into orbit abroad by foreign-made rockets.
If its rocket is cost-efficient, South Korea could also use the technology to compete in the lucrative commercial satellite launching business.
The highly competitive industry is currently dominated by three major players: the Boeing Company's Delta rockets and Lockheed Martin's Atlas rockets, both from the United States, and Ariane rockets, made by the European consortium Arianespace. Russia and China have small portions of the market.
But space experts said that South Korea faces considerable challenges building a launching vehicle made solely with its own technology, particularly in integrating the various systems of the rocket.
Despite years of development and billions of dollars in expenditures, many advanced countries still struggle to master rocket technology.
Last month, Japan said that it was abandoning its troubled H-2 rocket project after a series of costly failures, including the loss of an H-2 rocket that plunged into the Pacific Ocean shortly after takeoff in November.
Japanese, which had invested $4.14 billion in the program since 1986, is still investigating the cause of the rocket failure.
Still, a growing number of countries are announcing plans to build their own satellites or develop rockets to launch them, partly for the prestige that comes with such capability but also for the possible commercial and technological applications.
"More and more countries are realizing that space is really the next frontier and not just for exploration," said Duane Brown, a spokesman for National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the United States. "It's expensive and takes a lot of hard work and trial-and-error, but space has become a global venture that makes a lot of sense."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: South Korea must depend on others to launch its satellites, like one on a rocket launched at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California last month. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); SPACE STATIONS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



376 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Rise Just 0.2%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
In the latest evidence that inflation remains in check, consumer prices rose only modestly in December even as the economy roared toward a record for uninterrupted expansion, Labor Department figures showed yesterday.
A lower-than-expected rise in the Consumer Price Index of 0.2 percent and reassuring comments Thursday evening by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average to this week's third record close. 
 But after the government's report on inflation and other data on industrial output and inventories, word came in midmorning that consumers may have become unduly optimistic. That could mean continuation of a breakneck spending pace that the Fed has been trying to arrest.
That news pushed interest rates, which had initially subsided, higher for the day and left economists less convinced that the central bank can avoid repeated increases in its short-term rate target, now 5 1/2 percent. It is all but certain, analysts say, that the Fed will decide on a quarter-point rise at its two-day meeting at the beginning of February.
Last month's rise in consumer prices lifted the 1999 inflation rate to 2.7 percent, with the acceleration from 1998's 1.6 percent reflecting a sharp jump in the price of oil. Energy prices surged 13.4 percent last year after falling 8.8 percent in 1998. But with the volatile energy and food components set aside, the so-called core inflation rate last year was 1.9 percent, the lowest since 1965.
In a statement with the report, Labor Secretary Alexis M. Herman said the economy was "strong and growing and should be nominated for best picture" at the Academy Awards. Analysts were also encouraged, saying medical care appeared to be the only unsettling major sector, assuming that oil prices stop rising. Medical costs advanced 0.4 percent for the second consecutive month and 3.7 percent for all of 1999.
"It's a pretty reassuring report," said Edward F. McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. He added that while Mr. Greenspan would no doubt tighten credit another notch or two, his speech to the Economic Club of New York indicated he was not "on the warpath."
That stance is perceived despite an increase of 0.9 percent in inventories in November, which suggested that the economy's growth rate could approach 6 percent for the quarter. Analysts hope that much of the rise will prove temporary, reflecting stocks built in anticipation of possible Year 2000 computer failures.
In a separate tally yesterday, the University of Michigan said its index of consumer sentiment soared to 111.4 at the mid-January reading, the highest in its 20-year history, from 105.4 at the end of December. Although this unnerved the bond market, index sponsors said the rise might have been magnified by relief that no computer disasters occurred.
Next month the economy, which has been growing without interruption since April 1991, is expected to break the longevity record for a business expansion set in the 1960's.
One of the few sectors not suffering some strain is American industry, where output grew 2.2 percent last year, mostly in technology equipment. Output rose 0.4 percent in December, with plants operating at 81.3 percent of capacity, below the historic average of 82.1 percent.
Housing and food and beverages were each up 0.1 percent last month; for 1999, housing rose 2.2 percent, with food and beverages up 2 percent. Transportation climbed 0.7 percent in December and 5.4 percent for 1999, mainly reflecting the surge in fuel prices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Industrial Production"
The graphs shows the change since July 1998. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRICE INCREASES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



377 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Tourism Diamond in the Rough;
South Africa's Beauty and Its Beasts Are the Draw

BYLINE: By HENRI E. CAUVIN

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Jan. 14

 BODY:
South Africa's name is famous around the globe, a legacy of the apartheid era that etched the country into the conscience of the world but left it a foreboding and unfamiliar place to many of the travelers it would now like to attract.
Talk to travel agents in the United States or Britain who specialize in South Africa, and they report the same queries from curious but confused customers: Is there toilet paper in the bathrooms? Are the roads paved? Do the people speak English? Are there restaurants? Do we have to bring our own food? 
 Anne Bellamy, vice president of African Travel in Glendale, Calif., has heard them all. "Some people think all they eat is fresh elephant meat," Ms. Bellamy said.
Determined to dispel the myths, South Africa has turned to Madison Avenue. This month, the country makes its first major foray into the world of international marketing with an $18 million promotional campaign aimed at the United States, Britain, Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands. Its emphasis is on enjoying South Africa's exotic outdoor attractions and urbanity rather than experiencing the opening of a door to a new multiracial democracy.
In the United States, where travel to South Africa jumped almost 25 percent from 1997, to more than 166,000 trips in 1998, the effort will focus on New York, Los Angeles and Miami, the three markets where South Africa thinks it has the best chance of drawing far more tourists.
For a country as big as the United States, the numbers are small, but the already increasing interest from the world's richest nation gives South Africa hope. "It won't be easy, but we're really making a start," the country's minister of environment and tourism, Valli Moosa, said.
By world standards, the campaign is modest, forsaking television in favor of more affordable media like newspapers, magazines and billboards. But for a country that until now had placed just a handful of ads overseas, it is a huge step into the media age.
The advertising giant Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, a unit of the WPP Group, was hired to develop the campaign. And the firm's Johannesburg office, Ogilvy & Mather Rightford, has spent the last 18 months working with the country's tourism industry to design a strategy that will try to turn tourism into the humming economic engine that so many in South Africa believe it can be.
To listen to the leaders of this new democracy talk about tourism, nothing less than the future of the nation is at stake. Widespread unemployment, poverty and crime have made employment one of the government's highest priorities.
With just over 3 percent of the South African work force directly employed by the tourism industry, and another 4 percent employed by related industries, the tourism business here still has a long way to go before it overtakes the country's mines, whose mineral and metal riches built modern South Africa. Mining accounts for just under 11 percent of the nation's jobs, down from 13.25 percent a decade ago but still the economy's biggest single source of jobs.
The tourism minister said he was confident that in just a couple of years more than 300,000 additional tourism jobs could be created in this country of about 44 million people. "We've reached a point now where there is a consensus in South African society that tourism must be regarded as a priority," Mr. Moosa said.
It was not always so. For many years, South Africa was ostracized because of its repressive racist regime. Promoting South Africa, particularly in the 1970's and 1980's, would have been a waste of time.
That changed in 1994 when Nelson Mandela was elected president. With little effort, tourism took off, albeit from almost nothing. It did not take long, however, for it to taper off, as the curious came and went, and not all that many people followed.
"You've got to build for the future, and South Africa did not," said Malcom Peasnall, the director of the Independent Traveler, a British agency that saw its bookings to South Africa surge from none during the apartheid era, when the agency refused to book trips to the country, to 500 a year immediately after Mr. Mandela came to power, before leveling off at about 1,000 trips a year. "South Africa got a lot for free, but now they've got to pay."
Glenn van Heerden, deputy chairman of Avis South Africa, the regional franchisee for Avis Rent a Car System, and deputy chairman of the country's Tourism Business Council, looks back on the days after the election and wonders where the country might have been today if tourism had had the attention then that it has now. "We probably had a golden opportunity to launch something then," he said, "but it was obviously and regretfully not a priority."
Now, he says, the industry and the government have realized that the country's vast potential will begin to be exploited only if they take their message to the people of the world -- to the people with the money and the motivation to make the trip. "Nothing will sell in the supermarket unless it's on the shelf when you go in," Mr. van Heerden said.
That is a welcome message to the travel agents around the world who, until now, have found themselves alone in their struggle to steer tourists to South Africa.
"We've been playing the role of educating people about Africa as a whole, geography lessons, cultural lessons, anthropology lessons, the whole gamut," Ms. Bellamy said.
Penny Waddell, a minister from a suburb of Atlanta, was among the untutored. For years, her husband had been trying to coax her into joining him on a trip to southern Africa, where he had long dreamed of hunting. But she would not do it.
She was scared of South Africa, with its turbulent history -- fearful of how her little blue-eyed, blonde daughters would be treated in a country with a history of racial tensions. But last year, her husband's lobbying finally won her over, or at least wore her down. "I was terrified," Mrs. Waddell, 44, said. "I was so afraid that I almost canceled the whole thing."
She is happy now that she did not. "It was just absolutely amazing," she said. "The people were so friendly and so helpful and so warm that I just wanted to stay there forever."
The new campaign is aimed at making South Africa an easier sell. That will be a challenge, and not just because crime is a real problem here. Less serious, but no less formidable a challenge is convincing people to fly 15 hours or more from the United States or nearly 11 hours from London, to South Africa.
For inspiration, South Africa has looked across the Indian Ocean to Australia. Far from the lucrative North American and European markets, Australia has nevertheless managed to make international tourism a major part of its economy.
Like South Africa, Australia knows it is never going to attract as many visitors as Spain or France. But no country save the United States makes more money per tourist than Australia, because its visitors are almost always coming from afar, which means that, on average, they stay longer than tourists any place else. (More than 75 percent of visitors to South Africa come from other African countries; among non-African nations, Britain is South Africa's biggest patron, with 321,000 visitors in 1998, or 5.6 percent of South Africa's total.)
South Africa, however, plans to spend only a fraction of the more than $85 million a year that Australia sets aside for tourism promotion. "We can't spend that kind of money, and we'll never be able to because we have pressing needs in this country," said Sheryl Ozinsky, the tourism manager in Cape Town. "We have to be creative in everything we do."
The innovations include repainting 50 London taxis in the colors of the South African flag and flying the cabbies to South Africa for a look so they can chat it up with passengers back in the West End.
"We tried to do it in New York, too, but they won't let you," said Dale Pretorius, the assistant general manager of marketing for the South African Tourism Board. "The cabs there have got to be yellow."
The heart of the campaign will be waged with glossy inserts and print ads in upscale magazines like Conde Nast Traveler in the United States, Der Spiegel in Germany and Gente Viaggi in Italy, publications most likely to be read by the sort of people who South Africa is convinced will visit if given the right message.
Figuring out that message was not easy for a country that is still figuring itself out, said Nunu Ntshingila, one of the Ogilvy account managers who oversaw much of the day-to-day work on the campaign.
For example, when work started on the glossy insert, Mr. Mandela seemed to be the obvious choice to grace the cover. But when the ad managers test-marketed the brochures, they discovered they were wrong. Beloved as Mr. Mandela is, his image did not evoke thoughts of carefree days spent on the beach, strolling through a vineyard or hiking around a game reserve.
"It was amazing how it was interpreted internationally," Ms. Ntshingila said. "Some people saw it and expected some sort of political message."
So Mr. Mandela was moved inside the brochure and a panoramic shot of Cape Town's majestic Table Mountain took his place.
Even then, it is not so simple. Much of the country's charm lies in its wildlife and ecosystem, from the whales and penguins off Cape Town to the lions and elephants in Kruger National Park in the northeast of the country. Yet a unique element of South Africa's appeal, especially to visitors from the United States, is its modern infrastructure, unmatched in Africa, with first-class hotels, fine restaurants, good roads and airports and excellent private hospitals.
The campaign is aimed at making sure people see, or at least sense, both sides of South Africa. "Where the world's most intelligent creatures take their breaks," reads one ad that features a sun-splashed photograph of a whale.
"It's been a very tricky balance," Ms. Ntshingila said, "because we don't want to lose the African heritage, but we want to communicate the more sophisticated side of South Africa."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: An ad promoting South Africa as an international tourist destination. About $18 million has been devoted to the campaign. (Joao Silva/Sygma for The New York Times)(Great Stock Library)
 
Chart/Globe: "Luring Tourists From Far Away"
South Africa hopes to emulate Australia's success at getting big-spending tourists from the United States, Europe and Asia to travel long distances for their vacations.
 
New York-Sydney
Distance: 9,900 miles
Flight Time: 20 hours, 40 minutes
(Requires One Stop)
 
New York-Johannesburg
Distance: 7,800 miles
Flight Time: 14 hours, 35 minutes
(Nonstop)
 
The chart shows the number of short-term visitors to Austrailia and South Africa, from North America, Europe, and Asia in 1998.
*Includes Australia and New Zealand

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (56%); WPP (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (83%); WPP PLC (56%); OGILVY & MATHER RIGHTFORD SEARLE-TRIPP & MAKIN (PTY) LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SOUTH AFRICA TOURISM (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); LABOR FORCE (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



378 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Deal Struck to Save Upper East Side Hospital

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Ending an odd and acrimonious power struggle over the future of the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, the hospital on the Upper East Side has struck a deal to be taken over by Lenox Hill Hospital and continue to offer everything from eye surgery to tummy tucks.
Under the terms of the agreement, Lenox Hill would become a sponsor of the smaller hospital, which would retain its name and its site on East 64th Street between Second and Third Avenues. Lenox Hill in turn would get use of the center's 17 operating rooms and other facilities, and gain patient referrals from the center. No money was exchanged in the deal, which requires a judge's approval, and Lenox Hill would pay for any future improvements or new services at its new subsidiary. 
 Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, which started in 1869 to serve the poor, has fallen on hard financial times in recent years, hammered by competition in its core business and strained by managed care. Last March, the directors put the hospital's main and two adjacent buildings up for sale, hoping to fetch more than $40 million. With that money, the directors hoped to open outpatient clinics in poor neighborhoods around the city. It already runs a bustling clinic in Harlem.
The hospital was not at a loss for suitors -- interested hospitals included Mount Sinai N.Y.U. Medical Center and Health System, Continuum Health Partners, and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Last May, the cancer center announced its intention to buy the main building.
Medical residents at Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat immediately filed suit against the hospital's administrators in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, charging that the hospital's plans would leave them unemployed because the building would have been absorbed by the cancer center. They also argued that the community needed the hospital's services.
Further, the state attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, filed court papers opposing the proposed sale. The attorney general has the right to oversee the charitable assets of nonprofit corporations, including hospitals like Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat.
Thus ensued an ugly battle between the doctors and the hospital directors, with the former accusing the latter of mismanagement and arguing that the mission of the hospital -- to serve the poor -- was being undermined. Justice Bernard J. Fried of State Supreme Court ultimately denied the hospital board's request to sell the buildings.
In his decision, Justice Fried essentially sided with the doctors, arguing that the hospital's directors had not given enough weight to the value of the hospital as a medical institution when they decided to sell its building. The directors will no longer have a role at the hospital under the new agreement.
"Lenox Hill is a very fine institution and the board is very hopeful that the new entity will be able to carry out our goal of serving underserved areas of the city," said Lindsay C. Herkness, the chairman of the hospital's board. A lawyer for the doctors, Scott Himes, echoed the sentiment. "This will save the institution," he said.
The deal with Lenox Hill is a blow to Sloan-Kettering, which was eager to gain the new space. "From our perspective, Lenox Hill has played a constructive role in this debate," said Christine Westerman, a Sloan-Kettering spokeswoman. "However, we are going to evaluate what this means for us and our clinical needs."
She added that she did not know whether the hospital would seek to block the action, which will be presented to Judge Fried on Jan. 24 for final approval.
"We participated fully in the process," said Juanita Scarlett, a spokeswoman for the attorney general's office, "and we are happy with the process." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH PARTNERS INC (54%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); CANCER (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



379 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Merger Talks By SmithKline And Glaxo

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 14

 BODY:
Two British pharmaceutical giants, SmithKline Beechham P.L.C. and Glaxo Wellcome P.L.C., are near agreement on an $80.7 billion merger that would create the world's largest drug maker, executives close to the talks said here tonight.
A deal, which could be announced as early as Monday, comes almost two years after merger talks between the two companies collapsed in a dispute over who would control the combined company. 
 That stumbling block was cleared in large part in early December, when Jan Leschly, the chief executive of SmithKline, who had been seen as largely responsible for the management stalemate, announced that he planned to retire in April.
"We've been expecting this deal would be back on the cards since the talks fell apart the first time," said Franc Gregori, an analyst with BNP Paribas in London. "You've got the making of a supercompany that will have critical economies of scale."
Also propelling the deal forward was the announcement on Thursday by Warner-Lambert that it was in talks with Pfizer over a possible merger, upsetting an earlier agreement between Warner-Lambert and American Home Products. Last month, Pharmacia & Upjohn and Monsanto announced a merger deal.
Companies that lack sufficient research and marketing muscle are under pressure to seek partners, and analysts expect the furious pace of consolidation in the industry to accelerate even more. Novartis, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Roche and American Home Products are considered likely to seek deals soon.
For Glaxo and SmithKline, a combination may give them the size to try to right laggard sales and marketing miscues as well as vault them into a class of their own. A combined Glaxo-SmithKline would have $17.88 billion in drug sales, based on 1998 data, towering over the current No. 1, Aventis, with $10.8 billion in sales, according to I.M.S. Health, an industry consultant.
Glaxo's top-selling drugs include Imitrex, an anti-migraine treatment, and medicines for respiratory ailments and for HIV. SmithKline makes Avandia, a leading diabetes drug, and Paxil, a leading antidepressant.
Though both Glaxo and SmithKline have extensive operations in the United States, a successful merger would mean that of the top five drug companies, only one would be American: a combined Pfizer and Warner-Lambert. Two years ago, three of the five largest drug companies were American. Still, a combined Glaxo-SmithKline would control only 7.5 percent of the world market.
Glaxo's chief executive, Sir Richard Sykes, "believes vehemently that bigger is better," said James Culverwell, an analyst with Merrill Lynch in London. "To him, Pfizer-Warner Lambert changes the competitive landscape. He doesn't want to lose out."
Indeed, in an interview in November, when Pfizer made a hostile bid for Warner Lambert, Sir Richard said that a combination of American Home and Warner Lambert "would not have had a major impact on our business, but if you get Pfizer and Warner Lambert, you are talking about 7 to 8 percent market share, a big number." Noting what a combined Pfizer-Warner Lambert could spend on research, he added, "I think it should be a worry to anybody that one company is spending between $3 billion and $4 billion a year."
Today, SmithKline and Glaxo representatives confirmed that they were in talks, though neither would disclose any specifics except to say that any deal would be a merger of equals. Glaxo is a much larger company, however, and the combined company is expected to be divided about 60-40 in favor of Glaxo shareholders.
Executives close to the talks said the two companies planned to work out the final details over the weekend. They stressed that as with any deal of this size, the companies could still decide to abandon the effort.
One issue that has been agreed upon, executives close to the talks said, is that Sir Richard would become chairman of the combined company, while Jean-Pierre Garnier, chief operating officer of SmithKline, would become chief executive. Within a few years, the executives, Mr. Garnier would be expected to succeed Sir Richard.
Analysts said that Sir Richard and Mr. Garnier were much more compatible as a management team than Sir Richard and Mr. Leschly, and that now the deal had to be completed, if for no other reason than to save face. "There is a real fear of failure if a deal doesn't get done now," Mr. Gregori of BNP Paribas said.
Investors applauded the possibility of a tie-up. Shares of SmithKline rose 56 pence, or 7 percent, to 847 pence. Shares of Glaxo rose 78 pence, or 4.5 percent, to 1.8. SmithKline's American depository receipts rose $3.9375, to $70, and Glaxo's gained $2, to $60.
The Financial Times and USA Today reported today that the companies were in talks.
Would investors have fared better if the companies had completed a deal in 1998? Mr. Culverwell, the Merrill Lynch analyst, said he did not think so. "If a deal had been done two years ago, the terms would be very different," he said. "It would have been out of desperation. SmithKline has more broadly based growth now. And Glaxo was in the throes of several patents expiring at the time. And to be frank, this time around, with Leschly leaving, it's just more straightforward." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (96%); GSK (LSE) (96%); BIOC (EGX) (96%); PFZ (LSE) (85%); PFE (NYSE) (85%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); SNY (NYSE) (58%); SANF (BIT) (58%); SAN (PAR) (58%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (58%); NVS (NYSE) (58%); NOVN (SWX) (58%); BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%); MON (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PLC (SBH); GLAXO WELLCOME PLC (GLX) GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (96%); PFIZER INC (85%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); ELI LILLY & CO (58%); SANOFI SA (58%); NOVARTIS AG (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (56%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (55%); MONSANTO CO (55%); IMS HEALTH INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PLC (SBH); GLAXO WELLCOME PLC (GLX)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (92%); MERGERS (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



380 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
The Greatest? Give Mayor A Mirror

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
MAYOR Rudolph W. Giuliani gave what may have been his last "State of the City" address on Thursday, and it was clear from the paeans to himself that he has no doubts about his place in history. But New Yorkers not blessed with his omniscience are only starting to decide where he ranks.
You can make a case for his being the city's greatest mayor of the 20th century, although you would get plenty of argument. Fiorello La Guardia not only did more but managed to endear himself to the public. Mayor Giuliani probably set a record for making enemies. 
 "Among 20th century mayors, I would rank La Guardia first, Giuliani second and Koch third," said Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor of history at Columbia University and the editor of "The Encyclopedia of New York City."
"La Guardia led the city from its single worst period through recovery and helped unite the city," Dr. Jackson said. "Giuliani's main achievement has been an attitudinal shift. For the first time in half a century, New York seems to have a bright future, and he deserves at least some of the credit. The irony is that a lot of people love what's happened to the city but don't love Giuliani."
Mr. Giuliani likes to take credit for the city's economic revival, but that has been due in no small part to the national boom and the astonishing bull market. His own economic initiatives have not been epochal.
He hasn't built anything like the bridges, roads and parks of La Guardia. He has proposed a railroad tunnel and a new subway -- projects that he brought up again on Thursday -- but his most lasting monument may be a stadium, and maybe only a minor-league one. He hasn't given liberals ambitious new programs, and he hasn't pleased conservatives by radically reducing taxes or shrinking New York's government.
He has, though, restrained the city's spending and fulfilled his campaign pledge to restore order in the streets. Historians may debate how much of the drop in crime is a result of his policies, and at what cost to racial relations it has been achieved. But there's not much question that his emphasis on policing and quality-of-life initiatives have helped stem the flight of businesses and the middle class. The city has flourished thanks to the lifting of what was essentially a crime-and-grime tax.
"Giuliani will be remembered with La Guardia as one of the two greatest New York mayors of the 20th century," said Fred Siegel, a senior fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute and author of "The Future Once Happened Here," a book analyzing the modern history of New York.
"Like La Guardia," Dr. Siegel said, "Giuliani took a city that was down and out and revived its spirit and sense of its own worth. Both men crusaded to make government accountable, and both believed in the social contract that says citizens have responsibilities as well as rights."
Mr. Giuliani's welfare reforms, for good or ill, will probably be his greatest legacy along with the reduction in crime. The welfare rolls have been almost halved, to about 600,000, which is roughly the reverse of what happened during the mayoralty of John V. Lindsay in the late 1960's.
FOR now, Mr. Giuliani's welfare reforms seem to be going fairly smoothly. But then, during the boom of the 1960's, it seemed like a great idea to expand the welfare rolls, and Mr. Lindsay was lionized by journalists. Today he's a contender for the title of worst mayor of the century.
"I put Lindsay at the bottom," said Dr. Siegel, "below even Jimmy Walker and Abe Beame and David Dinkins. Lindsay wasn't incompetent or foolish or corrupt, but he was actively destructive. The city lost 700,000 jobs in his wake."
Mr. Giuliani might be similarly reviled one day by revisionist historians. But it's also possible that he'll one day move up above even La Guardia, whose achievements are not aging so well.
La Guardia rescued New York from bankruptcy and Tammany Hall, but he also left it with higher taxes, larger bureaucracies, more entrenched civil servants, rent control, public housing projects and many, many debts. The New York style of big government, pursued by his predecessors and once copied by the rest of the country, is falling out of fashion.
Mr. Giuliani's reputation may be more secure because he has been undoing his predecessors' mistakes instead of building grand public works and starting new government programs. There's less to go wrong later. The greatest mayor may turn out to be the one who did the least harm. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); WRITERS (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); CONSERVATISM (67%); LIBERALISM (67%); CRIME RATES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



381 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC CHALLENGER;
Bradley's Appeal Competes With a Frequently Gruff Side

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Jan. 14

 BODY:
Former Senator Bill Bradley often opens his campaign events around Iowa with a story about a prickly waitress and two late-night diners.
"How about a kind word?" one of the diners asks the waitress. She ignores him. When she returns, gruffly tossing down their plates, the man asks again, "What about that kind word?" This time she relents. "If I were you," she growls, "I wouldn't eat them eggs." 
 The story is Mr. Bradley's lighthearted way of telling audiences he thinks it is high time for greater honesty in American politics. But it might well be about the potential for pitfalls in straight talk.
In the race for the Democratic presidential nomination, Bill Bradley has tried to cast himself as his party's truth-teller. He talks about intractable pockets of poverty at a time when the economy is soaring. He rails against the corrupting influence of big money in political campaigns. He laments the persistence of racial injustice.
But in style as well as substance, he often resembles the rough-edged waitress of his story. He can be curt and uncommunicative. He sometimes ignores questions he considers silly or intrusive. Former colleagues say he is aloof. And as he has shown in encounters with his lone rival for the nomination, Vice President Al Gore, he can be sarcastic and condescending when attacked.
"Let me explain to you, Al, how the private sector works, O.K.?" a patronizing Mr. Bradley told the vice president at a debate earlier this month.
To his supporters, such traits are simply a part of being "a different kind of politician," one they deem more honest, thoughtful and trustworthy than Mr. Gore. To them, Mr. Bradley's bristly ways are evidence that he can see through, and rise above, typical politics.
"I'm running on the radical premise that you can say what you believe, and win," he frequently tells audiences.
But to the undecided voters who are vital to his success, Mr. Bradley runs the risk of being viewed as little more than surly, as someone whose attacks on regular politics are criticism of regular voters.
And so he tries daily to balance his rough-hewn ways with his folksy humor, looking to charm voters even as he offers them tough medicine.
Sometimes it works just right:
Mr. Bradley is easily annoyed by boom mikes that hang in his face, and he seemed particularly irritated by a fluffy gray one that kept flitting about his lectern during a speech in Mason City, Iowa, on Wednesday. But rather than have his aides clear the sound man away, as they often do, he interrupted his delivery to introduce "this little bird that has been following me." He then began dodging around the flustered sound man, drawing laughs from the audience.
And sometimes it falls short:
This fall at St. Anselms College, a Catholic school in New Hampshire, Mr. Bradley opened the floor to questions with a little joke. "I'll call on you, and if I don't like the question I'll just point to the next person," he said, to laughter. "Wouldn't you like it if politicians just told you what they think?"
But among the first questions was one he clearly did not like: As president, would he veto a ban on late-term abortions? Mr. Bradley, a strong advocate of abortion rights, curtly answered yes. And then, without pause or explanation, he turned away and said, "Next question." For several seconds, an awkward silence hung over the packed room.
In running as a "different politician" who lives by higher ethical standards, Mr. Bradley has created other pitfalls for himself.
For instance, when asked last week whether he would release the letters he had written to federal agencies as a senator, he virtually invited reporters to check his Senate files. And without being asked, he offered that he would be surprised if they found evidence that he had ever intervened on regulatory matters.
Sure enough, three letters quickly emerged showing that he had sought to help New Jersey companies that had contributed to his campaigns. And while all seemed typical of the letters senators write on behalf of constituents, Mr. Bradley came under criticism, largely because of the way he had handled the question in the first place.
Mr. Bradley's style may have created the most problems for him during nationally televised joint appearances with Mr. Gore, in which he has frequently returned fire with scornful sarcasm. Last month, for instance, he all but sneered when the vice president suggested that they both give up campaign commercials. "Al, that's good," Mr. Bradley said, looking at Mr. Gore's outstretched hand. "I like that hand. But the answer is no."
Mr. Bradley's aides say his barbed remarks then and in a later debate thrilled his supporters, many of whom have been angered by Mr. Gore's steady attacks on the Bradley record and platform. But the aides acknowledge that some undecided Democrats may have found the performances annoying, and Mr. Bradley did tone down his sarcasm during the most recent Democratic debate, in Iowa.
Often the voters who attend Mr. Bradley's events do not see his sharper edges but instead are entertained by an upbeat, plain-spoken, somewhat goofy guy who seems remarkably at ease with the pressures of a presidential campaign.
An unscheduled late-night visit to a party at an American Legion hall in Des Moines last week provided a glimpse at how charming his kind of silliness can be. After shaking a few hands, he suddenly marched up to a table, grabbed a pitcher of beer and took a chug straight from the container. The crowd roared appreciatively.
As he posed with a few supporters minutes later, he began idly tossing a basketball at the feet of the photographers, forcing them to step back. The crowd laughed. And when his wife, Ernestine, began dancing with another man, he played the jealous husband, stomping around in a huff, then grabbed another woman and twirled her gracefully to the sound of "Unchained Melody" as her beer splashed around the floor.
And though Mr. Bradley can sound contemptuous of Mr. Gore when he discusses the vice president with reporters, he sounds less so in addressing groups of voters. At the Mason City event, for instance, he was asked about Corn Man, the Gore campaign volunteer who follows him around this state dressed up as huge ears of corn, distributing literature criticizing Mr. Bradley's record on farm policy.
"Real class, you know," Mr. Bradley said of Corn Man's appearance that morning, sounding more like a disappointed parent than an offended candidate. The crowd applauded, and one man even apologized for a local resident's being so uncouth as to step into a Corn Man suit.
Mr. Bradley's efforts to remain a "normal person" in the abnormal circumstances of a presidential campaign often involve games of cat and mouse with reporters, whom he chides when he finds them overly intrusive. His campaign has refused to release the names of some advisers, asserting that they want their privacy protected. And after he was briefly hospitalized for a bout with an irregular heartbeat last month, he declined to disclose his full medical history, on the ground that it would provide more information than people needed.
Mr. Bradley's sparring with reporters is largely invisible to voters, whose questions he rarely turns aside. In Council Bluffs last weekend, 17-year-old Lindsay Hamilton approached him after a speech and asked him to name his favorite movie. He said it was "The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner."
But when some eavesdropping reporters asked him about the film, he demurred, as if the information would allow them to form off-the-reservation judgments about him. "I don't have one favorite movie," he said. "It's just one of many."
A day later, in the town of Exira, 10-year-old Sarah Anthofer privately asked Mr. Bradley a question that he has repeatedly declined to answer when asked by reporters: "If you lose this race, will you run for president again?"
Later, Sarah disclosed Mr. Bradley's reply.
"Yeah," he had told her, "probably." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (93%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



382 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Americans Are No Longer Investing for the Long Term
Investing in the stock market for the long term, the strategy that has made the most sense and the most money for people over the years, is all but dead.
Last year, investors held stocks for just over eight months on average, well short of the two years that was typical a decade ago. Among Nasdaq stocks, the average holding period was five months. The trading frenzy has even infected the staid mutual fund world: investors are holding funds for less than four years on average, while a decade ago, investors held mutual funds for 11 years. Page A1. 

Consumer Price Index Rises Slightly
The Consumer Price Index rose 0.2 percent in December, a figure that was lower than expected and showed that inflation remained under control, even as the economy roared toward a record for uninterrupted expansion. Combined with reassuring comments from the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, on Thursday, the report set off a rally in stocks, but that fervor was cooled after a report from the University of Michigan showed consumer optimism at a record high, reviving fears of overheating and pushing interest rates higher. C14.
 
Shares of AOL and Time Warner Dip
The shares of America Online declined $1.3125, or 2 percent, to $63.1875, while Time Warner's fell 75 cents, to $83.25, as investors struggled to figure out the financial outlook for the $165 billion merger the two companies announced on Monday. The only new development yesterday was AOL's filing of documents outlining the merger agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The filing disclosed that if America Online cancels the deal and is bought by another company within a year, it must pay a breakup fee to Time Warner of $5.4 billion. If Time Warner pulls out and is acquired within a year, it must pay America Online $3.7 billion. C4.
 
Mannesmann Chief Fights Takeover
The chairman of Mannesmann A.G. issued his formal response to Vodafone AirTouch's $140 billion takeover bid, urging shareholders to reject the proposal because a takeover would slow his company's growth. The chairman also said Mannesmann might spin off its Internet business. C2.
 
South Korea Revives Rocket Plans
Now that South Korea's economy has started to recover from the Asian financial crisis, the country plans to revive its attempt to develop a rocket that can carry satellites into orbit within five years so that it can join the ranks of space-faring nations. A3.
 
Dow Industrials Hit Another Record
The Dow Jones industrial average surged to a record for the third time this week, propelled by a strong earnings report from Intel and diminished concerns about higher interest rates. The Dow Jones industrials closed at 11,722.98, up 140.55 points, or 1.21 percent. The Nasdaq composite index gained 107.06 points, or 2.71 percent, to 4,064.49, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 15.47 points, or 1.07 percent, to 1,465.15. C3.
 
Tyco Plans to Sell Auto Auction Unit
Tyco International agreed to sell its ADT Automotive car auction unit for $1 billion in cash to Manheim Auctions, a unit of the privately held Cox Enterprises. C3.
 
Battle for Phone Concern Settled
British Telecommunications will give as much as 49.99 percent of the Irish telephone company Esat Telecom to Telenor of Norway in exchange for 50 percent of Esat's mobile telephone subsidiary, settling a battle for control of the Irish concern. C2.
 
U.S. Financial Markets Closed
United States financial markets will be closed on Monday in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,722.98 up 140.55
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.69% up 0.04
The euro -- $1.014 down 0.01
The dollar -- 105.70 yen down 0.43
 
Graph shows the Dow Industrials weekly closes since Jan. 1, 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (83%); VOD (NASDAQ) (52%); VOD (LSE) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (64%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (83%); MANNESMANN AG (64%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (52%); INTEL CORP (50%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); MERGERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



383 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: 'Green' Companies: The Next Step

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Greening of Corporate America" (Op-Ed, Jan. 8), by Jared Diamond:
The growth of voluntary corporate environmentalism and the increasing frequency of partnerships between business and nonprofit environmental organizations is indeed encouraging. However, given the scale and gravity of our current environmental problems, from global climate change to the extinction of plant and animal species, more must be done. 
 Business must also enter into partnerships with government to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of environmental regulation. Corporate coalitions are needed to push for reform that will provide better economic incentives to reward companies for good environmental performance and penalize bad behavior more effectively.
 
ERIC W. ORTS
Philadelphia, Jan. 8, 2000
 
The writer is director of the Wharton Environmental Management Program, University of Pennsylvania.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: CORPORATE AMERICA FAMILY CREDIT UNION (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); ANIMALS (54%); 

PERSON: JARED DIAMOND (60%); ERIC W ORTS PHILADELPHIA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



384 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: 'Green' Companies: The Next Step

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As the headline to Jared Diamond's Jan. 8 Op-Ed article says, there has been a "Greening of Corporate America." The evidence abounds, including the growing number of mutual funds that invest in companies that get high marks on environmental matters. 
 The movement is not confined to Western economies. The aggressive business response to international environmental standards in the export-oriented economies of Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan reflects the growing environmental discipline of the global marketplace. Indeed, given the global spread of corporate environmentalism, we have reason to anticipate what may come to be called a "clean revolution" in the first century of the new millennium.
 
OWEN CYLKE
Washington, Jan. 11, 2000
 
The writer is coordinator of the Policy Group, U.S.-Asia Environmental Partnership. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORPORATE AMERICA FAMILY CREDIT UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); MILLENNIUM (66%); 

PERSON: JARED DIAMOND (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



385 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Harder Nuclear Arms Policy Is Now Official Kremlin Line

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 14

 BODY:
Underscoring its darkening view of the West, the Kremlin issued a national security strategy today that inveighs against an expansionist Europe and United States and contemplates the use of nuclear weapons in war "if all other means of resolving the crisis have been exhausted."
The revised language governing nuclear weapons is a subtle but unmistakable stiffening of the previous strategy, issued in 1997, which allowed the use of nuclear arms only "in case of a threat to the existence of the Russian Federation." 
 The new strategy was signed by Acting President Vladimir V. Putin on Monday and published today. It reviews not just foreign threats but also a sweeping array of internal dangers, from organized crime to terrorism to separatist movements like that of the militants in Chechnya. Buoyed by the campaign in Chechnya, Mr. Putin is the leading candidate in the election for president on March 26.
In many respects, today's document simply incorporates changes in military and political doctrine approved over the last year as Russia's domestic situation deteriorated and its judgment of Western intentions changed.
The State Department and the Pentagon made no comment today about the announcement. But while the NATO allies do not view Moscow as a source of aggression, allied military commanders still regard its huge nuclear arsenal with wariness and respect.
Taken together, the Russian changes represent a new view of the world by the nation's leaders -- one in which the West is no longer benign, but is a competitor that benefits from and even schemes to ensure Russian weakness.
In the opinion of the document's drafters, Russia is weak in almost every respect.
The strategy calls the armed forces' readiness "critically low," and says social stability is at risk because the population is being stratified into "a thin layer of well-to-do-people and a predominant layer of citizens of scanty means."
It says that terrorism poses a serious internal threat, that foreign economic influence over the economy and natural resources might be more tightly controlled by the state, and that national security is endangered by a brain drain of technologists and the leakage of intellectual property.
The deputy chief of the Russian Defense Ministry's general staff, Col. Valery Manilov, said today that the strategy's apparent suspicion of Western intentions should not be blown out of proportion.
In comments to the Russian news service Interfax, Colonel Manilov said Moscow remained interested in "mutually beneficial and neighborly cooperation on an equal footing with Western countries."
Even that wording reflects the altered sentiment of the strategy, which has dropped all mention of "partnership" with the West in favor of the more neutral term "cooperation."
Little of this bleak picture is new to people who have watched Russia's elite and average citizens alike turn against the West after the NATO bombing campaign against Yugoslavia last spring.
Bruce G. Blair, an expert on Russian and American nuclear forces at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said the change was "a codification of something that's really already been pretty well cemented in the Russian psyche, at least among their security planners."
And the discussion of nuclear contingencies, which attracted by far the most attention, may not prove to be of much practical significance.
Mr. Putin, who spent a decade or more watching the West as a K.G.B. agent in East Germany, is said by friends to be well aware that any threat that Europe and the United States pose to Russia is not military, but economic and cultural.
And the United States -- which also periodically redraws its security landscape, in an exercise not dissimilar from that of the Kremlin -- has traditionally been more hawkish about the first use of nuclear weapons than has Moscow.
America's policy during the cold war was never to renounce the first use of nuclear arms, but to counter a Russian invasion of Europe with nuclear force, if necessary. Russia had renounced the first use of nuclear missiles for some years but, worried about China, abandoned the pledge in 1993. By then, however, it viewed itself as an ally of the West.
In that sense, the Kremlin and White House nuclear policies are not all that far apart.
But in terms of security, the Russian and American nuclear forces are now far apart, Mr. Blair said, with American forces remaining under tight control, while control of Russian nuclear missiles is more problematic.
In Mr. Blair's view, the new security policy may increase the chances of potentially catastrophic lapses in a Russian military hobbled by financial problems and lapsed military discipline.
Russia is forced to rely more and more on its nuclear force to deter threats, experts warn, because its conventional forces no longer are able to repel an outsider. That requires keeping nuclear arms on high alert, and that invites mistakes in a system where missing radars and balky satellites already provide only spotty warning of incoming missiles. The situation may also increase the chance of false alarms.
Russia has increasingly shown its nuclear card in recent years, more as a reminder of its potential to wreak havoc -- and to command respect -- than as any threat. Only last month, Boris N. Yeltsin, who was then president, startled American leaders when in response to a mild criticism of Russia's Chechnya policy, he tartly reminded President Clinton that the Kremlin controls an arsenal of nuclear missiles and does not brook attacks.
In June, the Russian military unveiled its response to the West's bombing of Yugoslavia by staging the largest military exercise since the collapse of the Soviet Union. It carried out mock nuclear strikes on an unspecified, but inarguably Western, enemy.
The plan for the exercise envisioned a Kremlin unable to repel Western forces with its cash-starved army, and thus forced to resort to nuclear weapons.
The Defense Minister, Igor D. Sergeyev, then all but parroted the text of the document released today. "The exercise tested one of the provisions of Russia's military doctrine concerning a possible use of nuclear weapons when all other measures are exhausted," he said then.
"We did pursue such an option," he continued. "All measures were exhausted. Our defenses proved to be ineffective. An enemy continued to push into Russia. And that's when the decision to use nuclear weapons was made."
The strategy formalized today is hardly so apocalyptic. Indeed, it stresses that Russia can regain superpower status -- its clear aim -- only if it pursues capitalism and integrates itself further in the global economy and political system.
On a list of threats to Russia's national security, "complication of international relations" came only at the end of a parade of domestic dangers, including economic chaos, social decay, crime and terrorism, political polarization and ethnic divisions.
Still, the document is laced with Soviet-style references to "some countries," generally unidentified but clearly the United States and Europe nations, said to be bent on global hegemony and thwarting Russia's ambitions.
The document warns that "some countries" are trying to dominate the flow of information worldwide and to force Russia out of the information market.
And NATO's decision to use force outside its borders, as occurred in Yugoslavia, "is a threat of destabilization of the whole strategic situation," the document states. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



386 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Winter in New York: Something's Missing;
Absence of Snow Upsets Rhythms Of Urban Life and Natural World

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART

 BODY:
Once, and not so many years ago, no New Yorker would have dignified a January with three chilly days in a row and a soggy spurt of whitish precipitation as winter. Winter in New York was a season of single-digit temperatures, icy winds whipping off the Hudson and snow forts that did not begin to melt until March.
That chilly stuff Thursday that melted as soon as it touched asphalt -- snow? A sunny Friday afternoon in the 20's -- bitter cold? In Yazoo City, Miss., or Mobile, Ala., maybe. But not in New York City. Until now. Years of mild, rainy winters seem to be making New Yorkers hungry for the freezing winds and snow they deplored when it was plentiful. 
 So the arrival of a bit of real winter -- of Thursday's flurries in the city, of yesterday's lows in the teens, of foot-deep snow in Albany and the Catskills -- created the kind of excitement once reserved for much more extreme meteorological episodes. Radio and television announcers warned listeners about frostbite, and news writers dusted off adjectives like "blustery."
"It's good, the snow," said Glen Cooper, a telephone technician, standing on Eighth Avenue near Times Square, smiling, as the evanescent flakes melted on his face on Thursday. "Snow slows people down. It makes people happy. It's natural."
Freezing, snowy winters are not only natural for New York's trees and greenery, they are entwined in the lore and arts of the city. They influence moods, they inspire poetry and painting, they drive advertising and appetites, they build childhood memories. So the mild winters of the last few years have caused a major ripple effect, from ecology to gastronomy.
To gardeners, one of the most troubling aspects of an April-like January is that it causes many flowering plants and trees to bloom prematurely, including bulbs and fruit trees. Tricked into thinking that spring is approaching, the early buds leave themselves vulnerable to cold snaps, like this one.
Like a quilt on a bed, a blanket of snow keeps the organisms beneath the surface of the soil warm. Without this covering, the insects, bacteria and tree roots underground are left to the mercy of sudden freezes. That could mean there will be fewer ladybird beetles and other useful insects in the spring, said Maurice J. and Catherine A. Tauber, entomologists at Cornell University.
And a complex biological chain reaction, beginning with bacteria living in the soil, could result in high-acid soil, which could run off into the streams and rivers and harm the fish, said Gary M. Lovett, a scientist at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y.
Without their warm snow cover, birches and sugar and red maples, too, are vulnerable to freeze damage, said Allan Auclair, a scientist at the RAND Corporation, a nonprofit research and policy organization in Washington. Sugar maples in Vermont are showing damage, which is probably at least partly the result of the lack of snow, he said.
The already overabundant deer, mice and squirrel populations are likely to increase even more because food supplies are more plentiful and accessible in mild weather. (Luckily, the even more dreaded rats and cockroaches should not proliferate any more than usual.)
But it does not take a scientist to size up the effects of snowless winters on the children too young to remember the record-setting blizzards of 1996. For them, the pleasures of sledding and snowball fights are as out-of-date as hoop-rolling, and the delight of a snow day off from school is unknown.
"I bought a sled in '96 for my daughter," said Dr. Michael Oppenheimer, a scientist at the nonprofit Environmental Defense Fund. "It's been sitting in the stairwell, and hasn't been used. I used to go sledding all the time. It's one of my most vivid and pleasant memories as a kid, hauling the sled out to Cunningham Park in Queens."
Marcella Durand, 32, a poet at the St. Marks Poetry Project in the East Village, remembers burrowing through tunnels and building igloos and snowmen in a snow-buried TriBeCa. "I really miss the snow," she said. "I miss the peace. I miss looking out the windows onto streets with snow falling around the lights, like a special halo. It brought a little bit of peace to the city. It's the only thing that seems to quiet the city down."
Of course, it is easy on a 50-degree day in January to wax nostalgic about the glories of a hard freeze. Even people who moved to Miami to escape the cold have been overtaken by a craving for the coziness of a warm fire in a snowstorm. Some even crank up the air-conditioning so they can huddle by a fake-log fire with a hot whiskey or a cup of cocoa.
Another result of the succession of warm winters is the emergence of a cause of clinical depression. These are bad times for the tiny group of people who become depressed in the summer and cheerful in the winter. "Some people are energized by winter," said Dr. Thomas Wehr, a psychiatrist at the National Institutes of Mental Health. "They look forward to summer with dread." The mild weather is cheating them of the cold they crave, he said.
At least part of the reason for the recent warm winter is La Nina, the chilly air in the equatorial Pacific that has been pushing the vast stream of cold air north along the border of the United States and Canada. This has been allowing space for warm winds from the south to expand into the Northeast, including New York. And Dr. Oppenheimer, among other ecologists, points to global warming as perhaps the most significant long-term factor.
Nearly everybody has an occasional craving for an icy, snowy day. What use are beautiful wool sweaters, high leather boots, thick stews and hot toddies when it's warm? At Cashmere, Cashmere on the Upper East Side, sales of sweaters and sweatsuits have been slow, though they picked up during yesterday's cold, said Jan Mehalick, the owner. At Judson Grill in Midtown, customers are ordering fish at lunch instead of the hearty winter cassoulet, Bill Telepan, the chef, said.
And snowstorms make the city beautiful, at least for a day or two. From an aesthetic point of view, drab light and rain cannot compare with the glistening white and pristine silence of snow. Snow makes events vivid. Who could forget the familiar Currier & Ives images and E. B. White's rendition of stoic Maine farmers and their camaraderie during deep snowfalls.
Who could forget the sight of people cross-country skiing down Broadway during the blizzards of 1996? During the Great Blizzard in 1947, jazz fans created an urban legend when they turned out in force to hear Duke Ellington and his musicians play the "Liberian Suite" in Carnegie Hall.
Despite global warming and La Nina, New Yorkers who are hungry for snow and ice may still find some satisfaction in the months ahead. Snow is predicted for Tuesday -- and that could well mean a snowfall that sticks, rather than mere flurries. Over the next 10 weeks, there are plenty of "snow opportunities," said Fred Gadomski, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University.
"All it takes is one or two good snowstorms and you've got yourself a winter," he said. "If I were a betting man -- and I'm not -- but if I were, I'd say there's a good chance there'll be a good old-fashioned snowstorm some time this winter."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: ICY BUDS -- Premature winter blooms are then vulnerable to cold snaps. (Charles Krebs/The Stock Market); ARTISTIC CHILL -- Where would some artists be without snowy inspiration? (Currier & Ives); MORE DEER -- Mild winters mean a proliferation in the already abundant deer population. (Keith Myers/The New York Times); LESS CASSOULET -- Restaurants say a lack of cold means a lack of appetite for hearty dishes like this. (Norman Y. Lono)
 
Chart: "Let It Snow..." -- After record snowfall just four winters ago, New York City has had decidedly few snow days. Here is snowfall over the past decade. (Shows annual snowfall in NYC from 1990 to 2000.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY LIFE (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); BACTERIA (85%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (83%); METEOROLOGY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (68%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (68%); WRITERS (66%); POETRY (66%); ENTOMOLOGY (65%); BIOLOGY (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); RIVERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



387 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN BRIEFING: GEORGE W. BUSH;
THE CONFEDERATE FLAG

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Texas N.A.A.C.P. asked Mr. Bush yesterday to back its effort to have the image of the Confederate battle flag removed from a plaque on the state Supreme Court building. South Carolina's N.A.A.C.P. has called for an economic boycott of South Carolina as long as it flies the battle flag over the state Capitol. Mr. Bush has said the decision in that dispute is up to the people of South Carolina. After the question about the Texas plaque was raised, Mr. Bush's campaign issued a statement saying, "We are proud of our diversity." The statement added, "We certainly hope that people are not trying to politicize this in the context of a presidential campaign."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (74%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); BOYCOTTS (55%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



388 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
600 JOBS ON LINE AS QUAKER OATS TO CLOSE CEREAL PLANT

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Quaker Oats Company announced yesterday that it planned to close its cereal-making plant, costing 600 jobs. Quaker, which is based in Chicago, has been studying plant closings since September as it concentrates on its popular Gatorade sports drink. The plant, in St. Joseph, Mo., is more than 70 years old. The company said it would negotiate the closing date with the United Cereal Workers Union local that represents about 490 of the 600 workers affected. Quaker products made at the St. Joseph plant include Cap'n Crunch, King Vitaman and Toasted Oatmeal cereals, instant oats and grits. Quaker shares fell $1.875, to $64.50.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OAT (NYSE) (87%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: QUAKER OATS CO (OAT) QUAKER OATS CO (95%); UNITED CEREAL WORKERS UNION (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUAKER OATS CO (OAT) UNITED CEREAL WORKERS UNION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); MISSOURI, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; FOOD AND COOKING CLOSINGS (91%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (88%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (84%); SPORTS DRINKS (84%); LABOR UNIONS (83%); 

PERSON: KING VITAMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



389 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
AMES DEPARTMENT STORES PLANS LAYOFFS AND NEW HIRING

BYLINE: Dow Jones

 BODY:
Ames Department Stores, the discount retailer, said it planned to cut 493 jobs at three distribution centers while adding 100 positions at a fourth. It expects to lay off workers in Columbus, Ohio; Leesport, Pa., and Mansfield, Mass., and to add employees in Westfield, Mass. Ames, based in Rocky Hill, Conn., said that it was restructuring the four centers into one network by eliminating duplication of processes and that it expects to increase productivity and reduce shipping expenses. The company operates 455 stores in 19 states.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADD (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (AMES) AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC (AMES)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (94%); LAYOFFS (92%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); DEPARTMENT STORES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000



390 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: January 16, 2000

 BODY:

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.

 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Jan. 1, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (73%); BELGIUM (50%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (73%); BELGIUM (50%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); RELIGION (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%); WOMEN (70%); SPACE EXPLORATION (65%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); POLICE FORCES (55%); MURDER (52%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (73%); STEPHEN KING (58%); J K ROWLING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



391 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 33; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Powering the Cold War

BYLINE: By Matthew L. Wald; Matthew L. Wald is a Washington correspondent of The Times who writes frequently on nuclear power.

 BODY:

Red Atom
 Russia's Nuclear Power Program
 From Stalin to Today.
 By Paul R. Josephson.
 Illustrated. 352 pp. New York:
 W. H. Freeman & Company. $26.95. 
 In the years after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, two ideas gave birth to a civilian nuclear industry. One was electricity "too cheap to meter," in the now infamous phrase. The other was expiation through technology, a chance for the scientists who had created horrible weapons to redeem themselves by providing the world with a benefit from their invention.
The Soviets never used nuclear weapons in combat, but they had motivations related to ours; to bring the boon of electricity to a woefully retarded industrial base, and to show the world that a well-organized society and economy could work wonders with a technology that the West had used to work horrors. However, Paul R. Josephson's "Red Atom," based on an extensive review of Soviet-era archives, shows that nonmilitary use of nuclear power was like many areas of cold war competition: an avenue for the participants to go to illogical extremes, especially on the Soviet side.
The American postwar track record was mixed: 250 reactors ordered, but almost half canceled before completion; costs so high that several electric companies dropped dead in the effort; fear and loathing after Three Mile Island and an intractable waste problem. But in the United States, at least, the twin restraints of public opinion and capitalism limited the excursion into nuclear power and its spinoffs.
In the Soviet Union there was far less to hold the designers back, and the whole country became like one of those unfortunate American utilities that committed itself too heavily and could find no way out. The Soviets built and built and built -- graphite reactors, pressurized water reactors, sodium-cooled reactors, submarine reactors, floating reactors, "portable" reactors, a giant reactor factory that sank in the mud and on and on.
Josephson, a longtime historian of technology and science and currently a fellow at the Davis Center for Russian Studies at Harvard University, has produced a thorough, if sometimes dense, history of the Soviet effort. In some of its more stunning passages, the book captures the Communist vision of the workers' paradise as it extended to nuclear power. Chernobyl was intended as a "reactor park," Josephson writes, with canals for cooling water that would create "a 'Venice' of nuclear power, where warm-water effluent in the canals attracts geese and ducks, who winter there rather than completing their southern migration."
The goal was atomic-powered Communism, "mighty concrete palaces, energy too cheap to meter, the freeing of citizens from manual labor by wondrous, electrically powered machines, mastery of modern science and technology indicating the superiority of the Socialist system over the capitalist one and the taming of nature to serve the interests of society -- as defined, of course, by the political-scientific leadership."
But it worked even less than in this country. Costs were higher than anticipated, output was smaller, provisions for handling radioactive waste were worse than in the West and design characteristics and operational controls were, as the world learned from Chernobyl, woefully lacking. So was preparation for an accident.
Josephson's research has turned up an astounding variety of dead ends. There was, for instance, food irradiation. Starting as early as the 1950's, the Soviets had tried irradiating fruits, fish, meat and potatoes as a means of preservation. They also tried irradiating hens, seeds and barnyard breeding stock to increase productivity. "The image of the mighty atom joining us at the dinner table was no more a reasonable hope than that of other images promoted during the glory days of atomic energy: the atom and nuclear engines, the atom as excavator and the atom and unlimited electric energy." None of it worked well; much of it did not work at all.
There was the attempt to use small nuclear bombs for peaceful purposes, to aid in oil and gas drilling, to put out fires in oil and gas wells, to create underground storage space for hazardous wastes and to dig canals, harbors and reservoirs ("correcting the mistakes of nature," the Soviets said). And there was Russian imperialism within the Soviet Union, as Moscow exported reactors for research and power to the other republics.
Much was wasted, but, as Josephson explains, his story is also a tale of heroism. Whatever American physicists accomplished, they did it without having to dodge the destruction brought about by the invasion of the Nazis or the purges carried out by Stalin and the K.G.B. The Russians were world leaders in physics. Not for nothing is our term for the machine that allows fusion a Russian one, the tokamak.
Josephson might have done well to note, though, that "too cheap to meter" is a term invented here, to describe a fantasy that flourished in both countries, to the benefit of neither. The Soviets hardly had a monopoly on insular decision-making, unrealistic expectations about cost and reliability and institutional momentum that put bad ideas on artificial life support.
But "Red Atom" does not distinguish among causes. How much is Red and how much is atom? One longs for Josephson to isolate the factors, to separate the universal human constants here, like the messianic drive of physicists, from the particular dictates of the Soviet system, with its penchant for standardization and megaprojects and the small role it allowed for public input or market analysis. How does this compare, say, with France, a nation that is highly centralized and has a strong political overlay in the energy sector of its economy, or with China, another Communist nuclear power, but one with less interest in reactors? Even the United States, a country that until recently cherished free enterprise in everything but electricity, would be a good point of reference.
And in spots, Josephson seems to share the confusion of the nuclear engineers themselves. He complains, for example, that the reactors operated at low efficiency. That argument made sense when the uranium fuel was scarce and expensive; in fact, it has not been so for years. Still, "Red Atom" is impressive in its sweep, and it provides essential details about an industry that has outlived its creators yet, because rickety reactors are still in use and wastes are still accumulating, can make its presence felt around the world at any time.h 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: W H FREEMAN & CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); COLD WAR (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); HISTORY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (61%); 

PERSON: PAUL R JOSEPHSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



392 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
More Money For Lost Bags

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE

 BODY:
THE minimum amount airlines must pay passengers whose luggage is irretrievably lost on a domestic flight will rise this week to $2,500 from its longtime level of $1,250. The Department of Transportation will review the new minimum in July every other year and raise the level in increments of $100 if the rate of inflation requires it.
This modification of a lower limit in effect since 1984 was a long process that began in 1993 with a Ralph Nader group petition asking for a rise to $1,850. Things moved glacially until June of last year, when the Air Transport Association, an industry group that embraces the major United States scheduled airlines, petitioned the Department of Transportation to double the amount. A rising tide of consumer complaints, coupled with stirrings in Congress, provided a context. 
 But the airlines could have increased the payment level independently and, in fact, American Airlines, Midwest Express and Delta had already gone to $2,500. American changed Dec. 15 while it was awaiting the federal announcement; Delta acted on Jan. 5. All airlines publicized pledges to consumers at the end of last year as a response to steps in Congress.
 
What Is Not Covered
The change in reimbursement, which goes into effect Tuesday, one month after the rule was published in the Federal Register, does not affect the compensation for luggage lost on an international flight, which remains at about $9 a pound. In addition, airlines are not responsible for carry-on luggage left behind; the harvest of unidentified eyeglasses, Grisham novels and gloves is reported to be huge. If, on the other hand, travelers are told they may not carry something on, and it is taken for checking, it is then covered.
The precise amount of checked luggage lost by airlines is unknown. The Department of Transportation collects major United States airlines' figures on complaints of "mishandled" luggage -- lost, damaged, delayed or pilfered. The numbers are pretty big. For 1998, it listed 2.49 million complaints for 10 major airlines, with United Airlines leading at 596,000 complaints. The year's total for the major airlines worked out to 5.16 complaints for each 1,000 passengers; United's rate was the highest at 7.79.
But these are only complaints -- bags that failed to get to the carousel on time or were lost, stolen, broken or ripped. Most missing bags catch up with their owners in three days or vice versa, but the number of such reunions is never subtracted from the complaint total: if you learn your bag went to San Diego while you went to San Antonio, as happened to me once, that blip goes into the annual total even though the bags materialize in the San Antonio hotel room the same night.
The Air Transport Association, according to its spokesman David A. Fuscus, put numbers through the computer in January 1998 and concluded that 99.5 percent of all checked bags reached their destinations at the same time as their owners. Of the remaining half a percent, Mr. Fuscus said, 80 percent get where they are going within 24 hours, 99 percent within five days, and 1 percent -- of the half a percent -- are irretrievably lost or stolen. The association estimated that 0.003 percent of checked bags were pilfered.
 
Where Lost Luggage Goes
Bryan K. Owens, owner of the company that buys the luggage that airlines are ultimately unable to identify, says the new bar-code airline tags have improved baggage-handling. However, this has not meant a decline in his supply, he said, because the number of passengers is still on the rise, keeping the tonnage that flows into his huge store, Unclaimed Baggage in Scottsboro, Ala., pretty steady.
Mr. Owens has annual contracts with all the airlines to buy their unreturnables, including abandoned carry-ons and material forgotten in airline clubs. He will not say what this amounts to. When his business was young, I stood on the Scottsboro pavement and watched agape as a tractor trailer backed up to a warehouse and dumped out a full load of suitcases lashed closed with yellow warning tape.
Mr. Owens now calibrates business in marketing style. He lists each object from a suitcase, and the case itself -- if fit to be sold -- as an item. "We get 3,000 unique items into our store daily," he said. Allowing no days off, that would be almost 1.1 million lost things -- pairs of shoes, travel alarms, blankies, earrings and earmuffs -- a year.
"What I pay the airlines is minor," Mr. Owens said, "compared with what they have to pay the passengers." He said the irreducible detritus of the unsalable -- that is, the mangled suitcases -- was turned over to the Government for use in tests of airport security devices. And yes, contraband in lost suitcases also goes to the Government.
The company has a Web site, www.unclaimedbaggage.com, where things are sometimes sold. However, these are individual objects from bags -- laundered, dry-cleaned or whatever -- not suitcases full of contents, so it is not possible to find one's lost bag by the time it has arrived at Mr. Owens's place, after four months or so of processing and waiting.
 
Improving Your Odds
Everyone knows how to keep belongings out of Mr. Owens's one-block store: put a label with a name, the destination address, even an itinerary, inside the suitcase. Tags on handles can be torn off by machines or humans. Inside identification always seems like one more thing to do when departure looms, but it can make the difference.
Never pack anything that cannot be replaced. I once saw an all-gold charm bracelet in Mr. Owens's store where each charm must have had a deep meaning for the owner, and she must have been crushed to lose it. But there it was, for sale to anyone. It is better not to take such things at all. If anything must be checked that has value beyond the $2,500 -- wedding outfits come to mind -- the airline will sell insurance for the added value. Ask your travel agent or the airline, but get to the counter early for this.
When a claim is made for lost luggage, the traveler will have to make a list of what was in the bag. It helps the airline identify a tagless bag, but in any case it will not pay $2,500 if all that was lost was $200 in T-shirts. If new clothing, cross-training shoes, a new camera or gifts are packed in a new suitcase, receipts are going to make a difference at the time the claim is paid. Frequently, people forget how expensive the suitcase itself is, so that receipt is worth saving.
If a bag turns up missing, as the oxymoron goes, proceed immediately to the customer service window near the baggage carousel. You will need the airline claim check stapled into the ticket jacket and other information, most particularly your hotel addresses and phone numbers for the next few days. Do not rush off and try to lodge a claim by phone. The number is usually busy, and you will not be able to look at the chart of luggage types. If there is no word of your bag in three days, it is highly unlikely that it will be found.
If you are unable to go to dinner the first night because your good clothes were in the suitcase and you are wearing sweats, the airline may pay a modest bill for clothes. Get a commitment on this first, if possible. If the bag is eventually declared unfindable, this amount may be deducted from your claim.
Will the rise in the payment minimum reduce the anxious struggle for bin space for carry-ons? Doubtful. But a number of airlines are trying, in various ways.
 
 Limiting the Carry-Ons
Last month, American Airlines joined United, Delta and Southwest in installing sizing devices on the luggage X-ray machines, to keep out oversized carry-on bags. That means four airlines are forcefully limiting the size of what goes into the cabin. American's template accepts a regular suitcase 15 inches wide and 9 inches thick, with a little curve at the center top for a bulgy pocket; a garment bag may be 24 inches wide but only 5 thick. Each of these airlines is using a sizer only on concourses that it controls, or shares with another size-sensitive airline. American started with 10 airports, all major.
The likelihood is that a long trip will involve at least one pass through a template. If you are buying luggage at a sale, keep that nine-inch aperture in mind.
British Airways has taken another route to reducing carry-ons. In February 1999, it set weight limits for carry-ons: one bag of no more than 13 pounds in economy class. The limit in first class was put at two pieces totaling no more than 40 pounds. On Jan. 3, the line raised its business-class limit to two bags totaling 40 pounds, too, from the earlier limit of 20 pounds.
The airline weighs and measures the bags at check-in, so that duty-free items picked up thereafter are not included. However, Honor Verrier, a spokeswoman, said that the duty-free purchase would still have to fit in the bin or under a seat, or it, too, would be taken for checking. At that point, the bag is covered by the international agreement of about $9 a pound, which would not really account for the bottles of single-malt that one might bring home to a good friend.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Paul Corio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (91%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); INFLATION (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



393 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 70; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Food;
Easy Does It

BYLINE: By Molly O'Neill

 BODY:
There are two ways to handle the grim reality of winter. You can conquer the cold, with its icy roads, unpredictable snowfalls and long frigid nights, by spending days in the kitchen simmering, baking and stewing. Or you can capitulate by conserving energy.
Either by disposition or upbringing, I tend to view anything inclement as an invitation to triumph, generally in grandiose fashion. I nurse secret judgments of those who conserve. The phrase "path of least resistance" seems, to my twisted, overachieving mind, tantamount to a living death. 
 However, lately, the virtues of a simple winter meal are not automatically dismissed by my instinctual sneer. There have even been weekends when, in the privacy of my own kitchen, I have actually abandoned long-tended pots in favor of a quick saute, an easy boil or puree, or even a fast pasta or gnocchi with a mindless sauce.
The results are often toothsome, though cooking simply in winter is not easy for me to digest.
Since my instinct to prevail was wrought in competitive sports, I find myself remembering advice from my brother the tennis player. "Strategy, strategy," he once hissed at me during a doubles match, as I huffed and puffed while he remained Mr. Cool at the net. "Think ahead, so you can do less."
Well, he has always been lazy. At least that's what I used to think, despite the fact that the players who lose the most tend to be the ones who sweat the most, and my brother Mr. Cool tends to win.
Victory with no exertion always seemed hollow to me, and a winter dinner could not possibly taste good unless I ran the equivalent of the New York City Marathon between my butcher block and my stove. No more, though. Lately, I'm finding succulence in simpler things. I'm discovering that winter fennel, for instance, while delicious when braised slowly and carefully, can make an extraordinary quick slaw.
While I would still argue that the finest bisque should be passed through a sieve, I am developing a taste for winter squash, roasted and tossed in a blender to create a 10-minute soup. And though I would never dismiss a slow-roasted hunk of veal, I have discovered that scaloppine, or paillards, flash-fried with sage and a nutty oil, make a darned satisfying meal for a long winter's night.
Nevertheless, I have not completely accepted Mr. Cool's laid-back pose. "There's a difference between strategy and laziness," I said to him recently over a dinner of gnocchi he had made in a minute.
So sue me. I'm stubborn. When forced to acknowledge the tasty food he can derive from some effortless waltzing in his kitchen, I tend to initiate conversations about the differences between long pieces of nonfiction (my medium) and poetry (his).
Invariably, I ramble about the brevity of poems. "They must be 50 words instead of 5,000," I tell him. But he doesn't need my advice. Mr. Cool is as economical with his words as he is with his energy. "So, do you like the dinner?" he asked. "Isn't it amazing how many steps a little forethought can save?"
Game point. As usual.
 
Winter Fennel Slaw With Candied Walnuts
 
 1 cup walnut halves
 2 tablespoons sugar
 3 bulbs fennel, thinly sliced
 1 red onion, peeled and thinly sliced
 4 seedless navel oranges, peeled and cut into segments
 3/4 cup orange juice
 1/4 cup white-wine vinegar
 2 cups canola oil
 8 drops Tabasco
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
 2 tablespoons orange zest, removed in thin strips with a zester.
1. In a small skillet over medium heat, combine the walnuts, sugar and 1/4cup water and cook, stirring, until the sugar begins to brown and the walnuts seem glazed, about 4 minutes. Remove from the pan. Set aside to cool.
2. In a large mixing bowl, combine the fennel, red onion and orange segments. Set aside.
3. In a medium bowl, combine the orange juice and vinegar. Slowly whisk the oil into the orange juice and vinegar until it is fully incorporated. Add the Tabasco and season the orange juice mixture with salt and pepper. Pour the liquid over the fennel mixture, toss and refrigerate 1 hour.
4. Transfer the fennel mixture to a serving bowl, top with the candied walnuts and orange zest and serve.
Yield: 8 to 10 servings.
 
Roasted Butternut Squash Soup
 
 4 pounds butternut squash
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
 2 tablespoons unsalted butter
 1 small onion, peeled and diced
 2 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
 5 cups chicken or vegetable stock
 3/4 cup milk
 1/2 cup heavy cream
 Chopped red onion for garnish
 Chervil leaves for garnish.
1. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Using a large, heavy knife, split the squash in half and scrape out the seeds and discard them. Place the squash halves on a baking sheet, season with salt and pepper and roast until very tender, about 1 hour. Use a spoon to scrape out the flesh; set aside, discarding the skin.
2. In a large pot set over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the onion and garlic and cook, stirring frequently, until the onion just turns golden, 6 to 7 minutes. Add the stock and squash and cook, uncovered, for 25 minutes. Allow to cool.
3. Working in batches, puree the soup in a blender or food processor and return it to the pot. Stir in the milk and cream and reheat. Season to taste with salt and pepper and serve garnished with red onion and chervil.
Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 
Potato Gnocchi With Onion Confit and Asiago Cheese
 
 1/2 cup olive oil
 2 1/2 cups peeled and diced Spanish onion
 1 cup red wine
 2 15-ounce packages fresh potato gnocchi
 1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh thyme
 1 cup grated aged Asiago cheese
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the oil. Add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft and lightly browned, about 20 minutes. Raise the heat to high, add the red wine and cook, stirring, until the wine has almost completely evaporated and the onions are a deep burgundy color, about 8 minutes. Set the skillet aside.
2. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cook the gnocchi according to package directions and drain. Set aside.
3. Reheat the onions in the skillet. Stir in the gnocchi, thyme and cheese and season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve immediately.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Scaloppine With Sage And Walnut Oil
 
 8 pieces (about 1 1/4 pounds) veal scaloppine, pounded very thin
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
 1 cup flour
 3 tablespoons unsalted butter
 1 tablespoon vegetable oil
 2/3 cup dry white wine
 1 tablespoon walnut oil
 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh sage leaves.
1. Season the scaloppine with salt and pepper. Lightly coat the scaloppine on both sides with flour, shaking off any excess. Set aside.
2. In a large skillet over high heat, heat the butter and vegetable oil. Working in batches, slip the scaloppine into the skillet, adding only as much as will fit loosely in the pan. Cook, turning once, until lightly browned, about 2 minutes per side. Transfer to a serving platter and repeat until all the veal is cooked.
3. Pour the wine into the skillet and cook, stirring and scraping any browned bits up from the bottom of the pan. Cook until all but a few tablespoons of the wine have evaporated. Stir in the walnut oil and sage. Add the scaloppine to the pan, turning 2 or 3 times, until just warmed through. Return to the platter and serve immediately.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Turnip-and-Potato Puree
 
 3 pounds turnips, peeled and quartered
 3 pounds Idaho potatoes, peeled and quartered
 1 tablespoon unsalted butter
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
In a medium pot over high heat, combine the turnips, potatoes and enough cold water to just cover and bring to a boil. Boil until the turnips and potatoes are very soft, about 30 minutes. Drain the water, leaving the turnips and potatoes in the pot; mash with a potato masher until smooth. (The mixture will be very wet.) Lower the heat and simmer, uncovered, stirring frequently, until the mixture reaches the consistency of mashed potatoes, about 40 minutes. Pass the mixture through a sieve into a bowl and stir in the butter. Season with salt and pepper and serve.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Ginger Pot de Creme
(Adapted from Nobu, New York)
 
 2 1/2 cups heavy cream
 1/2 pound ginger root, peeled and coarsely chopped
 1/4 cup sugar
 6 large egg yolks.
1. In a large saucepan, combine the cream, ginger and sugar and place over medium heat; bring just to a boil, remove from the heat and set aside, covered, for 10 minutes. Strain the mixture and discard the ginger. Put the yolks in a large bowl and whisk until they are thick and light-colored. Very slowly pour in the hot cream, whisking constantly. Strain the mixture through a fine-mesh sieve and allow to cool.
2. Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. Pour the cream mixture into 6 1/4-cup custard cups and cover them with foil. Place the cups in a baking pan and pour boiling water into the pan to come halfway up the sides of the cups. Bake until the custard is just set, 40 to 45 minutes. Remove the cups from the pan and allow to cool slightly. Serve warm or refrigerate and serve chilled.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Potato gnocchi, onion confit and Asiago cheese make a quick cold-weather meal. (Sang An)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TENNIS (73%); SPORTS (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (69%); ATHLETES (67%); MARATHONS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



394 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Dr. Irwin Redlener;
Making Health Care Better for Children

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE

 BODY:
FOR more than three decades, Dr. Irwin Redlener of New Rochelle, president of the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, has worked on behalf of children who, usually because of their economic circumstances, are underserved by the health care system.
Frustrating? Yes, he admits, but he hopes that today's prosperity will result in policies that will help the 20 million or so American children who are without health insurance or otherwise have problems obtaining health care. 
 Dr. Redlener is president and co-founder of the Children's Health Fund, a philanthropic organization, which he and the singer Paul Simon established in 1987 to support health care programs for children. He is also professor of pediatrics at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and a lecturer in pediatrics at Harvard Medical School. His wife, Karen, with whom he works on many of his projects, is director of the New York Children's Health Project.
Here are excepts from a recent conversation with Dr. Redlener:
Q. With a hospital being built at Montefiore and another at the Westchester Medical Center, will there not be too many children's units in this region?
A. We are so far behind when it comes to children's hospitals that we could actually probably use, besides the two you mentioned, one in southern Manhattan or Brooklyn. In terms of pure need, let me give you an idea of what it is: in Philadelphia, where there are about 200,000 children, there are three children's hospitals. In the Bronx alone there are almost 400,000 children, and with southern Westchester over 400,000 children, and there has never been a children's hospital in the Bronx even though it is the largest and most medically undeserved urban area in the United States.
So I'm not the slightest bit concerned about too much in the way of children's services.
Q. Why has health care not gotten better for poor children?
A. The reason is that the prosperity we are enjoying, if you start looking at the figures, is one that is exaggerating the extreme wealth at the upper end of the economic scale and so far not doing much at the lower and middle-lower ends of the economic scale. We have had what I consider to be an intractable level of child poverty in this country that hovers between 20 and 25 percent of American children living in poverty. It has been that way without change for basically more than a decade.
One of the problems is that we have not provided the basic elements needed to get out of poverty -- making sure that people are healthy, especially in early childhood, and that the educational system is top notch. Health care and early health services -- and I mean physical and emotional health and stability -- are the absolute essential building blocks for making people into adults who will be productive. If they're not healthy, they will do poorly in school. They're both chronically ill and under educated, and this has a profound effect on the general economic level in the United States and on the ability of people currently in poverty to get out of poverty.
Q. Is it frustrating to realize that so little has been accomplished when you have talked about the need for better health care for 30 years?
A. It is definitely frustrating, and it is difficult to understand why it takes so long to change this. People say that it took a long time for it to get the way it is, and it's not going to change overnight. But I think 30 years is beyond overnight already. I am frustrated, but I do think there is a sense of hopefulness now. In 1997, for example, the federal government passed the State Child Health Insurance Program, providing $24 billion over five years to expand health insurance. This was out of the blue and sponsored by Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Orrin Hatch, representing two different parties, and very strongly pushed by President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. It has taken a long time to get implemented, but we're really starting to roll on this. We've had about two million kids now enrolled on it.
The other thing is that the children themselves are awesome in their ability to inspire hopefulness. People always ask me, Is it depressing to work with kids who are under the duress of the adverse conditions that they live in? I and my wife, Karen, have worked together on this since 1971 when I ran a medical firm in Arkansas and she was a Vista volunteer. While we feel frustrated, we are hopeful about the future. The new children's hospital is not going to be just a hospital but a whole new child health system. We expect to be seeing 5,000 to 6,000 inpatients and more than 100,000 outpatients a year, and another couple of hundred thousand children will be using various elements of this child health network that we're establishing. There are going to be no financial barriers whatsoever to get into this hospital and its whole system.
Q. You mentioned the support of Senator Hatch, a Republican, for the children's health insurance program. Does that give you the hope that children's health care will not be a Democratic issue only?
A. Yes. The fact that he was involved as a true partner with Senator Kennedy in 1997 is a hopeful sign. Many of us have been pleasantly shocked to see health care back on the agenda in the presidential campaign. Although right now it has been a Democratic dynamic, I'm sure Republicans area going to be asked to state their views clearly about how they think we're going to solve some of these enormous health care challenges. Some of us are going to be measuring candidates on how they approach children's issues in general. My wish is that everybody push these candidates to focus on the health care, educational and social needs of children. There is no greater gift that we can give the country.
Q. As a health care advocate, what is your involvement with Paul Simon?
A. In 1985 through 1987, I was involved with U.S.A. for Africa, which did the "We Are the World" song, and I was involved with the very significant Ethiopian famine relief. And Paul Simon was one of the singers on the song, and I was director of grants and medical director for the organization. Paul got very interested in the problems of the homeless in New York. As it turns out, 10 percent of the money raised by U.S.A. for Africa was designated to remain in the U.S. to deal with hunger and homeless issues.
So Paul asked the organization if he could get some help with doing something for homeless children in New York. And he was referred to me. Paul and I took what turned out to be a fateful tour of some of the facilities that were taking care of homeless families. And we walked into the Martinique Hotel in Manhattan in the fall of 1986, where there were 1,000 children and their families, warehoused in a squalid tower in New York City. The needs of these kids was pretty overwhelming.
So I developed the New York Children's Health Project, and it was about setting up a mobile health care program for homeless children in the city. I recruited Karen to get involved in this, and she did a lot of research about the health care needs of kids. Paul got very involved with all of this. He basically paid for the first mobile unit of the New York Children's Health Project, which is custom designed, and he built the 35-foot-long, fully equipped rolling pediatric clinic. We now have five of them in New York, now all affiliated with Montefiore Medical Center. They comprise the largest health care program for homeless kids in the United States.
Then Paul and I set up a foundation called the Children's Health Fund, and Karen is involved, and we have been developing this model, which we have now spread to 15 communities around the United States. All of them use mobile units and other means to provide what we believe is high-quality medical care to medically underserved children.
Q. Who is financing the New York Children's Health Project now?
A. My foundation, and by the way two-thirds of the money we raise, which is between $5 million and $6 million a year, is from corporate partnerships.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Irwin Redlener, who works with poor children, and his wife, Karen, in New Rochelle with their dog Calvin. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF THE KING'S DAUGHTERS (73%); WESTCHESTER MEDICAL CENTER (56%); MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER MEDICAL CENTER (56%); MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEALTH CARE (90%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY RATES (85%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); CHARITIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); PHILANTHROPY (55%); 

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN 'PAUL M' SIMON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



395 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 7; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Salieri, Still the Perfect Prism for Mozart's Genius

BYLINE: By Vincent Canby

 BODY:
ONE of the crafty pleasures of Peter Shaffer's "Amadeus" is that it is constructed in such a way that it seems to be about -- and to reveal -- someone who, in life, would have possessed the profound inscrutability of genius: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791), child prodigy and tireless performer at European courts, composer of some of the most sublime music ever written, dead at 35.
Mozart appears to be the chief concern of "Amadeus," at stage center much of the time, running, jumping, whining and whinnying. A rude, overbearing fellow, in his mid-20's when first met, he creates his masterworks with an ease that he dismisses with arrogance, or with the kinds of apologies designed to insult by being so patently insincere. He's still a child, but a holy one. Mozart has no idea why he irritates so many people and, worse, he doesn't care. Most maddening: he takes his astonishing gifts for granted. 
 Standing off to one side, seeing all and hearing Mozart's music, which only he understands to be a manifestation of God's love, is Antonio Salieri, the ambitious Italian-born composer and conductor, a favorite at the imperial court in Vienna in 1781. Mozart may be the center of "Amadeus," but Salieri is its dominant, mesmerizing presence, the conductor of this drama, a desperate, tragic figure who provides us with the means to see Mozart's genius in a recognizable human dimension. Salieri is the nearly perfect prism through which a character as complex and mysterious as Mozart can be evoked in a piece of dramatic fiction written by a mere mortal.
This is Mr. Shaffer's achievement in "Amadeus," which first opened in New York in 1980 and played nearly three years, and has now come back, in slightly altered form, to take up residence at the Music Box Theater. Sir Peter Hall, who directed the first production, has also staged the new one, which stars David Suchet as Salieri and Michael Sheen, a young Welsh actor, in the title role. The production was first done at the Old Vic in London in October 1998 and comes to New York via an engagement at the Ahmanson Theater in Los Angeles.
Mr. Shaffer has been quoted as saying that the changes he has made have been intended to tone down all that was too "splendidly melodramatic" in the original production. He has also muted Mozart's manic giggle, which I rather liked, though it baffled and confused many others. Whatever the changes, most of them won't be recognized by someone who hasn't compared the scripts of the two productions. For anyone seeing "Amadeus" for the first time, the play should be a terrifically entertaining, highly theatrical discovery.
It also adds tone to a Broadway season parched for nonmusical pizazz.
Tales of tortured genius have always brought out the worst of those in the popular arts who would explain the phenomenon. Think of Charlton Heston as Michelangelo in "The Agony and the Ecstasy," a moody windbag with well-oiled pectorals and an intense gaze made possible by the pin spots that light his deep-set eyes. Or Kirk Douglas as a red-bearded macho van Gogh in "Lust for Life" and Cornel Wilde as a gormless Chopin in "A Song to Remember." Instant camp, all.
Genius, for good reason, isn't often met in either theater or films these days. It too easily looks like self-parody.
As if in respect for the singularity of his subject, Mr. Shaffer, who was a music critic in London before he became a successful playwright, stands at a distance from Mozart, using Salieri almost in the way that a medium uses a familiar to communicate with the dead. It's a brilliant theatrical ploy. It allows him to consider the frenzied life of someone cursed with unimaginable gifts without being required to analyze them as a conventional biographer might.
There are those who feel that Mr. Shaffer has fiddled with facts in "Amadeus" by using the gossip that Salieri poisoned Mozart, which figures in Rimsky-Korsakov's 1897 opera, "Mozart and Salieri." Though that story has apparently long since been discredited, Mr. Shaffer uses it not as fact but as one of the elements in the fever dreams that Salieri shares with the audience on what he expects to be the last night of his life in 1823. Beginning on this terrible night, "Amadeus" is mostly a series of interlocking hallucinations that bounce around in time from 1823 to 1781, back to 1823 and finally to 1825.
"Amadeus" isn't really "about" the poison plot or about the decline, after his death, in Salieri's once-formidable reputation as a composer and conductor. Rather, it is about Salieri's fury with God when he is forced to acknowledge to himself that his own talents as a composer come to nothing when compared to those of Mozart. "Amadeus" is about Salieri's fantastic, futile refusal to accept his fate. "They say that God is not mocked," he calls out to the one he calls Signore. "I tell you, Man is not mocked! . . . I am not mocked!"
Early on he confides to the audience that he first recognized God as "the candle-smoked" figure "staring at the world with dealer's eyes," an image on the wall of a church in his native Lombardy. "Tradesmen had put him up there," he says. "Those eyes made bargains real and irreversible. 'You give me so -- I'll give you so! No more. No less!' "
As a young man, Salieri made a bargain with that dealer-God. He asked to become a composer and to have "sufficient fame to enjoy it." In return, he vowed to live in virtue, to better the lot of his fellow creatures and to honor God with music all the days of his life. Salieri is taken up by the court in Vienna, where he flourishes, securing God's blessings, until Mozart arrives seeking royal patronage.
At first, the older man dismisses Mozart as a gross, ill-mannered parvenu. Then, in one stunning sequence, the audience sees Salieri as he responds to a Mozart serenade being played by the composer offstage.
Salieri describes his feelings with an intensity and a passion that, we realize, must be missing from his own work. He makes comprehensible the glories of the music, but without damaging the integrity of the mystery of its creation. It is as if he had been double-crossed by the shifty figure with a dealer's eyes.
"I was suddenly frightened," Salieri says. "It seemed to me that I had heard the voice of God -- and that it issued from a creature whose own voice I had also heard -- and it was the voice of an obscene child."
Though Salieri isn't meant to be a comic character, there is something essentially comic about his schemes to discredit the younger man, who initially considers Salieri nothing more than a stuffed shirt. Salieri's plots are often successful but, as he knows, he will lose in the long run.
There is a superb scene near the end of the first act when Salieri studies a batch of Mozart's original manuscripts, which, to his horror, look "like fair copies," containing no corrections of any kind. "It was puzzling -- then suddenly alarming," he says. Mozart, he realizes, wasn't composing like anyone else, but "simply transcribing music completely finished in his head." Finally, "I was staring through the cage of those meticulous ink strokes at -- an Absolute Beauty!"
What illuminates "Amadeus" as much as anything else is the playwright's passion for Mozart's work, expressed, indirectly, through Salieri's jealousy and spiritual desolation. Only Salieri understands the melancholy that informs even the most effervescent of Mozart's operas, and the triumphs that are yet to come.
IT helps, I suppose, if you bring along to the theater your own preconditioned responses to Mozart's music, which we hear in short excerpts at important moments. Yet the play is so cannily constructed that, I suspect, it is not even necessary to have that baggage to experience the play's full emotional and intellectual impact.
Like Sir Peter's revival of "An Ideal Husband," one of the hits of the 1996 Broadway season, the new production is nearly flawless, so fluidly staged that it has the movement and pacing of choreography. There are even moments when it suggests a piece as elegant and dark as "Cosi Fan Tutte."
Mr. Suchet is best known in this country for his television performances as Agatha Christie's pursed-lipped, impeccably groomed Belgian detective Hercule Poirot. If one is not used to seeing him play other roles, it is something of a shock to find him filling the shoes of Ian McKellen, Broadway's original, raging Salieri, and F. Murray Abraham, who won an Oscar for his diabolical Salieri in Milos Forman's 1984 film adaptation.
Mr. Suchet's performance is softer, less brutally crazed than those of any of the predecessors I have seen in the role, maybe because of Mr. Shaffer's rewrites. This production is thus sadder and more introspective.
Mr. Sheen realizes all of the uproarious, randy outrageousness of Mozart. He also exudes the kind of breathless energy that, one assumes, Mozart must have possessed to create such a huge body of work in such a short period of time. Other notable cast members: Cindy Katz, who plays Mozart's somewhat foolish but sexy wife, Constanze, and David McCallum, who is quite funny as the Hapsburg king, Joseph II, not a stupid man and, when he attends to a situation, often astute.
"Amadeus" is poetically attuned to one of the most haunting characters of modern European civilization. You might suspect that Mozart knew his time was running out even when, at the age of 8, he was being shown off at the court of Louis XV at Versailles. All his life he was running to meet his obligations, to keep ahead of time, driven by his father, by his economic circumstances, by his wife, by the sounds inside his head that Salieri could have killed for, but didn't.
And, says Mr. Shaffer: don't forget Salieri. He called out to God, and God laughed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Sheen, standing on bench, as Mozart and David Suchet, seated second from right, as Salieri in Peter Shaffer's play "Amadeus" at the Music Box. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. 7); Only Salieri, in portrait at left, understands the melancholy found in even the most effervescent work of Mozart, right, in "Amadeus." (Gerhard Markowitsch) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); 

PERSON: PETER LEVIN SHAFFER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



396 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 2A; Page 3; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: SPRING FILMS/ACTORS-DIRECTORS;
The Actors Who Have Two Faces

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR; Dave Kehr is writing a documentary on Clint Eastwood for the PBS series "American Masters."

 BODY:
IN a tradition that runs from the early western star Broncho Billy Anderson to Clint Eastwood, from Charles Chaplin to Woody Allen, actors have used the movies to mold their own identities and contemplate their own images -- a necessary process whenever stars decide to direct themselves.
When a performer doubles as his own director, he gazes into a reflecting pool more profound than the poor thing available to Narcissus. He sees himself through the eye of the camera, a more objective, more judgmental observer. He sees himself as the world perceives him, but in amplified action and 50 feet tall. 
 Though in the movies this tradition has been largely a male one, still photography has produced such compulsive female self-portraitists (and self-fantasists) as La Castiglione and Cindy Sherman. Both would certainly approve of this season's sudden rush of films by female actor-directors.
Anjelica Huston directed herself as a feisty Irish widow with seven children in "Agnes Browne," which reopens in March; next month, in "Hanging Up," Diane Keaton imagines herself as one of three sisters awaiting the death of their difficult father (played by Walter Matthau), and later this spring, Shirley MacLaine is both director and star of "Bruno," about a robust mom with a cross-dressing son.
Not to be left out, the boys in the business are also contributing: Stanley Tucci directs and stars as the journalist Joseph Mitchell in "Joe Gould's Secret"; Billy Bob Thornton casts himself as the dominant male in an eccentric Southern family in "Daddy and Them"; Ed Norton directs himself as a priest competing with a rabbi (Ben Stiller) for a woman's affections in "Keeping the Faith"; and Kiefer Sutherland performs under his own direction as a young man sharing the bed of his housekeeper (Holly Hunter) with his widowed father (Michael Moriarty).
Much of the time, of course, an actor becomes a director as a matter of practicality (in the early days, there was often no one else around to do it) or of economics (it takes a name to raise money, and celebrated actor-directors can always deliver their own). But often there is more.
Consider the case of G. M. (Broncho Billy) Anderson, who may have been the first actor-director in the movies. Anderson was actually a Jewish kid from Little Rock, Ark. (real name: Max Aronson), who worked as a salesman and on the stage before being hired as an actor by the Edison Company. He played three bit roles in Edison's pivotal, hugely popular 1903 western "The Great Train Robbery," an experience he drew upon when he founded his own company, Essanay, in 1907. Beginning with "The Bandit Makes Good," Anderson parlayed his amiable Broncho Billy character into some 400 one- and two-reel attractions over the next nine years, becoming one of the earliest identifiable movie stars and the first long-running cowboy hero.
Not enough of Anderson's work survives to allow us to trace his personal themes, but an element of reinvention and vindication is certainly present. A double outsider, the Jewish Southerner imagines himself as the quintessential figure of American mythology -- the dashing idol of the open plains, the embodiment of personal freedom, the man without a past.
Filming himself striding across the Western landscape (Anderson was one of the first filmmakers to leave New York for California), he must have been acutely aware of the discrepancy between his personal history and his invented character. But for the urban immigrants who were the primary patrons of early movies, Anderson's fantasy may well have been their own; without knowing his story, they could identify with his need to wipe the slate clean, to begin again.
With his 1980 "Bronco Billy," Clint Eastwood paid tribute to Anderson, casting himself as a former salesman (a profession shared by Anderson and by Mr. Eastwood's own father) who reinvents himself as the star of a threadbare traveling Wild West show. Simultaneously a self-conscious fake and a man who deeply believes in the moral values his character represents, Mr. Eastwood's Bronco Billy is both a satirical self-portrait and a fond evocation of a lost ideal. Through Billy's naive belief in the Western code of honor, Mr. Eastwood pays tribute to exactly the kind of western that his own revolutionary, searingly cynical work with Sergio Leone had destroyed.
Among the work of actor-directors, Mr. Eastwood's is perhaps the most insistently self-critical. The Oscar-winning "Unforgiven," with its repudiation of the myth of the gunfighter, is a more extreme, self-conscious statement of a theme that has haunted Mr. Eastwood's work since his first film as a director, the 1971 "Play Misty for Me." Examining his own image as the idealized American male, Mr. Eastwood finds much that disturbs him: his characters shade into self-doubt and masochism; they are given to explosions of unthinking violence and self-destructiveness; they are, often enough, empty shells -- in a few cases ("High Plains Drifter," "Pale Rider") they are ghosts, phantoms of the American past.
Mr. Eastwood looks in the mirror of his films and frequently dislikes what he sees; for Charles Chaplin, the cinema was also a mirror, but one that provided him with infinite delight. Chaplin's affair with himself is one of the great love stories of the movies. He took over the direction of his films as soon as his mentor, Mack Sennett, would allow it, and we know now, thanks to Kevin Brownlow's scholarship, that he made dozens if not hundreds of takes of every shot, as if he could not stop looking at himself -- and driving his all his co-stars and crew into exhaustion in the process.
Chaplin's fascination with his own filmed image produced some of the most beautiful films in the history of the medium, yet it may have had a therapeutic value as well. Fixing his personality on film was perhaps his way of combating the schizophrenia that eventually claimed his mother; imagining a world in which he was the undisputed dramatic and visual center was perhaps a response to a childhood of permanent instability, of abrupt changes in fortune and inconstancy of affection. Could a similar impulse be behind the even more self-worshiping work of Barbra Streisand, whose last exercise in auto-adoration proclaimed its project in its title, "The Mirror Has Two Faces"?
Chaplin's great contemporary, Buster Keaton, filmed himself as if he were an outside witness to the adventures of his own body. The regard he trained on his own performance was one of utter indifference, which is why Keaton strikes us now as so much more modern than the sentimental, essentially Victorian Chaplin. Keaton is an object among objects, no more entitled to the camera's attention than a storefront or a passing car. His is the alienation of Kafka; in his self-portrait he sees a stranger.
Comedians have always constituted a special category of actor-directors, one that includes Harold Lloyd, Jerry Lewis, Woody Allen, Mel Brooks and Jackie Chan -- though not, curiously, our greatest contemporary clown, Jim Carrey, who has thus far shown no interest in moving behind the camera. Like Jerry Lewis before him, Mr. Carrey has made multiple personalities inhabiting the same body the theme of his comedy; it remains only for Mr. Carrey to seize upon and dramatize that fragmentation, as Mr. Lewis did in his most important film, "The Nutty Professor." It is a truism that many comedians are, offstage, among the world's least happy inhabitants; Mr. Lewis's work, in particular, dramatizes that split, shattering his ego into countless splinters. Some of his personalities are sweet and childlike, others brooding and sinister.
Transplanted theater actors also frequently insist on directing themselves, though their motivations seem to lie in extremely healthy egos rather than in damaged ones. In America, there was Orson Welles, with his insistently repeated fables of greatness brought low, a fable he seemed determined to act out in his own life. In England, Laurence Olivier could trust no one else with his interpretations of "Henry V," "Hamlet" and "Richard III," a tradition continued by his hopeful heir, Kenneth Branagh, who has a version of "Love's Labours Lost" coming out this year.
And in France, there is the singular and delightful case of Sacha Guitry, a ham of legendary proportions who makes Chaplin's self-regard seem positively timid. Yet Guitry, directing one of the droll comedies or sweeping historical epics -- "The Story of a Cheat," "Pearls of the Crown" -- that he wrote as vehicles for himself, his wives and his assorted friends and colleagues, remains one of the great boon companions of the movies, a genial host who liked nothing more than providing entertainment and edification for his guests.
Welles, Olivier and Guitry all belong to a classical tradition of stage acting. They are all great lovers of makeup and technique who revel in gluing on a false mustache or adopting a foreign accent. Yet they always remain themselves, and in putting on their elaborate disguises, they only reveal more of their own personalities.
The opposite is true of the Method generation. No other school of acting has produced so many performers drawn to directing themselves, influenced, no doubt, by the sublime achievements of the first and greatest of their ranks, John Cassavetes. Yet, for a style of performance meant to draw on inner truth rather than outer appearance, the Method has produced a surprisingly bland, same-seeming run of actor-directors.
Sean Penn, Jack Nicholson, Dennis Hopper, Paul Newman, Tim Roth, Tim Robbins, Robert De Niro, Kevin Spacey have all, when they have stepped to the other side of the camera, exhibited a concern with performance that all but supersedes plot and pacing. Reacting, perhaps, against the atmosphere all too typical on Hollywood productions, in which the performers are trotted out of their trailers every two or three hours to deliver a disconnected line and are then packed away again, the Method practitioners place the actor's moment at the center of their work, prizing the discovery and revelation of character above all else.
And yet, instead of achieving a new reality, these films tend to feel more artificial and clumsily theatrical than the traditional Hollywood kind. By staking a protected space for the performer, they become films about acting, in which technique is showcased over expression and manner is celebrated for its own sake. In liberating the performer, they cut him off from his context; what works on a bare stage does not function in the movies, where so many other factors -- camera placement, cutting, lighting, music -- contribute to the creation of an emotional atmosphere and a signifying moment.
Impassioned speeches, tearful confrontations, spectacular breakdowns abound in these movies, allowing actors the rare opportunity to use the full range of their instruments -- occasions often rewarded by Oscars, voted by an Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in which actors make up the largest voting bloc. The material that these filmmakers are drawn to -- courtroom dramas, domestic squabbles, psychological thrillers -- tends to replicate the confined space of the stage. Wittingly or not, they make films about emotional claustrophobia, about being closed in small spaces with big feelings.
In the actor-director balance, these filmmakers are actors first, directors second -- perhaps not the best way for this arrangement to go. Parity produces the best results -- a balance of looker and looked-at, of image and imagemaker. In a strange but real way, it then becomes possible to open a dialogue with yourself, turning split personality into art.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clint Eastwood, above in the self-critical "Unforgiven," and Barbra Streisand, at left in the self-adoring "Mirror Has Two Faces," are among the actors who have turned the camera on themselves. (ABC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (66%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); ARKANSAS, USA (66%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); 

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (88%); KIEFER SUTHERLAND (79%); BEN STILLER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



397 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Artists Must Leave a Building They Saved

BYLINE: By RICHARD WEIZEL

 BODY:
FOR the past year a group of South Norwalk artists have waged a frantic battle to save the Lock Building, the nearly 150-year-old building where they have lived and worked together for more than a decade.
After fixing up the cavernous and decaying former factory of red brick on Marshal Street where locks were made for more than a century, the artists last year convinced the city and the developer who is buying the building that the space could be profitable. They asked that the building be preserved and the plans to tear it down for a parking garage be abandoned. 
 But the artists will not be there to celebrate their victory. They will be long gone by the time the building is transformed to a multi-use office building, where there will be some space for artists, but at a rent of between $15 and $20 per square foot, instead of the $7 or $8 they are now paying. The developer, Spinnaker Companies of Stamford, would not comment on who the new tenants would be.
In fact, most of the more than 40 artists and artisans have already moved out, most to other cities and states.
The half-dozen artists who remain must be out by Feb. 7, a condition imposed by Spinnaker, which is buying the building from Maritime Square Inc. for $3.3 million as part of the city's Reed Putnam urban renewal project.
As part of that project, a six-level parking garage with up to 830 spaces will be built on the Maritime Aquarium parking lot across the street from the aquarium and the Lock Building.
The artists said they were frustrated because when they moved into the building years ago, it was falling apart. Artists were able to rent the space cheaply, and over the years they created studios and space for exhibits and galleries. At its peak, about 50 artists were in the building.
"What makes this such a tragedy is that they're using the plan we came up with, but forcing the artists who lived and worked here to leave, and the city is opting for a Disneyland type of atmosphere instead of real arts and culture," said Bill Kraus, executive director of the Historic Lock Building Association. "At least we proved it was easier and just as economically feasible to preserve an historic building than tear it down, and the city and developer found out we were right."
That won't keep artists like Dennis Bradbury in their studios. Ms. Bradbury, a photographer who has lived and worked in a 1,000-square-foot studio in the building for seven years, will be one of the last to leave early next month.
"What I'm going to miss most is the camaraderie, the inspiration we all gave to each other," said Ms. Bradbury, who is moving to another South Norwalk location. "We fought hard to save the building and we can derive satisfaction that we changed a lot of minds about that."
Enzo and Germano Russo, twin brothers who came to this country three decades ago after graduating from the School of Fine Arts at the University of Florence, Italy, said it would be like leaving a family.
"It is like leaving our family in Italy all over again, this is the best place we have ever had," said Germano Russo, who compares the four-block South Norwalk area to the famous "SoHo" section of Manhattan where the brothers also once lived and worked. "This is like SoHo all over again. The artists come in and help save a dying area, and then are forced to leave when the revitalization makes it possible for the landlords to raise the rents."
The city's planners and development agency said that the expanding Maritime Aquarium was the area's main economic anchor and that a redevelopment plan must revolve around the attraction that draws more than 600,000 people to the city each year. The main concern of the aquarium was that the artists, many of whom lived in the Lock Building, would use valuable parking during the weekend when museum attendance is at its peak.
"We have been saying all along that we would love the artists to stay, but accessible parking is our top priority because we are growing and people who come here need quick, convenient parking" said Dave Sigworth, a spokesman for the aquarium.
Edward Musante, executive director of the Norwalk Redevelopment Agency, said that while there was tremendous public support to save the Lock Building, there was no way it could remain in its present dilapidated condition.
"The sale of the building is a private transaction between the owners and developer and the artists have to realize they've been fortunate to have lived and worked there so cheaply for as long as they did," Mr. Musante said.
Mr. Musante and other city leaders pointed out the artists lived and worked in a building for years that was in serious violation of city building and fire codes. They said the developer even came up with a plan last summer that included some space for artists.
Spinnaker Companies had proposed a partnership with Artspace Projects Inc., a Minneapolis-based nonprofit group known for saving historic buildings and transforming them into affordable space for artists to live and work.
But Artspace, which originally became involved in the project when the artists enlisted its help, rejected Spinnaker Companies' plan to sell it about half the building -- about 50,000 square feet -- for $2 million. Artspace did offer the present owners $2 million for the building, but Spinnaker offered $3.3 million.
Chris Velasco, head of national advisory services for Artspace, said he was disappointed the nonprofit group was not able to close a deal that would have resulted in the creation of an $11 million regional arts center in the building. The center would have included a public arts gallery and sculpture garden and about 60 artists' studios.
"What makes this so frustrating is that we surveyed more than 7,500 artists in New York and New England and found it was by far the strongest market for artists anywhere in the country," Mr. Valasco said. "There were 600 artists who said without question they would move to the building if we were able to carry out our plans."
Mr. Valasco and Mr. Kruas said they are looking at options, such as trying to find an alternative building in a nearby city like Bridgeport.
Gwen Briggs, an abstract painter, recently left her studio after six years in the building.
"This happens all over America," she said. "We show people the beauty and potential of the older, historic parts of town, and then there are people who profit from our efforts and creativity."
Jeff Kapec, owner of Tanaka-Kapec Design Group, which has been in the Lock Building since 1983, said the city would regret not taking a more active role to keep the artists. He said the artists there had been among the leaders of the SoNo Arts Celebration, a three-day summer event that draws more than 100,000 people and will celebrate its 24th year in August. He said the departure of the artists could hurt the event.
"We were here before the artists starting coming in the mid to late 80's and this building and neighborhood were in terrible shape," Mr. Kapec said. "But when the artists starting coming in it was like magic, and the whole area started getting better. I don't think the city has any idea what it is losing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeff Kapec of the Tanaka-Kapec Design Group, which has been in the Lock Building, at left, in Norwalk since 1983, talks to the artists Mary Elliott O'Reilly, right, and Dennis Bradbury. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HISTORIC LOCK BUILDING ASSOCIATION (84%); SPINNAKER COS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: DENNIS BRADBURY (61%); EDWARD MUSANTE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



398 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Fostering the Links of Colleges to Neighborhoods

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY introduced a program this month that will offer cash incentives to faculty and staff members at nine public institutions of higher education in six urban centers to buy or improve homes near their campuses.
Called the College & University Homebuyers' Program, state housing officials say it is the latest initiative to help increase home-ownership rates in cities while bringing them economic diversity and helping to stabilize the urban centers. 
 "One of the greatest challenges facing cities is attracting and retaining middle-income households," said Jane M. Kenny, commissioner of the state's Department of Community Affairs, which oversees housing issues. "With this program we have enlisted as partners public colleges and universities, which often are large landholders and employers in their neighborhoods, by providing the resources that will make it easier for their faculty and staff to put down roots in the community." She said the added hope was that the program would spur other renovation efforts and attract more people to move into the neighborhoods.
Many university and college officials said that while the $2.5 million program was no panacea it could strengthen neighborhood economies and enhance the enclaves as well as help in school recruiting efforts.
"We have to try it because anything that helps to rebuild urban neighborhoods is important to all of us," said Dr. Francis L. Lawrence, president of Rutgers, the State University, one of the participating schools.
The program, financed with money appropriated by the state legislature, will make available $10,000 in down-payment assistance to full-time faculty or staff members from the schools. They can use the state money to buy new or existing one- and two-family homes as well condominiums, priced up to $240,000, in designated areas of Newark, Trenton, Camden, Vineland, New Brunswick and Jersey City.
In addition, employees who already own homes in the targeted areas may receive up to $5,000 to make exterior improvements to their houses under the program, which is being administered by the New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency, part of Department of Community Affairs.
The money will be provided in the form of a five-year, no-interest loan that will be forgiven at 20 percent a year for each year the person lives in the house as his principal residence. There are no income eligibility requirements under the program, which is open to the 22,165 employees at the 13 campuses of the participating institutions.
The campuses are Rutgers, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, New Jersey Institute of Technology and Essex County Community College in Newark; Thomas Edison State College and Mercer County Community College in Trenton; Cumberland County College in Vineland; New Jersey City University and Hudson County Community College in Jersey City and the Camden and New Brunswick campuses of Rutgers and the University of Medicine and Dentistry.
WHILE the idea of colleges and universities improving their neighborhoods by getting faculty and staff to move in is not new, state officials called New Jersey's program the nation's first to use public money to try to achieve the same result. It is modeled after a successful program begun nearly two years ago by the University of Pennsylvania.
That program has helped lure 175 employees into the Ivy League university's troubled West Philadelphia neighborhood by providing them $15,000 in down-payment assistance to buy homes. It also encouraged 90 more workers who live in the neighborhood to improve their houses, using $7,500 from the university.
Those participating in the Philadelphia program range from a university vice president to members of its housekeeping staff. They join the more than 1,500 faculty and staff members who have used the university's 35-year-old guaranteed mortgage program to finance their homes.
These programs are a way for the university "to plow investment back into the area nearest the campus," said Lee Nunery, its vice president of business services, adding that having faculty and staff live close by also "is a substantial plus."
Estimates are that the New Jersey program could result in the purchase or improvement by colleges and universities of 200 to 300 homes, said Deborah De Santis, executive director of the state's Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency. "Housing is one of the most important components of transforming and anchoring community revitalization efforts," she said, adding that the $10,000 incentive offered under the program "will be enough to entice some people to live within walking distance of where they work."
The targeted neighborhoods in the program were chosen by the state in cooperation with the colleges and universities. Many suffered economic hard times in the aftermath of the middle-class exodus from cities in the 60's and 70's.
They range from the entire city of Camden, where the struggle has been uphill, to nearly half of New Brunswick, between Rutgers College in the city's northern end and Douglass College in its southern end.
There are also smaller neighborhoods like University Heights, a section of Newark's blighted core not far from downtown that is the home of that city's four public institutions of higher education. Those schools formed the Council for Higher Education in Newark 20 years ago and have been working together ever since.
The University Heights neighborhood has benefited from Newark's slow revitalization, said A. Zachary Yamba, president of Essex County Community College, who is also chairman of the council. As an example, he pointed to the development of an 1,100-unit condominium that fills land in the center of the city that was bulldozed of slums, where he said some of his university's employees now live.
"That showed that if an area is safe people will move into it," Mr. Yamba said. "While a lot of work still needs to be done in the neighborhood this program will help expand the circle and encourage new staff members to locate closer to the campuses."
George Hampton, vice president for urban and community development at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, added: "While the amount of the incentive is small compared with the need, if leveraged with other state and federal programs it could make sense."
State officials agree. Ms. DeSantis, of the Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency, said the $10,000 in down-payment assistance offered under the new program could be combined with several other home-loan initiatives offered by her agency if employees from the eligible colleges and universities meet household income and purchase price requirements for those programs.
One is a 100 percent financing option, which will enable borrowers to buy a home with no money down and use the down-payment assistance to reduce the amount of their mortgage, she said. Another alternative is combining the incentive with a reduced rate mortgage with a built-in home improvement loan, which allows borrowers to buy a home and make up to $15,000 in needed repairs.
These loans are available for amounts of up to $218,060 on new single-family homes and condominiums. Income limits for borrowers vary. For a household of three or more, they range from $89,320 to $107,380 in the counties where the eligible colleges and universities are situated. (The $10,000 grants to school employees under the new program do not have income restrictions.)
Commissioner Kenny said the state was also making construction financing available to developers who build mixed-income for-sale housing projects in cities under its Urban Home Ownership Recovery Program. Since it started in 1994 some $275 million has been committed to the program, resulting in the production of 1,942 new housing units, 758 of which were sold at market-rate prices.
She said the College & University Homebuyers Program is another incentive aimed at reintroducing the middle-class to cities. "This is a great start," Ms. Kenny said, "but we will have to see how many takers it attracts and, if necessary, what we can do to pump it up and go from there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campus of the University of Medicine and Dentistry in Newark, right foreground and right, and part of target housing neighborhood beyond. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 
Maps of New Jersey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (89%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (61%); NEW JERSEY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (89%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); DENTISTRY (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



399 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Environment Wins In the LIPA Lottery

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
IT is still too early to tell whether the two solar panels recently installed on Stacey and Jerry Gledich's roof in Massapequa will significantly lower their electric bill. But Mr. Gledich, one of the 30 customers of the Long Island Power Authority who won panels in a lottery, is optimistic.
"We've been told the panels will generate enough electricity to run a refrigerator for a year, and should offset our annual energy bill by about $100," he said. 
 At the Hampton Bays home of John Watson, another winner, panels were installed on New Year's Eve, with plans to wire them to his electric meter by the end of this month.
Mr. Watson said that the program was appealing as a way to generate a nonpolluting source of energy. "On Long Island we are limited as to where we can get our power," he said. "Getting energy that's free, from the sun, is very attractive. Any way that we can lessen our footprints on the environment is good."
As a financial benefit, he expects to save the equivalent of about one month's electric bill over a year. "Five hundred watts of power is not large enough to make a dent in the high power usage of a full-time resident," he said. "If I were a Hamptons weekender, I'd be thrilled."
For the 30 LIPA lottery winners, chosen in November from about 5,000 applicants, the grand prize was not $1 million but a photovoltaic system that harnesses energy from the sun and produces about 500 watts of electricity at peak output. The systems, valued at $4,000 to $6,000, were installed free. To qualify for the lottery, homeowners needed at least 50 square feet of sunlit roof space.
The lottery was part of LIPA's five-year program to support residential solar systems on Long Island. In a collaborative project with New York State and the federal Department of Energy, the utility has committed $160 million toward energy conservation, said the chairman, Richard M. Kessel.
"While the project to put solar electricity in 30 homes is not going to make a huge difference, it allows us to get ahead of this technology so we can expand its use for the future," he said. "We'd like to see tens of thousands of Long Islanders with solar panels. The more people who use the sun for electricity, the fewer power plants we'll have to build, the cheaper it will become, and the cleaner the environment will become."
Photovoltaic systems are built with individual cells that are connected electrically to form modules. As sunlight strikes the modules, the sun's energy is transformed into electricity.
Fred Kruger of Commack said that winning the lottery allowed him to get a solar system free that he would otherwise have installed on his own, he said.
"I already put in a solar panel for my above-ground swimming pool," he said, "and over the next few years I probably would have paid for this myself. I believe in solar energy -- philosophically, scientifically and economically. For now, I anticipate a small savings because we use a lot of electricity, but the key is to get experience with the new technology."
The move toward solar energy is part of a growing trend, said Marc Fioravanti, strategic director of the Utility Photovoltaic Group in Washington, which represents 100 utilities accounting for about 40 percent of the electricity sold in the United States. In recent years, there has been a significant change in the industry, he added.
"Part of that change involves an increasing awareness about the environmental effects of our energy use," he said. "There is also an increasing ability of customers to choose from what sources they get their electricity. More utility companies are looking at this as both a business opportunity and as a customer-service opportunity."
In 1994 the group set up a partnership between the public and private sectors to increase utilities' involvement in solar energy, assess the costs and provide advice on strategy. The federal Department of Energy provided $15 million, which was matched by $59 million from private industry, to finance 36 teams that would provide photovoltaic power to customers.
Last month, the group released an analysis of the project that showed that solar electricity is gaining a foothold in the mainstream energy market, Mr. Fioravanti said, adding, "While nationwide the percentage of utility companies offering solar energy is still small, this is a promising trend."
Solar energy is a natural fit for Long Island, Mr. Kessel said, because sunshine is relatively abundant. Up to now, the main drawback has been cost.
Photovoltaic technology started in the mid-20th century to power satellites in space, Mr. Fioravanti said.
"Since the 70's and 80's, more projects have been developed, especially in places like California and Arizona where there are great solar resources," he continued. "But over the last decade, as costs have come down dramatically, it has become more practical for people to choose solar energy for their homes or commercial office buildings. As more applications for technology are developed, the costs will come down further."
Solar contractors are already beginning to develop lower prices, Mr. Kessel added. The utility estimates that systems similar to those being installed now cost about $8,500 in 1995, so today's prices represent a decline of about 40 percent.
In addition to providing some direct energy free, the panels save customers money by allowing them in effect to sell excess energy to LIPA. If more electricity is generated than a home requires at the moment, the excess automatically flows back to the utility, turning the meter backward and thus lowering the monthly electric bill.
Among the lottery winners, only one home has received an electric bill since being "energized," that of Jim and Virginia Saul of Melville, who were the first customers to have their panels installed and connected.
"On our last electric bill, covering a month and a half, we saved over $3," Mrs. Saul said. "During the summer when there are more hours of daylight, we expect a bigger savings. It's been projected that over a year, we'll save between $125 and $150. But the best part is that when we're on vacation and not using any electricity, we can sell our electricity back to LIPA and make money while we're not even here."
To encourage more homeowners to consider installing solar systems, the utility has announced financial incentives, including a $3 per watt credit for the installation of approved equipment and a program to reduce the interest rate on loans used to finance solar systems.
In 1998, Gov. George E. Pataki also signed legislation establishing a program that allows New Yorkers to claim an income-tax credit of 25 percent on the cost of their solar systems up, to a maximum credit of $3,750 each.
The federal Department of Energy seeks to have a million "solar roofs" in the United States by 2010, Mr. Kessel said, adding, "Our goal will be to have at least 10,000 residential systems installed on Long Island during the next decade."
"What we've learned from this project so far is that we can do more to utilize new technologies to provide electricity on Long Island," he said. "We should also be looking at wind power and other ways to save money and to produce a cleaner environment. It can be done, and frankly, we haven't done enough."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Electricity from solar panels on the home of Stacey and Jerry Gledich in Massapequa, right, feeds through a special meter connection, above left.; The Gledichs, one of 30 families who won solar panels in a lottery run by the Long Island Power Authority, expect an annual savings of $100. (Photographs by Scott Brinton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); UTILITY PHOTOVOLTAIC GROUP (69%); FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UTILITY PHOTOVOLTAIC GROUP (69%); FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); LOTTERIES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (78%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); 

PERSON: JOHN WATSON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000



400 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 2; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Garrison;
Building a Community on the Dream

BYLINE: By LYNNE AMES

DATELINE: GARRISON

 BODY:
THEY were a strange and frightening sight: men in vivid calico overblouses and pajama-like pants, their heads and faces covered by grotesque masks. To call one another to action, they blew on five-foot-long tin horns.
The year was 1844, the place Andes Township in Delaware County, N.Y., in the foothills of the Catskill Mountains. The costumed people were tenant farmers, disguised to protect their identity, protesting the terms of their leases from feudal-like patroons who owned huge inherited estates. The uprising would lead to the death of a deputy sheriff and would be the most violent of the so-called Calico Wars, also known as the Tin Horn Rebellion and the Anti-Renter Movement. 
 The movement, although it did not involve issues of race, will be a focus of "Bringing the Dream Home: Civil Rights and the Hudson Valley." "Bringing the Dream Home" is the fourth annual Martin Luther King Birthday program at the Desmond-Fish Library here; it will begin tomorrow at 2 p.m. with children's performances and continue at 6:30 with a potluck supper and appearances by Pete Seeger, the folk singer and author; Bob Reiser, Mr. Seeger's co-author on a history of the civil rights movement; Pat Humphries, another folk singer; Ron Daniels, a Manhattan civil rights lawyer; and Dmitri Kasterine, a photographer from Garrison, who is mounting an exhibition of pictures of predominantly black neighborhoods in Newburgh. Also, there will be a discussion of the controversy in Peekskill about using surveillance cameras in high-crime neighborhoods. Admission is free; guests are asked to bring a dish to share, but it is not mandatory. The number for more information is 424-3020.
"One doesn't have to look very far into the past or go down South, to see civil rights issues," said Stephen Kent, an organizer of the library event. "Some Martin Luther King celebrations are not challenging; they simply have people mouthing a lot of pleasant platitudes. But we want to present a program that really is about our local communities, a program that will help build community in the true sense of the word."
"Bringing Home the Dream" traditionally concentrates on a historical and a contemporary issue. This year's historical aspect, "The Calico Uprising," is probably better known to people in the Hudson Valley than elsewhere, Dorothy Kubick, a historian from Delaware County, said. The system that led to the uprising was similar to indentured servitude, she observed. Patroons, wealthy Dutch landowners, generally stipulated that a tenant farmer would have to pay rent for a certain number of years and would also have to turn over some of his crops -- "20 bushels of good winter wheat," she said, which was a great hardship. At the end of the rental period, many farmers thought they would be able to buy their plot, but that was almost never the case.
Those who began to rebel against the system gathered in secret. They made masks, which were pulled over the head, with holes for the eyes and nose, so they could not be identified, and they wore brightly colored, loosely fitting calico garments. The tin horns they used to call to one another could be heard across the valleys. When a sheriff came to evict a farmer, the calicos, as they sometimes called themselves, would meet at the site and try to prevent the eviction. Sometimes, one would burn the lease. The uprisings ranged from mild commotions to outright riots and were the talk of the day in virtually every tavern and gathering spot in the Hudson Valley.
Mr. Seeger, as engaging in phone conversation as he is while singing, spoke of the Tin Horn Rebellion in the context of people fighting for representation and better lives within a democratic system. "It's a very clear local example of what has been an interesting phenomenon in American history," he said. "The Boston Tea Party, the Shays' Rebellion in western Massachusetts, the Coal Creek Rebellion in east Tennessee in the 1890's -- these little uprisings sometimes succeeded and sometimes failed. The ones that succeeded usually did so because they got the larger part of the body politic on their side."
What the fruitful uprisings had in common, he explained, was the ability to focus attention on a given issue. The anti-renters, for example, were initially condemned for their violence -- "at first, it looked like the farmers had lost" -- but public opinion shifted as more people learned of and sympathized with the farmers' economic plight.
"All of a sudden, it became politic to favor the farmers," Mr. Seeger said. By 1846, political leaders, as well as newspaper editorial writers, were calling on lawmakers to force the breakup of the big estates. "This really demonstrates the value of getting your message heard," Mr. Seeger said. "I like to say, The price of liberty is eternal publicity. I learned that through the Clearwater. Other people were ringing their hands about clean water and couldn't get an inch in the papers. But look at the value of the publicity we got."
Referring again to the Tin Horn Rebellion, he stressed that violence is, of course, not the only way to get the public's attention. Slave uprisings in this country, for instance, were not successful in stopping the institution of slavery. As for the fight against modern-day racism, he cited the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s intensely powerful and charismatic personality. "He preached nonviolence so forcefully, so eloquently, that people listened."
At the library, Mr. Seeger will sing many songs, including at least one written during the Calico Rebellion. It is called "Big Bill Snyder" and is about a sheriff in Greene County. Mr. Seeger said: "It goes like this: 'The moon was shining silver bright, the sheriff came in the dead of night. High on a hill an Indian stood, and a tin horn sounded through the woods. Get out of the way, Big Bill Snyder, we'll tar your coat and feather your hide, sir.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Image of costumed tenant in Tin Horn Rebellion, above (Courtesy of Purple Mountain Press); print titled "The Inhuman Anti-Rent Murder" (1845) (courtesy of Hesse Galleries, Otego, N.Y); Stephen Kent, organizer of Desmond-Fish Library event. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE COUNTY REAL ESTATE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); SHERIFFS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); HISTORY (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); WRITERS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY (69%); 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000

 
