

1 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 3623 words

HEADLINE: The Sullen Majority 

BYLINE:  By Tim Judah; Tim Judah is the author of "Kosovo: War and Revenge."

 BODY:
I took a taxi to the north of Tehran, looking for the secret basement. In an ordinary street on an ordinary block, I rang the buzzer, opened the door and went inside, and suddenly it hit me: from somewhere, deep in the depths, music. It was coming from underground, literally -- a rich mix of Western rock and Eastern melody.
 A young entrepreneur had opened a semisecret recording studio. That would hardly be remarkable anywhere else, but this is the Islamic Republic of Iran, a country officially dedicated to a fundamentalist vision of Islam defined by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and others in the aftermath of the 1979 revolution. The Islamic revolution rejected the "pollution" of Western culture and values. In that sense, at least, the revolution is now crumbling. 
 Down in the basement, a man with a resemblance to the "Sgt. Pepper"-era John Lennon is rehearsing. With him in the hot, stuffy studio is a bassist dressed in black, a drummer and a 10-year-old Afghan boy playing small tambour drums. Behind the glass, a sound engineer is switching switches and twiddling knobs. A girl in jeans, T-shirt and sneakers is slouched on a sofa with a young man with whom she clearly has rather more than a passing acquaintance. Two other girls are watching the session. 
As I enter this studio, my first impression is that I have stepped through the looking glass right into another country. A country far from the streets above us, with its women in black chadors, vast murals of revolutionary martyrs and throngs of demonstrators chanting "Death to America" and "Death to Israel."
But of course, I am not in another country. Iran is a country with two faces. There are the public face of conformity with Islamic rules and the private face, which as often as not shuns, ignores or even despises those strictures.
Ever since 1997, Iranian politics have been a bitter struggle between reformists, led by Mohammad Khatami, who was elected president with an overwhelming 69 percent of the vote, and conservatives, led by Ali Khamenei, who is Ayatollah Khomeini's official successor. Trying to modernize the Islamic state lest it be swept away altogether, Parliament has passed a number of significant reforms; Iran as a result is in some respects a far freer place. Each reform, however, has been bitterly fought by the conservatives, through indirectly elected or unelected institutions.
Over the last couple of years, the hard-liners have regained the upper hand. But they are playing a dangerous game. Iran is in the throes of a new revolution: a social and cultural revolution every bit as powerful as the one that toppled the shah. While the politicians are fighting, the very ground is shifting under their feet.
In the aftermath of the Islamic revolution, the mullahs forbade the use of contraception, and women were encouraged to be fruitful and multiply. An enormous baby boom ensued. Today, two-thirds of Iran's 66 million people are under 30. But many members of the generation that was conceived as warriors for the ayatollah are now chafing under his restrictive laws, more interested in checking their e-mail than in dying for Islam. Their resentment does not necessarily translate into direct political action, at least not yet; for many it just means getting on with their lives, quietly pushing the boundaries of what is acceptable and refusing to follow official religious practice.
But a vast change is under way, visible everywhere, especially in the sprawling metropolis of Tehran. Wherever there are computers, for example, teenage girls wearing the hejab head covering are bobbing about, headphones clamped to their ears, as they download music from a world away. They are listening to Shakira, watching Eminem videos or instant-messaging boyfriends across town or cyberfriends in Los Angeles. As elsewhere, however, modernization has also brought along all the familiar evils: prostitution, drug addiction and a widespread sense of alienation.
According to Hossein Ghazian, director of the polling firm Ayande, 66 percent of Iranians say they want reform, and 23 percent want radical change. Only 11 percent say the system is fine as is. Asked whether religion and the state should remain intertwined, he says, "Almost 50 percent said they should not be separated, and 36 percent said they should, but if you compare that to 10 years ago, 70 percent said they should not be separated." I ask Ghazian if he would find this research worrying if he were Iran's supreme leader. "Definitely," he replies.
Some of the mullahs have talked publicly about the failure of the Islamic state to engage its young. But many others have refused to acknowledge the situation, much less respond to it. They often compare Khatami with Mikhail Gorbachev, whose example, they say, proves that once you start granting personal liberties, it becomes impossible to maintain control -- and before you know it, the Islamic republic will have gone the way of the Soviet Union. 
They're right. But they're probably far too late. The process they are trying to prevent has already begun.
Back in the studio, the rehearsal session is over. The Lennon look-alike is Farman Fath-Alian, a musician whose latest CD has been blocked, for the last five months, by the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance (known as Ershad). Fath-Alian, who is 31, did succeed in getting his first album released, and he has held some concerts. But this time it is another story. Getting Ershad's approval, like everything here, is always a byzantine process: permission for lyrics, say, may be granted by someone in one office, only to be denied by someone in another.
And so it is that the studio is not legal, nor is it illegal, exactly. Since Khatami became president, some 30 underground studios like this have mushroomed across Tehran, and although they have applied for permission, it has been neither granted nor refused. Like Iran itself, music is in limbo. The authorities don't want to permit the corrupting influence of foreign culture, but they don't want to antagonize young people either.
Fath-Alian's music is familiar to Western ears, but much of it draws from the liberal, sensualist writings of the Sufi mystics. So while the lyrics can be read as religious songs, they can also be interpreted as love songs. O-Hum, a band to which Babak Riahipour, Fath-Alian's bassist, belonged until recently, used a similar approach: the music was vital and modern, but the lyrics were those of Hafez, a 14th-century poet sometimes described as Iran's Shakespeare. Ershad wasn't having it. "First they said the singer was out of tune," Riahipour recalls. "Then they said our music was provocative." Provocative in what way? "Provoking young people to dance and be happy," Riahipour says. Dancing, especially between unmarried boys and girls, is, of course, strictly illegal. (At licensed concerts, audience members stay in their seats, nodding their heads or upper bodies only as much as they dare. "Sometimes there are some courageous boys who head-bang while sitting down," Riahipour says, laughing. "Once I played a concert where there were 5,000 people. One guy got up and started dancing, and they beat the expletive out of him.")
O-Hum got fed up with waiting, so they put their music on the Internet. Now anyone who wants to can listen. 
For the time being, the conservatives at the helm of the Islamic republic have no solution to such easy technological loopholes. And whereas two years ago only 500,000 Iranians had access to the Internet, today that number is estimated at 1.75 million and is expected to grow to at least 5 million in the next five years.
This widespread access has allowed many young Iranians to follow political or cultural developments anywhere on the planet. But even more significant, perhaps, it has allowed people to talk to one another. The computer has become particularly important in the lives of urban girls, often confined at home by traditionalist parents who, by the same token, have absolutely no clue what their daughters are doing online.
A lot of what they're doing, it turns out, is blogging. For the uninitiated, a blog is a Web log, a kind of online diary or journal. Many blogs, Iranian or otherwise, are boring accounts of people's daily lives, or gibberish-like streams of consciousness. But in Iran, bolstered by the anonymity their computer screens provide, female bloggers are catching attention for their daring and articulate mix of politics, dirty jokes and acid comment.
Here a female blogger simply lets rip: "I hate those people who pray and with their prayers make our life a disaster. I hate all those dumb people who go to those marches and shout 'Down with America.' I hate those people I am supposed to bribe for no reason." And then: "I hate cigarettes, I hate men and I hate my emotions as a woman. I hate that feeling of lust and I hate my big nose." In a country where a court can sentence a woman to be stoned to death, and 13-year-old brides are nothing extraordinary, such words amount to the most outrageous sedition and heresy.
And yet what's most remarkable about sentiments like this is how pervasive they've become. Off-screen, in real conversation, people still have to lower their voices and look over their shoulders. But at whatever volume, contempt for conservative mores is a favorite topic of young Iranians.
I met M., a student of industrial design who asked me not to use her name, at a street market on Friday, Iran's official day of rest. She was with three friends, two female and one male. I asked her to name the worst thing about her life in Iran. She grabbed her manteau and said: "The clothes. They are like a torture. I hate them."
M.'s main aim in life, like that of so many young middle-class Iranians, is to leave the country as soon as she can. "The generation that did the revolution has passed, and this one is scared," she said. "It is afraid of everything, afraid to do anything. The only thing we can do is run away from this place."
Talk to enough people like M., and you start to see that what might otherwise sound like late-adolescent bad attitude has taken on the status of political conviction: the country must either be changed or abandoned en masse. Choosing either path will not be easy, especially for people so averse to organizing, but it's only a matter of time. Eventually they will succeed; the longer they have to wait, the greater the strain and the greater the human cost.
More and more young Iranians are turning to metaphorical means of escape. In the wealthier northern suburbs of Tehran, kids pop Ecstasy tabs and smoke dope at secret parties. In the poorer south, it's heroin and opium.
As drug use has grown, so has crime. Hang around the back streets in the teeming, poorer parts of town, and it's easy to spot dealers touting for business. Parts of certain parks, only a stone's throw from the happy families picnicking until the early hours, have also become no-go areas, haunts of violent, armed dealers. Many observers say that corrupt policemen are turning a blind eye in exchange for a share of the profit.
Addiction has grown, too; the number of addicts is now believed to be anywhere between 1.2 million and 3 million. And like anywhere else, drug addiction is sometimes intertwined with another growing phenomenon, prostitution.
In the north, high-price call girls anger their disapproving neighbors by taunting them, bragging that their clients include government officials. Again, down south it's a different story. As dawn breaks it is easy to find chador-clad and probably heroin-addicted working girls sleeping outdoors in certain parks. They tend to cluster around the public toilets, which have become their refuges, affording them a place to wash, as well as to shoot up. As a result, H.I.V. and AIDS are now very much on the public-health agenda of the Islamic republic.
Many of these girls are runaways. They have fled abusive or drug-addicted parents, or they are country girls who saw the big city on television or balked at the prospect of an early arranged marriage. Some of the runaways have fallen in love and had sex; when their boyfriends move on, the girls flee, in fear of their family's discovering that their honor has been besmirched. According to Mahbobeh Abbasglizadeh, a women's rights advocate, an average of 30 runaway girls are found every day, confused and lost in Tehran's parks and bus terminals. "And if we find 30 girls in one day, then maybe there are 100," she says. Once they get to the city, the terror kicks in.
Tucked in the corner of Tehran's south bus terminal, behind a high security fence, is an office that is a first stop for freshly caught runaways and delinquents. Late on a recent afternoon, a girl named Fatimah, who had just arrived on a bus from the provinces, is in shock. Tears are streaming down her face. "I want to go home," she wails. "I want to go to my mother! Call my mother, please -- call my mother!" Soon a police doctor will administer a compulsory virginity test, the result of which may have a profound effect on the rest of Fatimah's life. Shrouded in a chador and made up, she looks 17, but her identity card reveals that she is just 14.
In the next room is the boy she was brought in with. Sporting a baseball cap, he looks smug and relaxed, as though he has been through this before. According to the social worker on duty: "First the boy said she was his wife, and now he says he doesn't know her. Perhaps they wanted to come here just for fun."
Fatimah is wailing that her father is dead and that her stepfather would not have her, forcing her to live with her uncle and cousins. "Yesterday," says Fatimah, now literally gasping with tears and panic, "I was sleeping -- they beat me and kicked me out of the house."
If the authorities determine that she and the boy had sex, they may well be forced to marry. If it is determined that he is working for one of the many gangs that snare runaways to be sold as prostitutes, either at home or in Dubai for onward sale in the Arab world, he may be imprisoned. Fatimah's fate will hang in the balance.
Many such girls are sent home, many still end up on the streets and the lucky ones are sent to a refuge. "Sometimes," Abbasglizadeh says, social workers call the girls' homes, "but they say: 'O.K., we are not worried. You keep her."' Some are as young as 12.
Everyone says that anything is possible in Iran, especially at a price. In Tehran, some surgeons specialize in restoring a girl's virginity, technically speaking at least. This illegal operation costs $50. Abortion, of course, is also strictly illegal, except under certain conditions, like a threat to the woman's life. So the current price of a back-alley abortion can run as high as $500. If the father has fled, Abbasglizadeh says, young women have been known to sleep with another man and convince him that the pregnancy is his responsibility.
Bloggers and runaways, rock bands, prostitutes and girls who just want to have fun are all part of the picture of a young, changing Iran. But of course, they are only part of it. At least one-third of the electorate staunchly resists reform. Overall, these people tend to be older, less well educated and poorer. But it's not always the case. Spend a night at the vast hangarlike shrine of Ayatollah Khomeini just south of Tehran, and you'll notice a strong contingent of young people. As they grip the grille that surrounds the tomb, their faces register an ecstatic calm and some of them, overcome with emotion and religious fervor, simply burst into tears.
Inside a typical mosque in the modest south Tehran district of Afsarieh, young Basijees -- members of Ali Khamenei's volunteer Islamic militia -- are gathered for the evening. Some are studying the Koran while 25 boys, ages 10 to 12, are studying the Kalashnikov. Amir Parish, their 21-year-old instructor, is saying, "The ammunition clips hold 30 to 40 bullets." On cue, the boys shout "Allah akbar!" -- God is great! -- and disband happily for the evening, each clutching a leaflet about the Palestinian uprising. On television here a suicide bombing is called a "martyrdom-seeking operation."
In a corner of the mosque is a memorial to the 58 members who died during the Iran-Iraq war. Inside a glass-topped case, a kind of tableau has been made with sand, boots, a lantern, identity cards, a watch and a bullet-riddled helmet. During the war, the Basij played a key role, with children being sent on "martyrdom-seeking operations" to clear minefields.
The local chief allows me to talk to his older recruits. Abulfazl Youssefi, 21, tells me what it means to be in the Basij. "It means love," he says. "Love of the system and the supreme leader. We will give our life for the supreme leader." The boss weighs in and tells me that three years ago during student demonstrations, the Basij were called in and "we put an end to it." Suddenly becoming nervous, he halts the discussions.
Just outside the mosque, Ali Muhammad Rahimi, 15, tells me that he is in the Basij "because the supreme leader tells us to. I love it. I like the military training and the debates." But only one of his 30 classmates at school has joined him. Ali says the others call him names, "insult the whole Basij" and write "Down with Khamenei" graffiti.
Sitting on a stoop, listening to this conversation, is a 19-year-old I'll call by one of his initials, R. He tells me he has something to say but that it is too dangerous where we are. So we drive some 20 minutes to the nearest park, and there, in the nighttime gloom, he begins to vent. "Among young people especially," he says, "the Basij are hated. In the name of religion, they took everything from us. Whoever does not study or go to school or go to work joins the Basij. Some of them are blinded by religion, but the rest are just opportunists. A lot of these Basijees pretend to be goody-goodies, but they do a lot of illegal things on the side." He tells me about a local shop owned by a Basijee who has decorated the place with pictures of the supreme leader, Ali Khamenei. He sells cassette recordings of Khamenei's speeches, but at the same time, R. says, "he is selling and renting pornographic videos."
Like M. and her well-heeled friends from up north, R. is in college. And like M., he dreams of going abroad. "I love my country," he says. "But if I want to get somewhere in life, it can't be here." He has no chance of getting a visa legally, he says, for which he blames the regime: "Everyone hates us because we are Iranians and Muslims." So the only way he can imagine getting out, to Western Europe, is illegally. Smugglers charge $5,000 to $6,000, far beyond the means of ordinary Iranians, and many Iranians have died on the journey. Even so, R. has begun to study Italian.
While M. and her friends spend their summers shopping or surfing the Internet, R. has to work. He repairs books to make enough money to pay for his tuition. "This neighborhood has been around for 50 years," he says, "and nothing has changed except that they have built mosques. There are no swimming pools, no educational centers and no parks nearby where we live. Even the health center is falling into a ruin, but they don't do anything about it but build and renovate mosques. There is nothing to have fun with, and things are so hard anyway, we can't even think of having fun. Fun is for rich kids whose parents have money."
Suddenly our conversation is cut short. A policeman and a soldier demand to see our papers. The policeman says to us: "The Basij reported you. They heard you speaking a foreign language, and they think you could be spies." We pass a tense quarter of an hour as papers are examined and radio messages are exchanged. Finally the policeman signals that we can go. R. says, "He is annoyed, because he wanted to get some money out of you."
To political activists, the sorts of encounters I had with Farman Fath-Alian, M., Fatimah and R. prove nothing. The generation that initiated the revolution, that is now fighting to defend it or reform it (at constant threat of imprisonment or worse) tends to believe that there are only two arenas in which real change is accomplished, for better or worse: Parliament and the mosques. To these people, the complaints of kids who want to party, shed their Islamic garb or simply do what they want are worse than irrelevant; they are a costly distraction from the struggle for social justice. Several reformers asked me why, instead of talking to jaded students or pushy musicians, I wasn't writing, for example, about five young human rights activists in the provincial town of Hamadan who are said to have been slammed in jail. One human rights activist told me that some observers have said that the greatest achievement of Khatami is that women can show off their painted toenails. "But it is not," he said. "It is this," and he pointed to a bank of computers in his office manned by eager young people. 
He -- and they -- have a point. But human rights activists are just the tip, albeit the sharp tip, of the iceberg. And from what I have seen, that part of the iceberg that remains submerged is large and drifting dangerously. Fath-Alian, M., Fatimah and R. make it clear: the social forces that are reshaping the lives of Iran's listless, disaffected teenagers -- awareness of world events, interest in liberal culture, experimentation with sex and drugs, loss of faith in religious institutions -- are not about to go away. And eventually they will become too great for anyone to hold back. When those Basij boys told me that they would willingly die to defend the revolution, I thought, If their leaders persist in blocking reforms, one day they may well have to do just that. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Fashion-Conscious: For these young women, the clothes are "torture."; The music underground: Fath-Alian, left, and Rishipour, blending East and West; The teenage runaways: Fatimah, 14, above, being questioned after being caught with a boy in a bus terminal.; The religious warriors: Basij boys, left, learning to use the Kalashnikov.; The druggies: Modernization has wrought a traditionally Western form of escape, below.; The Working girls: Young prostitutes sleep where they fall, often in parks. (Seamus Murphy/Corbis Saba, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (85%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (56%); CONTRACEPTION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (55%) JUDAH, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (88%) IRAN

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



2 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
Seattle

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN; TIMOTHY EGAN reports for The Times from Seattle.

 BODY:
Summer lingers in Seattle -- or starts late, depending on your perspective -- which means September is often a bonus month, the days long and dry before the onset of dark-season rains. It can be the best time of year for hikes in the nearby mountains or boat trips to the islands. It may also be the best time for regional food, when the harvest of grapes, tomatoes and apples from east of the mountains joins the fruit of the sea available year-round on Puget Sound.
 This year Seattle has been celebrating a couple of birthdays, while unveiling the latest monument to the city's gilded age of the late 1990's -- a $430 million football stadium with intimate views of downtown. The stadium, which opened last month, is home to the Seattle Seahawks and next door to Safeco Field, where the Seattle Mariners have been selling out nearly every home baseball game in the team's 25th year. 
 And it is the 40th anniversary of one of the city's favorite landmarks, the Space Needle, which has been painted its original color -- "Galaxy Gold" -- from the 1962 world's fair. Standing 605 feet tall, the Space Needle still manages to look oddly futuristic despite the onset of middle age. Memorabilia from the fair is displayed on the observation deck. 
The dot-com collapse and Boeing layoffs have been hard on Seattle, but they have not slowed the city from remaking itself. A new downtown library, new city hall and new federal courthouse are all under construction.
Seattle wears its outdoorsy face year-round, but by the middle of autumn, people have started to turn inward as well, reflected in the opening of the cultural season and the rush -- by some -- to shop in the city's thriving retail center downtown. Foodies are also heading to the shopping district, as many new restaurants there are contributing to an active night life.

Events
Last year was Seattle's 150th birthday, and in some places around the city the sesquicentennial party is not yet over. A good capsule view of how Seattle went from mud-covered logging town to Pacific Rim giant can be seen at the Museum of History and Industry, near the University of Washington at 2700 24th Avenue East, (206) 324-1126, or at www .seattlehistory.org. The exhibition "Metropolis 150: From Wilderness to World City," through December 2003, has artifacts, photos and items from every era of the city's development. Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily; general admission, $5.50.
The Seattle Art Museum, 100 University Street, (206) 654-3100, www.seattleartmuseum.org, is honoring Morris Graves, a painter who helped to shape modern Northwest art and died last year at the age of 90. The exhibition "Morris Graves and Seattle," through Oct. 20, showcases six decades of his work and charts his progress using the moody light of the Northwest in his paintings. Beginning Oct. 17, the museum, in the heart of downtown, will feature one of the world's most significant private collections of modern Mexican art. More than 100 paintings will be on display in "Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and Mexican Modernism," which runs through Jan. 5 (the collection is at El Museo del Barrio in New York through Sept. 26). Open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday; general admission, $7.
The Seattle Opera, (206) 389-7676, www.seattleopera.org, opens its final season in the Mercer Arts Arena next month, with Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin" conducted by Andreas Mitisek with the Seattle Symphony Musicians. Next season, the opera will move to the new Marion Oliver McCaw Hall. Performances are Oct. 19, 20, 23, 25, 26, 30 and Nov. 1 and 2. Tickets range from $35 to $109.
A bookish city, Seattle revels in its literary tradition every year at Northwest Bookfest, (206) 378-1883, www.nwbookfest.org. The event, Oct. 19 and 20, will feature more than 250 authors' readings, signings and performances, with lots of activities for children as well. Bookfest is held at the Sandpoint Magnuson Park, 7400 Sandpoint Way Northeast, on Lake Washington in the northeastern part of the city. Open 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. both days; a $5 donation is suggested.

Sightseeing
The grapes that make the reputation of Washington's best wines are grown in the hot valleys east of the Cascade Mountains, but the winemaking is done, for many of the biggest wineries, in the Seattle area. One of the state's oldest wineries, Columbia, 14030 Northeast 145th Street, Woodinville, about 35 minutes northeast of Seattle, (425) 488-2776, is celebrating its 40th birthday with special tastings, sales and tours. Chateau Ste. Michelle, across the street at No. 14111, (425) 488-1133, offers tastings and tours on its landscaped grounds.
The Washington State Ferry system, one of the nation's largest, is the cheapest, easiest way to get a waterborne view of the city, and what a view it can be, especially with the sun ducking behind the Olympic Mountains to the west and the afterglow burnishing the city's skyscrapers to the east. Ferries to Bainbridge Island, 35 minutes one way, or the Olympic Peninsula town of Bremerton, about an hour, leave approximately every hour from dawn until after dusk from the downtown terminal of Pier 52; (206) 464-6400, or www.wsdot.wa.gov/ferries. Passengers on foot pay $5.10 round trip.
A small speedboat is an easy way to tour at your own pace, going from the industrial clutter of Lake Union to the elegant homes along Lake Washington (the two lakes are connected). Yarrow Bay Marina is a boat rental service in Kirkland, just across the lake from Seattle, 5207 Lake Washington Boulevard, (425) 822-6066. Rentals are $60 an hour during the week, $65 on weekends.
A walk through Pioneer Square, the city's large and vibrant historic district, can take the stroller to the new football stadium, past dozens of art galleries, with ample opportunities for an alfresco lunch. Pioneer Square is on the southern end of downtown. Buses from downtown to the square are free during the day, stopping every few blocks. Schedules and maps are well posted.
Opened two years ago at the base of the Space Needle, the Experience Music Project, (206) 367-5483, www.emplive.com, has become one of Seattle's prime attractions. It's the brainchild of Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft who also owns the Seahawks. EMP is wrapped in a swerving, love-it-or-hate-it design by the architect Frank Gehry. An interactive tribute to American music of the last century, EMP encourages visitors to play guitar, pound on a drum or act like a rock star in front of a virtual audience. Allow at least two hours for a tour. Open Sunday through Thursday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. General admission, $19.95.

Where to Stay
The Elliott Grand Hyatt Seattle is the newest big hotel downtown, at 721 Pine Street; (206) 774-1234, fax (206) 625-1221, www.grandseattle.hyatt .com. With 425 rooms, the Elliott, which opened last year, is near the convention center and major attractions in the retail and business core. Rooms have high-speed Internet service and oversize bathrooms; many overlook Puget Sound. Doubles from $179 to $370.
The MarQueen Hotel, with 54 rooms, 600 Queen Anne Avenue North, (206) 282-7407, fax (206) 283-1499, www.marqueen.com, is tucked snugly into the lower Queen Anne Hill neighborhood, within walking distance of the Seattle Center. With mahogany wainscoting and terrazzo floors, the MarQueen, in a 1918 building, has held on to some of its historic ambience while upgrading the rooms with high-tech gadgetry. Double rooms from $155 to $305, suites from $195.
Budget: In Pioneer Square, the Best Western Pioneer Square Hotel, 77 Yesler Way, (206) 340-1234, fax (206) 467-0707, www.pioneeersquare .com, has 75 rooms. The boutique-style hotel is turn-of-the-century vintage with period decor, though it was renovated about six years ago. Rates range from $99 to $179.
The Days Inn Town Center, 2205 Seventh Avenue, (206) 448-3434, fax (206) 441-6976, on the Web at www.daysinntowncenter.com, is a motel-style inn, near the Space Needle and Seattle Center, with 91 rooms and free parking in a very busy part of the city. Doubles, $69 to $139.
Luxury: Willows Lodge, about 35 miles east of the city at 14580 Northeast 145th Street, (425) 424-3900, fax (425) 424-2585, or www.willowslodge .com, is a luxury hotel that opened in 2000 on five landscaped acres bordering the Sammamish River. The lodge, with 86 rooms, is known for its spa and a restaurant, the Herbfarm, which is a mecca for lovers of Northwest cuisine and takes reservations weeks in advance. Rooms, with stone fireplaces and large soaking tubs, start at $260 to $320.
Downtown, the W Seattle Hotel, (206) 264-6000, fax (206) 264-6100, www.whotels.com, 1112 Fourth Avenue, is a favorite of technophiles and fashion-conscious people dressed in black. The hotel, in a distinctive pyramid-style high-rise, has 426 rooms, which come with two-line cordless speakerphones among the amenities. Doubles from $239 to $395.

Where to Eat
In 10 years, the Belltown neighborhood, on First and Second Avenues just north of downtown, has gone from urban afterthought to dining mecca. The Frontier Room, 1517 First Avenue, (206) 956-7427, is the latest spot to make the transition from neighborhood bar to restaurant. It tends to draw a late-dining hipster crowd for pit barbecue, slow-roasted over apple wood and hickory, with seatings in booths close to a lively bar. Dinners of ribs, beef briskets or barbecued salmon are about $60 for two, with beer. Open for lunch and dinner Tuesday to Saturday.
A parade of boats and the scent of Puget Sound are attractions -- particularly in good weather -- at Hiram's at the Locks, 5300 34th Avenue Northwest, (206) 784-1733. Its deck overlooks the canal that links Puget Sound to Lake Union. Dinners of local salmon or halibut, with wine, run about $80 for two. Lunch Friday to Sunday, dinner nightly.
The Dahlia Lounge, 2001 Fourth Avenue, (206) 682-4142, is a pioneer of modern Northwest cuisine, which balances regional seafood and produce with Asian flavors and cooking styles. The dining room is elegant and muted, with hardwood tables. Dinners of Alaskan salmon or halibut, with sushi appetizers and wine, are about $100 for two. Dinner nightly, lunch weekdays.
Despite a cameo in "Sleepless in Seattle," the Athenian Inn, (206) 624-7166, in Pike Place Market at 1517 Pike Place, has never gone Hollywood. A bar with a large menu and a crowd of regulars, it serves the same straightforward menu for lunch and dinner, with nearly 200 choices. It's a place for chowder, pasta and beer in chilled glasses, preferably enjoyed in a window seat with a view of Puget Sound. About $10 for lunch with beer. Breakfast, lunch and dinner (till 6:30 p.m.) Monday to Saturday.
In a city of distinct neighborhoods, one of the oldest, Columbia City, in the south end of town off Rainier Avenue, has undergone a renaissance, with several good restaurants. Deux Tamales, 4868 Rainier Avenue South, (206) 725-1418, mixes French and Latin, as it sounds, in a restored historic building but with a neighborhood feel. Brie and mango quesadillas, or salmon in poblano pepper sauce, epitomize the mix. Dinner for two with drinks, about $50. Open for dinner Tuesday to Sunday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Seahawks' new stadium. A tour of Elliott Bay. A 1950's hydroplane racer, Museum of History and Industry. Suite at the MarQueen Hotel. (Photographs by Wes Pope for The New York Times and Kathleen Kennedy Knies/MOHAI hydroplane .) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Seattle. (Sources: Runzheimer International, U.S. Census Bureau, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses) Map of Seattle shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); BASEBALL (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); CITIES (74%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); RETAILERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); EXHIBITIONS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (56%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); SEATTLE SEAHAWKS (83%); SEATTLE MARINERS (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) SEATTLE (WASH); WASHINGTON (STATE)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



3 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-1-02; 
Into Their Labor

BYLINE:  By George Packer; George Packer is the author, most recently, of "Blood of the Liberals."

 BODY:
This Labor Day comes at the end of a 12-month period in which the face of American heroism was a worker's face. First there were the dust-covered firefighters, cops and emergency workers, and then the welders and excavators grimly digging all winter, the mail sorters risking their lives, the underpaid soldiers fighting in Afghanistan and, finally, a month ago, the nine grimy coal miners trapped deep underground in Pennsylvania. They tied themselves together with cable 240 feet below the surface of the earth -- an indelible image of solidarity that gave the country a badly needed metaphor and a happy ending as well. The year's only good news was the sudden appearance of half-forgotten virtues like stoicism and sacrifice. Working stiffs turned into bands of brothers and Joe Six-Pack became the martyr, while the rest of us received a measure of redemption. We repaid them in an outpouring of news coverage, political speeches, merchandising and movie and book deals. 
 But this glorification of blue-collar heroes carries an unmistakable whiff of bad conscience. In recent years American life has put a rather low value on honest, unglamorous work and brotherly self-sacrifice. "Solidarity forever" was not a message that made much impression on the post-Reagan mind. In the age of the rising Dow, a wage earner seemed like a has-been, hopelessly out of touch with the opportunities all around. Laid-off manufacturing workers were told to quit whining and get retrained. Staying in the same job for more than a year was a sign not of loyalty but of stagnation, if not failure. The heroes of the decade were entrepreneurs and C.E.O.'s. 
 In the past year, though, we have learned that glamorized corporate chiefs will sell out anyone and that sad sacks with union cards and dead-end jobs are the ones you can count on in a pinch. Imagine being tied at the waist to Andrew Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, with the water level rising and the air supply running out. The limits of aggressive drive have become painfully clear. Those workers who were fast becoming relics turn out to have preserved the only qualities that matter when the crunch comes. Since these were the very people the rest of the country consigned to cultural and economic oblivion, there's an air of atonement in the worship: forgive us our sins of individualism.
But it isn't entirely guilt. Beneath the media fanfare about "heroes," in the divided heart of the upwardly mobile, this romance with the worker reflects a genuine longing too. Who doesn't feel the pull of those values of solidarity as they disappear from the corporate world and much of American life? The restless energy unleashed by high-tech capitalism carried a psychic price, but it took a crisis to make most Americans aware of what has been lost. The narrowness of outlook that ambitious professionals despised now seems appealing: the flip side of parochialism is a sense of community, where time-serving can be a form of steadfastness. In a speech to the rescued coal miners, President Bush said, "It was their determination to stick together and to comfort each other that really defines kind of a new spirit that's prevalent in our country."
The problem with this "new spirit" is that it is based in large part on a sham. The gratitude and guilt and longing are real, but no one wants to be stuck in a hard, mindless, badly paid job with little room for advancement. The typical face of postindustrial working-class life is not a firefighter's or a coal miner's -- it is that of the exhausted Wal-Mart "associate" who has just punched out but is ordered to round up shopping carts in the parking lot. She can't clock her overtime hours because the branch manager needs to show high profits. Solidarity has been preached to her in the form of Wal-Mart family values, but it goes only one way. 
Even the lionized firefighters have been reduced to the grubby embarrassment of contract disputes. "I'm tired of politicians coming to our funerals and telling the widows how sorry they are," Stephen J. Cassidy, president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association, said at a rally two weeks ago. "Pay us a living wage." Meanwhile, the Bush administration continues to pursue relentlessly anti-labor policies. America wants its workers to do everything except ask for a raise in return.
It shouldn't be surprising, then, to learn that Labor Day was born in hypocrisy and blood. President Grover Cleveland signed legislation creating the holiday in August 1894, less than a week after 12,000 federal troops crushed a rail strike in Pullman, Ill. With one eye on midterm elections, he salved labor's raw feelings by giving the country a day off in honor of its workers. The degeneration of Labor Day has continued fairly steadily over more than a century of barbecues, and by now it's probably our least sincere holiday. In the year of working-class heroes, we should do something real for labor, or else we should spare everyone tomorrow's cliches and rededicate the first Monday in September to a cause that stirs genuine passion. Happy Investor's Day. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Greg Miller) Chart: THERE'S WORK TO BE DONE""In spite of oppressors, in spite of false leaders, in spite of labor's own lack of understanding of its needs, the cause of the worker continues onward. Slowly his hours are shortened, giving him leisure to read and to think. Slowly his standard of living rises to include some of the good and beautiful things of the world. Slowly the cause of his children becomes the cause of all. His boy is taken from the breaker, his girl from the mill. Slowly those who create the wealth of the world are permitted to share it. The future is in labor's strong, rough hands." From "The Autobiography of Mother Jones," Mary Harris (Mother) Jones, 1925

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (90%); ANTHRAX (79%); HIJACKING (79%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (79%); MINE WORKERS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); POSTAL SERVICE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); COAL MINING (71%); CHEMICALS (70%); ETHICS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%) LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; LABOR DAY; FIRES AND FIREMEN; POLICE; MINES AND MINING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ETHICS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; POSTAL SERVICE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ANTHRAX; PUBLIC OPINION; BLUE COLLAR WORKERS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: PACKER, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); EARTH (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



4 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: On the Far Side of Day, Some Find Greater Opportunities to Shine 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOEPPEL 

 BODY:
JOHN GRANUCCI was just starting his career as a nurse at Staten Island University Hospital when he got a lucky break.
 It was 1999 and a nursing job had opened up in orthopedic surgery, one that would elevate him from part-time to full-time status, offer managerial experience and the opportunity to go back to school to pursue a master's degree. The fact that the position was on the graveyard shift -- 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. -- did not scare him off. 
 "I grabbed it," said the 28-year-old Staten Island resident and father of a 4-year-old daughter. "It afforded me more responsibility and really opened some doors. I learned self-reliance on the night shift, it really pushed me to another level." 
Mr. Granucci stayed on the overnight shift for about a year, as the nurse in charge. He held a position of authority that he said would have taken him years to achieve had he not applied for the night-time job. With only one doctor covering four floors, he discovered that important decisions on patient care and nursing assignments were in his hands. On the occasionally slow nights, he read medical textbooks and during the day attended Wagner College, with the hospital paying most of the tuition. Now back on a daytime schedule, he has been the nurse in charge of the critical-care unit, a position that, he said, would not have been possible without working nights.
More people than ever are working the night and overnight shifts in New York -- and many of them, like Mr. Granucci, are viewing the hours of toil in the darkness as a rich opportunity to advance their careers. According to the Department of Labor's 2001 statistics, 9.7 million Americans work full-time evening or night shifts, up from 8.9 million in 1997. And the phenomenon is significantly more widespread in the the Northeast than nationally.
In the global Internet economy, the night shift is not just for security guards and emergency workers, either. And it is not the career dead end it once was. Computer trouble- shooters, stockbrokers and Web-based customer service representatives are among the relative newcomers to the overnight world. Retail outlets like Wal-Mart and Home Depot have opened more 24-hour centers, increasing the need for round-the-clock sales and management employees. Comcast Cable recently opened a 24-hour network support center in Princeton, N.J. Companies like Ernst & Young have set up 24-hour help desks for employees. And as more jobs open up, some employees are seeing opportunity for advancement in nighttime jobs.
"Companies are unshackled from the traditional 9 to 5," said John Challenger of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, who recommends that younger clients think of pursing alternative shift positions in the current economic market.
When jobs are tight, the night shift can be a valuable launching pad, he said. Sometimes they offer more responsibility, and that can be especially good if there is a logjam in management. Plus, the night shift often pays 10 percent or more annually, according to David Mitchell, the director of publications for Circadian Technologies, a research and consulting firm specializing in work shift issues. In New York, the average night worker sees about 93 cents more per hour than his daytime counterpart doing the same job, he says.
Latrice Davis, a 26-year-old online editor for The Associated Press Digital news service, says she believes that her switch to the overnight shift in July was a good career move. Her responsibilities include adding photos, video, graphics and audio to major news stories.
"I'm showing my employer that I can juggle many tasks, that I'm running an operation in the wee hours of the morning," she said. "Future employers will look at my credentials and see that I've done it all."
The overnight shift has also given her more time to read and absorb international news stories, an area that previously had barely appeared on her radar. She said being alone requires fast thinking and produces sharper news judgment.
Ms. Davis says she would eventually like to move into a job as a reporter or manager and thinks the skills she is now gaining will be crucial.
Across the river in Secaucus, N.J., Kate Tancos, 29, recently completed a six-month stint on the NBC News overnight desk. An assignment editor who helps coordinate world coverage for the network, she discussed developing many of the same news and decision-making skills as Ms. Davis. As conflicts in Afghanistan, the Middle East and India heated up, Ms. Tancos said she was constantly challenged to be "on her game" and believes that she passed the test.
To be sure, working at an hour when most people are fast asleep has its frustrations. There is no sitting down with the boss for a long chat and no schmoozing with daytime colleagues around the water cooler. Some studies have linked late shifts to higher divorce rates and obesity. And many people have trouble sleeping during the day, meaning they are exhausted much of the time.
"I know a television producer who works overnight who when driving home prays for red lights so she can take a cat nap," said Marcia Stein, a spokeswoman for the the National Sleep Foundation. "It's funny, but it's not funny."
For some, early career experiences working overnights were enough of a jolt to send them running back to the light. Julia Fallon O'Brien, a former New Yorker who now works in Seattle as an information-technology project manager, has vivid memories of alternating graveyard shifts at both New York University and a New York law firm between 1991 and 1995. 
Ms. O'Brien managed a New York University computer lab back when the Internet was just arriving on campus, and often worked until 2 a.m. or 3 a.m in a basement office, two stories underground. Oddly, she says, the center was rumored to be situated above a graveyard.
"There were no windows, just bright fluorescent lights, you didn't even know the time of day," she said, shuddering at the memory. "I did sacrifice both physically and mentally."
At the law firm, she labored as an overnight technical support worker, arriving at midnight and leaving bleary-eyed by 8 a.m. As a single woman in her 20's, her need for sleep during the day and evening often cheated her of the downtown social scene her friends enjoyed.
Such tales of woe are not uncommon, but even so, Ms. Davis of Associated Press Digital sees only the upside to her nocturnal schedule. She has even begun to put together a guide to show her bosses for other employees who might someday follow her to the overnight shift.
"It's a confidence booster," she said. "Whatever sacrifice I make now will pay off later. My efforts are being noticed. It's not a dead-end job. I'm headed on to bigger and better things."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Latrice Davis, an online editor for Associated Press Digital, heads to work. (Matt Moyer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (93%); ORTHOPEDICS (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (84%); TUITION FEES (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOME CENTERS (74%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (65%); NEW ECONOMY (61%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); SECURITIES BROKERS (60%); CHRISTMAS (60%); RETAILERS (60%) LABOR; WORKING HOURS 

COMPANY: J-COS CORP (61%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (52%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (61%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: KOEPPEL, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



5 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Bridgeport; 
$850 Million Plan for Derelict Coastal Site

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
NATURE abhors a vacuum, and real estate developers seem to be in tune with nature in this regard. Lately, they have been homing in on large derelict coastal and riverfront properties in Connecticut that were components of the state's once purring industrial engine. 
 Now, with land so scarce, such properties are dizzyingly attractive to developers, especially when they are advantageously located off major highways, close to railway depots and overlooking that most magnetic element -- the water. Some tracts are under construction at Admiral's Wharf in Stamford and Adriaen's Landing in Hartford while others, in Fairfield, Madison and Bridgeport, are in the proposal stage. 
 Developers see the potential of such sites as communities of offices, housing, shops, recreation, marinas, theaters and public access to waterside boardwalks. Such plans are also of great interest to municipalities looking for new tax revenues to offset school building and infrastructure costs that have zoomed with increases in population. In economically beleaguered cities like Hartford and Bridgeport, the state has a policy of being financially supportive. 
A mixed-use venture proposed in Bridgeport is called Bridgeport Landing, to be situated on the 50-acre Steel Point peninsula bounded by the Pequonnock River, Bridgeport Harbor, Yellow Mill Pond and Interstate 95. RCI Marine of Miami Beach, Fla., wants to develop a 4.85-million-square-foot complex of about 600 rental apartments in several low and midsized buildings; two hotel towers joined to a conference center; 1.6 million square feet of offices; 153,462 square feet of retail space and restaurants; garage and surface parking for up to 6,000 cars; a town square and lighthouse; a marina for 375 boats; a 50-foot-wide boardwalk along the water; a movie theater; and possibly a heliport. 
Estimated to cost about $850 million over a build-out period of 10 to 15 years, according to Edward Lavernoich, project manager for the city, the development is in an early and somewhat combative stage. State allocations have been scant because of municipal scandals in Bridgeport. Allegations of improper practices are also cited in a lawsuit against the city brought by a previous developer whose project was rejected.
In July of this year, Bridgeport selected a new proposal by RCI Marine Inc. and two New York concerns -- Swanke Hayden Connell Architects and the LNR Property Corporation -- as the winner of its request for Steel Point proposals. 
But contract negotiations among the city, state and developer are on a slow track. Last month the state allocated $10 million to the city specifically for the waterfront areas at Steel Point, although the city has requested $110 million. Another $15 million could be available from Gov. John G. Rowland's statewide pool of funds for special projects, said Michael Freimuth, director of the city's Department of Planning and Economic Development. He expects to apply for state bonding of both amounts in January or February of 2003, "after contractual obligations and agreements are concluded and specific items go out to bid," he said.
Some members of the Connecticut General Assembly are disturbed by the refusal of the state to provide all the funds requested. State Senator Bill Finch, a Democrat from the Bridgeport district, says the state is discriminating against Bridgeport. "The bulkheads alone will cost $50 million to $60 million, but all the buildings will be done with private money," he said. "By comparison, the state passed on Adriaen's Landing in Hartford totally using state funds." That project is expected to cost about $529 million in state money and $241 million in private money, according to Matt Fleury, Hartford's director of economic development. 
"I think the governor and the Legislature are stonewalling Bridgeport because of the municipal corruption scandal," Senator Finch said. Mayor Joseph P. Ganim has been indicted on 24 counts involving racketeering, bribery and extortion, and a trial is scheduled to take place in January 2003.
"If you don't want a casino in Bridgeport, you better develop this fast," said the senator, referring to a proposal by the Golden Hill Paugussett Indians of Trumbull, who are awaiting recognition from the United States Department of Indian Affairs. Recognition would give the tribe the option of opening a casino, something 85 percent of the city voters, desperate for economic improvement, endorsed in the mid-90's. But the idea of a casino in Bridgeport was rejected then by the state. 
Rita Zangari, deputy commissioner of the State Department of Economic and Community Development, said, "A sum of $110 million being asked for cleanup and infrastructure is an accurate number, but we need to look at the developer's ability to carry out the plan."
State Senator William H. Nickerson, a Republican from Greenwich, said: "We can and should and will develop Steel Point. It's a tremendous boost for Bridgeport and it relates to Harbor Yard and the Arena," sports complexes recently built across the Pequonnock River from Steel Point. He added, "To put a casino there would be a disaster that would draw life out of the city and choke Interstate 95, threatening the entire state." 
BUT he defended the state's restraint in committing money to the project, citing "major criminal activity in Bridgeport and the need for the state to be convinced that Bridgeport Landing is a prudent investment." The mayor's indictment and guilty pleas by contractors and other associates, he said, "have made the state cautious that a proper selection of a developer is crucial. The city is under a cloud." Some of the indictments allege bribery of city officials by developers and contractors who, according to Senator Finch, were allowed to get contracts by a "pay for play system." 
Bridgeport Landing is one of several projects that are to be ranked for state financing by the Bridgeport Development Advisory Council, initiated by Governor Rowland in July. Under the chairmanship of John Klein, president of People's Bank, the council is expected to make its recommendations in the fall.
Settlement of the lawsuit brought by the previous developer, the Conroy Development Company of Greenwich, has been delayed by the United States attorney's office, which filed a motion to stay the proceeding until after the mayor's trial, according to the company's lawyer, William J. Sweeney.
The Conroy plan, called Harbour Place, was proposed as a $1 billion 1.3-million-square-foot mall with restaurants, a 20-screen movie complex and an IMAX theater. The city rejected it two years ago, and the Conroy company filed suit in United States District Court in November 2001, charging the city with racketeering and unfair trade practices, among other claims. 
John Fabrizi, president of the City Council, said: "I feel we finally have a developer with a strong financial background and experience building on the water. I'm very supportive of this project. But I was in favor of severing ties with Conroy because the council gave him several extensions and nothing happened. I am optimistic, but we have some challenges concerning the state recognizing the developer and entering into the necessary agreements so that the project can apply for state funding." 
Robert W. Christoph, president of RCI Marine, the selected developer, said: "This is an aggressive undertaking, but it can be done in small, bite-size pieces. Each piece complements the previous piece. Each piece can be financed individually and respond to market changes quickly." Mr. Freimuth noted that RCI Marine would be the general partner and there would be limited partnerships for different phases. 
Mr. Christoph expects to buy the property, 35 acres of which are owned by the city through condemnation, in small increments of three to six acres over a three- to five-year period. He must also buy the remaining 15 acres owned by United Illuminating, whose generating plant on the site was demolished when the utility moved to another location in the mid-90's. 
The utility site, the Tallmadge Brothers Oyster Company and the century-old Pequonnock Yacht Club are the only parcels at Steel Point that were not taken in eminent domain. Thomas Rosati, the yacht club's lawyer, said, "The city is forbidden to take the Pequonnock property as the result of a club lawsuit against the city, granting it a stay while it sought another site." Now it is considering an offer by the city to be folded into the Bridgeport Landing marina.
The venerable Tallmadge Brothers' oystering operation is being asked to move its processing facility to the former Carpenter Technology steel mill site, across Yellow Mill Pond from Steel Point, but its oyster beds would continue at Steel Point.
The city is developing "CarTech Point" as a maritime industrial park. Last year the Derecktor Shipyard of Mamaroneck, N.Y., moved onto 23 acres, where it will eventually construct seven buildings. It is considering building ferries that would stop at Stamford and New York, departing from an expanded Bridgeport-Port Jefferson Ferry terminal opposite Steel Point.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The current proposal calls for Bridgeport Landing to be built in several steps over 10 to 15 years. (Swanke Hayden Connell Architects) Map of Bridgeport shows surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MARINAS (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (62%); LITIGATION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; FINANCES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: LNR PROPERTY LLC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (62%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (62%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) BRIDGEPORT (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



6 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Far From Midtown, She's Fallen in Love With the Sea

BYLINE:  By AMEI WALLACH 

DATELINE: GREENPORT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WE'RE ghosting, sailing very slowly in a sluggish breeze, through Greenport Harbor in the 28-foot wooden schooner Annie, which the artist Arden Scott built for herself. We're pointed toward the double granite plinths of Ms. Scott's Maritime Monument, which in a less murky dusk would frame the North Star.
 The monument's two columns are carved at the crowns like racing boats, upended and sinking. They merge as we pass them, then angle apart, as things and people do at sea. We're heading home without the engine, slaloming through a parking lot of boats anchored to densely packed moorings, our sails unfurled to grab any stirring of the heavy August air. 
 Ms. Scott has always done things the hard way, going against the current without giving it a thought. In the feminist 60's and 70's, she stayed married and raised four children, while homesteading a succession of downtown Manhattan lofts that were being displaced by the building of the World Trade Center and the urban renewal that followed. 
She scavenged dumpsters for discarded sails or plastic and cardboard tubing, which she would prop, suspend and bend into abstract walk-through environments. She carved timbers from demolition sites into complex curves with an adz she had learned to use rehabilitating a succession of rotting sailboats. Her day job was plumbing, and the kids tagged along. 
In 1978, priced out of what was by then TriBeCa and dislodged from the City Island boat shed in which she'd been making her art, she found herself a studio in Greenport, a workaday fishing village on the North Fork of Long Island. It never occurred to her that the move to a harbor town 100 miles east of Manhattan would cause her, year by year in slow motion, to drop off the edge of the New York art world.
Now, more than two decades later, a portion of that art world has discovered Greenport and rediscovered Arden Scott at 63.
Through September, Carolyn Lanchner, a recently retired curator at the Museum of Modern Art whose exhibitions included retrospectives of Alberto Giacometti, Paul Klee and Joan Miro, and Richard Eagan, founding director of the former Twining Gallery in SoHo, are organizing an intimate survey of Ms. Scott's work. For three weekends starting on Saturday, Ms. Lanchner and Mr. Eagan are inviting the public into their gardens in East Marion and Greenport, where Ms. Scott's sculptures temporarily flank pools and sprout from flower beds. (A map is available at Mr. Eagan's gate, 636 Main Street, Greenport, from noon to 6.) 
The curves of all these sculptures describe the bones of boats -- dugouts, Viking skiffs, sculls, a Greek vessel suggested by an Attic vase, a Nordic longboat. They are minimal as a steel rod, or dense with twigs, nails, tarred marlin, copper mesh. Abstract or explicit, they take their cues from cave and rock paintings, Celtic sagas, the Maori canoe at the Metropolitan Museum, a clay funerary version of a Mesopotamian skiff. Their diverse vocabulary is rooted in the art of Julio Gonzalez, David Smith, Herman Melville and Buckminster Fuller. They are meditations on the space of the sky amplified by the lines of rigging, or the menacing rush of waves pummeling a hull in an unforgiving sea.
"I have brought colleagues to her studio and they have been as struck by the work as I am," Ms. Lanchner says. "It has a subtle and very elegant beauty that may not be what these times are all about but has an enduring presence."
Like the Maritime Monument, Ms. Scott's sculptures are at once archaic and contemporary; they are concrete metaphors for the ways in which time and space are exposed as relative at sea. It was while Ms. Scott was fulfilling the Village of Greenport's 1986 commission for the monument to those lost at sea that she recognized how implicit boats had always been in the abstract shapes she had been making.
"I'd been using the curve without the image," she says. "But then how many times can you do that? It starts being the same thing."
She found her nautical solution to the monument in the stern of America's Cup racing yachts.
By then she was building the mahogany cabin and laying the teak deck on her own seaworthy schooner in Annie Barstow's boat yard. She launched the Annie in 1988.
"My boat looked very sculptural," Ms. Scott says. "Looking back, there was a logical connection to the sculpture, even though I didn't make it myself. I thought my sculpture was purely abstract, but when I look at old drawings, I see I was using stuff from boats since the mid-60's. I think a lot of abstraction comes from intellectual constructs or visual ones."
Ms. Lanchner says: "For Arden, life and art converge seamlessly. This may account in part for some of the grace and serenity of the pieces, which doesn't exclude a certain ferocity."
In life and art Ms. Scott is a problem solver who appreciates the nuts and bolts of things. Boat making is an ancient technology; she practices it for a living as a seasonal rigger in Brewer's Boat Yard. She is lean and ropy. Her necessary habits of thrift include rolling her own cigarettes. There's another side. She goes to Mass on Sundays, and plays her bagpipes -- the classical, mystical piobaireachd music of the Scottish Highlands -- on land and sea. The elemental and the mythological, the practical and the metaphysical all inhabit her sculpture.
Her 2001 hanging sculpture "Ita" is named after a powerful early Christian female Irish saint. Its materials are primal: eel grass, cotton as translucent as skin and the thorny branches with which young locust trees fend off marauding deer. The hull's cradled curve is a reminder that in some cultures boats were biers, set on fire and put out to sea. In all cultures boats signify the journey of life. The thorns are woven like ancient hedging and feathered aggressively at the stern, suggesting Norse legend, sacrifice and war. Ita, Ms. Scott discovered after the fact, was also the name of one of the American nuns raped and murdered during the civil war in El Salvador in 1980. 
The 2001 "Leap Up and Lick the Sky," after a line in "Moby-Dick," on the other hand, is giddy as a child's drawing. It is a wall piece. Its steel-ribbed belly, mottled at the seams with bronze braising rods, is free form and scantily clothed in a narrow strip of resin-treated cloth. A single buoyant curve insinuates the sail.
Sailing the Annie, or teaching drawing and maritime literature on three-month voyages aboard tall ships for Southampton College's Seamester program, Ms. Scott is well acquainted with the exhilaration and terror of seafaring.
"On the ocean even the most brain-dead nincompoop gets the idea that you're not safe anymore, you're totally out of control," she says. "The weather and the water are in total control and you have to work with them to survive. I like that, that edge."
The edge is patent in her latest piece, the 14-foot-long welded steel "Long Tack Keeping." Its title is taken from "The Bridge" by Hart Crane. A boat is a bridge between man and nature, however insubstantial. Ms. Scott's sculptures are always like drawings in space, but in this case the lines are straight and hatched, as in an etching. They delineate a gondola and the way water quilts around it, altering colors, distorting, confusing substance with the reflection of it. The gondola, upright on a striated base, looks capable of holding its course, but there is nothing in the spaces between the steel rods to keep it afloat.
"Long Tack Keeping" is one of the fruits of a 2001-02 Pollock-Krasner Foundation grant, which gave Ms. Scott time and money to work big and experiment with bronze and steel. It was the first major grant since her 1981 Guggenheim. In the years since the Guggenheim, she has shown mostly in group shows. Her fortunes began to turn when Glynis Berry, a New York architect with a discerning eye, opened her Greenport gallery, Art Sites, two years ago and gave Ms. Scott a solo show.
On board Annie that recent evening, the artist accepts another beer from her husband, Keith McCamy, a mathematician, then tumbles headlong into a story about her adventures the way children do, covering her mouth when she laughs.
"I love boats because they are mysterious," she says, as she navigates an obstacle course of vessels and slides effortlessly alongside the dinghy she built out of green oak scraps and leftover roofing. The dinghy is a story-book fantasy, old-fashioned and beguiling without the extra weight of layered meaning. It's a boat, not a sculpture.
"All that matters," Ms. Scott says, lifting a bare foot over the rail, "is that a voyage is going on."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arden Scott working on a sculpture in her studio in Greenport, N.Y. Left, one of her boat-inspired works. (Photographs by Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. 23); Arden Scott stands on Annie, a boat she built, in Greenport, N.Y. (Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SAILING (78%); FISHES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); ART DEALERS (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (53%) ART 

PERSON: SCOTT, ARDEN; LANCHNER, CAROLYN; EAGAN, RICHARD; WALLACH, AMEI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



7 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
In the Macho World of Jazz, Don't Ask, Don't Tell

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS DAVIS; Francis Davis is the author of several books on jazz, most recently, "Like Young: Jazz, Pop, Youth and Middle Age" (Da Capo).

 BODY:
"I HAVE been asked what it's like being white in a field of music that's considered African-American," the vibraphonist Gary Burton says. "I think it would be equally valid to ask me what it's like being gay and playing a form of music that's seen as macho. It's interesting that the subject never seems to come up."
 Although white jazz fans in particular like to think of themselves as color-blind, it often seems that race is all they ever talk about when the subject is music. There is even a kind of reverse racial profiling that goes on in jazz: white players are pulled over and ticketed for reckless introspection. But whereas race is visible, even if it is becoming less so all the time, sexual orientation usually is not. Within jazz, race is considered a fit topic for public discourse, while a gay sexual orientation is regarded as private, a potential source of embarrassment for performer and audiences alike. 
 It is practically gospel in jazz that a player taking an improvised solo is coming clean, baring his soul, telling us who he is in no uncertain terms. But what if the player is gay? Isn't that as much a clue to his identity as race? 
Mr. Burton's comments came during a panel discussion about homosexuality in jazz at the Village Vanguard in April, which I moderated. It was presented by the National Arts Journalism Program and Columbia University, and along with the writer Grover Sales, the other panelists were the pianist Fred Hersch, the saxophonist Charlie Kohlhase and the singer and pianist Andy Bey. There appears to be a growing acceptance of homosexuality among the general public. Yet the panel was the first public discussion that anyone could recall to address the topic of homosexuality in jazz.
In jazz the rule remains "Don't ask, don't tell." This attitude is ironic because the jazz subculture has been notoriously free and easy, ahead of the beat on most social issues. Safety in numbers may have as much to do as sensibility with drawing gay men to certain professions, like hairdressing and floristry. In general, the performing arts are another area in which the news that someone is gay hardly comes as a shock. But there are ways in which jazz and all of popular music have more in common with baseball than with theater or dance. (Jazz even has its own body of statistics, in the form of discographies, recording dates and musical lineups.) Despite a growing number of female instrumentalists, the audience for jazz remains overwhelmingly male, which perhaps explains why jazz itself remains an enclave of machismo.
There was a time when all jazz musicians were straight, as far as anyone knew. The composer and arranger Billy Strayhorn was a notable exception, but he was perfectly happy to spend his career in Duke Ellington's shadow, which was the same as being in the closet. It was only in 1996, with the publication of David Hajdu's Strayhorn biography, "Lush Life," that nonmusicians learned of Strayhorn's homosexuality. A common objection to Mr. Hajdu's book was that Strayhorn's sexual orientation had no bearing on his music.
Mr. Burton has been "out" to his friends and associates since the late 1980's, when he took a male date to a party at the Berklee School of Music in Boston, where he has taught since 1971 and is now an executive vice president. "My decision to come out resulted from the end of my second marriage," he said. "I was in my 40's and finally came to the conclusion that I was more gay than straight. The deciding factor was that I got a crush on someone who was very out, and in the course of dating him, I had to be out as well. It didn't last, but I was out by then."
Even so, Mr. Burton didn't go public, as it were, until 1994, when he discussed being gay in an interview on National Public Radio. Whatever repercussions he feared, an apparent lack of notice on the part of the jazz press (and by extension, the jazz community) left him more puzzled than relieved. Given his standing in jazz (he has been a consistent Downbeat poll-winner on vibes since the late 60's), it was as if the guest of honor at a formal dinner had noisily slurped his soup or blurted out an off-color remark -- best to look the other way. Except for an article about Mr. Burton and other gay musicians in JazzTimes magazine last year, which elicited an angry letter that accused gay musicians of not swinging (long a white stereotype), the jazz press has continued to shy away from the subject, despite his willingness to speak frankly about being that supposedly rarest of creatures, a gay jazz musician.
In avoiding questioning Mr. Burton about his sexual orientation, jazz journalists may be guilty of nothing more than trying to guard his privacy, or they might feel it's a nonissue. But this reticence seems disingenuous in light of the role that Miles Davis's reputed prowess with the opposite sex played in defining his appeal to many of his male fans. (Never mind the persistent rumors that Davis was bisexual.)
And discretion can be an unintended form of homophobia, said Mr. Hersch. "There are several phases to coming out, and I think most of us went through one when we first told another human being that we were gay," Mr. Hersch said. "We were nervous and looking for the perfect way to put it. Then, over time, we get to where we assume everyone knows and nobody really cares. But the third phase is that in the same way that somebody else might talk about his wife or girlfriend, you want to be able to talk about your boyfriend or lack thereof."
Jazz and gay culture may be antithetical. Although the musicians on the panel didn't feel that they had been ostracized since coming out, only Mr. Bey has attracted a sizable gay following since declaring his sexuality. "Once you've found out who you are, you can express your feminine side, your masculine side, you're not afraid to let it all out, and I think a lot of gay people want to hear that," Mr. Bey said.
But he is a singer, and there have always been jazz singers like Billie Holiday and Carmen McRae with a gay appeal, regardless of their own sexual orientation.
Mr. Burton's experience seems more typical of those on the panel. "One of the surprises for me in coming out was that nobody had ever heard of me and nobody had ever heard of the vibraphone," Mr. Burton said. "I had finally connected with 'my people,' and they didn't care. The kinds of music that are popular in gay culture have a high degree of glamour, and jazz is the opposite."
In a 1984 article for the magazine The Jazzletter, Mr. Sales noted the scarcity of gay jazz musicians relative to the overall gay population and speculated that the reason for this might be traced to jazz's earliest days, when it gave black men an outlet for expressing an assertive masculinity that they were otherwise forbidden to give voice to. Mr. Sales said jazz offered a similar outlet for the first white jazz musicians, who were likewise discouraged from expressing their masculinity as offspring of a genteel society in which music and the arts in general had become overrefined and, in Mr. Sales's word, "feminized."
This is a reasonable enough theory, but it hardly explains why the jazz world -- liberal on most issues -- finds itself at this late date so far behind the rest of the population on issues relating to gender and sexuality. Except for a crack that if Mr. Hersch wanted to be asked about his love life, he should call a tune on his next album "something like, 'For My Lover, Irving,' " there were no hostile comments from the floor during the question-and-answer period that followed the panel. But the Vanguard audience of 100 or so seemed far more comfortable participating in the two discussions that followed, which addressed the economic hardships of playing jazz and the proper roles of critics and scholars -- the usual shop talk at jazz get-togethers.
My lack of success in putting together a more racially balanced panel (Mr. Bey was the only black participant) raised for me the troubling question of whether gay black musicians face more difficulty in coming out than their white counterparts as a result of greater homophobia in black culture. (Some black denominations have a spotty record on gay issues, and hip-hop's preoccupation with thuggery has set an impossibly high standard of masculinity for young black men.) Despite my best efforts, there were no lesbians on the panel, but women may have a greater disincentive in coming out, because they already have so much going against them as female intruders in a music ruled by men. (To some men, a female drummer or horn player is automatically butch, even if she happens to be straight.)
"I know certain gay musicians who are not out who I feel overcompensate by trying to be even more macho than straight musicians," Mr. Hersch said. "And unfortunately, certain women players have also been pressured into higher and louder and faster, with more chops."
Whether being gay makes a difference in playing jazz was a question left hanging by Mr. Hersch and the other panelists, and none of the gay musicians I've spoken to in the months since have quite been able to answer it, either. But this doesn't mean that the question is irrelevant, just that gay musicians are still trying to figure it out for themselves.
"I usually leave the interviewing up to the interviewer," Mr. Burton said, explaining that journalists typically ask him about his latest recording, his equipment and the trials of balancing teaching and performing. "But this undiscussed area of being a gay man, being part of the gay community -- has that affected me creatively? That would be a very interesting thing to explore. But interviewers, maybe because they're not sure how to write about it, stay away from it."
Like the others on the panel, Mr. Bey feels the issue warrants discussion. "You have to deal with the issue of who you are, and it can be a difficult issue if you're living a so-called abnormal life," he said. "It needs to be talked about in order to liberate yourself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Burton at the Blue Note in Manhattan in 1997. He speaks freely about his homosexuality. (Steve Berman); Andy Bey at Iridium in Manhattan in March. Since coming out, he has attracted a large gay following. (Steve Berman/The New York Times)(pg. 19); Billy Strayhorn: gay, but not publicly. (Steve Schapiro)(pg. 21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); DANCE (76%); THEATER (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BASEBALL (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); WRITERS (64%); RACIAL PROFILING (55%) MUSIC; HOMOSEXUALITY; JAZZ 

PERSON: DAVIS, FRANCIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



8 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Godard in Autumn, Analyzing America

BYLINE:  By STUART KLAWANS 

 BODY:
NIGHTTIME in Paris. People have gathered in a bookshop to hear an American journalist read an eyewitness report of the recent killings in Kosovo. We see that his recitation pains a young Frenchwoman -- because he draws out the r's in "murder."
 "The American accent is awful," she complains, to no one in particular. 
 An older man, standing behind her, retorts: "You asked for the Americans. Now you've got them." 
"I didn't ask," she says.
"And your parents in 1944? Your grandparents in 1918?"
Were this little scene to take place in the average movie, it would be understood, correctly, as a slap in the face of conventional French anti-Americanism. But the exchange is embedded in Jean-Luc Godard's "In Praise of Love" ("Eloge de l'Amour"), opening in New York and Los Angeles on Friday, a film that has been deemed to indulge in that same smug fault.
Reviewing "In Praise of Love" last October when it was shown at the New York Film Festival, A. O. Scott of The New York Times characterized Mr. Godard's attitude toward America as a compound of "slack complacency" and "tinny self-righteousness," as banal as it was unwelcome. (It must be remembered that the mass grave of Lower Manhattan was still smoldering at the time.) A case in point: the episode in which fictional representatives of Steven Spielberg arrogantly negotiate to buy the life stories of an elderly French couple, who were active in the resistance. The critic Kent Jones, writing in Film Comment, said that the sense of anti-Americanism that emerged was particularly objectionable for the lackadaisical hauteur with which it was expressed: "It's as if Godard had an assistant lurking over his shoulder -- 'Sir, we need some material to fill in the space between the blue boat and the man silhouetted against the window.' 'O.K., let's throw in another Spielberg joke.' "
Yes, "In Praise of Love" is reflexively anti-Spielbergian. Whether it's peremptorily anti-American is another question. Mr. Godard makes his characters mouth disparaging comments about America and Americans not once but often, and in ways that can make you wince. The import of those comments, though, may deserve investigation.
A good place to begin, I think, is in Mr. Godard's homemade and magisterial eight-part video series "Histoire(s) du Cinema." As its title suggests, this 1988-98 essay concerns the history of the movies and also the stories told by the movies -- subjects that Mr. Godard introduces by juxtaposing two bygone systems of industrial production: those of MGM and the U.S.S.R. -- "the power of Babylon," as Mr. Godard himself rasps on the soundtrack. Onto the screen comes a view of Lenin's tomb, overlaid with the words "Make me a star."
Fans of Hollywood may reasonably object that Irving Thalberg never set up a gulag. But the comparison, like all good instances of cross-cutting, makes each image reveal something about the other. The Soviets organized their autocratic economy to produce a fiction: the fantasy that a single, benevolent genius guided the workers. Conversely, Hollywood produced its fantasies about stars to conceal a reality: the fact that each studio was an autocratic economy.
The Soviet fiction was finished by the late 1980's, when Mr. Godard made the first chapter of "Histoire(s) du Cinema." The Hollywood fantasy, he thought, ought to have died as well, in 1945, when Europe's concentration camps were opened. At that moment, he says in the video, newsreel photographers were the only filmmakers who did not disgrace themselves. "You don't see close-ups in newsreels. Death is not a movie star."
And yet the Hollywood fantasy outlived the liberation of the death camps -- outlived the studio system too and the efforts of people around the world (including Mr. Godard) to establish a cinema that would do more than tell "stories of sex and death."
Even in 1963, when he was 32 years old and in the first flush of success, Mr. Godard seems to have recognized that Hollywood would roll on. Witness his masterpiece from that year, "Contempt" -- one of film's great stories of sex and death -- in which he put a noticeably Godard-like screenwriter into the unloving hands of an American producer.
To the audience, it is neither surprising nor deplorable that this American is a figure of fun, portrayed by Jack Palance with hilarious self-confidence and an undeniable animal grace. What's inexcusable, in Mr. Godard's terms, is that the screenwriter (Michel Piccoli) betrays his ideal of film art (as embodied by the director Fritz Lang, playing himself), makes a mockery of his political convictions (summed up in his Communist Party card) and drives away his wife, who is represented by no less a personage than Brigitte Bardot. A lightning bolt from Olympus, or its modern-dress equivalent, ultimately destroys the overreaching producer, and the wife as well. But this hardly counts as a triumph for the screenwriter, who has reduced himself to nothing without any such grand stroke.
As a work of critical cinema -- that is, as a movie that tells an engrossing story and at the same time raises questions about how and why the story is told -- "Contempt" makes good on the headiest artistic aspirations of the French New Wave. The film is also an announcement, in advance, of the New Wave's demise -- at least its demise in relation to the kind of Hollywood moviemaking that Mr. Godard dismisses as "cosmetic" in "Histoire(s) du Cinema." You might say, then, that "Contempt" is both critical and self-critical. It analyzes an enormous failure of nerve.
Nearly 40 years later, Mr. Godard, now 71, is still mulling over that failure in his new film. Edgar (Bruno Putzulu), the 30ish would-be artist who mopes his way through "In Praise of Love," is much like the screenwriter in "Contempt," in that he disdains Hollywood's ability to reduce everything to "a story with Julia Roberts." Edgar also resembles the screenwriter in being utterly ineffectual. He leaves projects unfinished. He gets by on financing (or, more bluntly, a handout) from an old family connection. He doesn't even know whether the new work he has in mind -- a project about the phases of love, as experienced by people at different stages of life -- will be a film or a play. On occasion, we see Edgar leafing through an expensively bound notebook full of blank pages. There is no reason to expect that he'll fill any of them.
FINALLY, like the screenwriter in "Contempt," Edgar has a talent for pushing away women. He pursues Berthe (Cecile Camp) for reasons that may be both artistic and romantic and then drops her, as he drops everything. When asked why, Edgar can think of no better response than "She was a letdown."
"No," comes the unanswerable reply. "You're the letdown."
I'd suggest, then, that we shouldn't take Edgar's opinions too literally, either in themselves or as a credo from Mr. Godard. When Edgar criticizes something he calls America, he perhaps does not mean a large and complex nation that has done some good in the world (in 1944, in 1918) but rather is pointing to the world's dominant source of fantasies about stars. It is arguable, but not patently unfair, to say that this America spreads a false universalism -- one that unites the globe in the simplemindedness of commercial entertainment, and all its related products. (Had Mr. Godard confined his example to "The Matrix" and left Spielberg out of it, perhaps all this would be more clear.) On the other hand, Edgar mounts no credible resistance to what he calls America. He is a letdown.
And what about Mr. Godard? How credible is his resistance to the evils of this world?
As "In Praise of Love" reveals, his work has changed in the last dozen years, during what seems to be his autumnal period. The Brechtian signboards have multiplied, to the point that practically every line of dialogue is a quotation from a literary source or a venerable film. The soundtrack, too, has grown more dense, swirling and flowing with a life of its own. Meanwhile, the actors have diminished in importance (no more personalities on the scale of Palance, Piccoli, Bardot). Mr. Godard now treats them as just another set of elements in his editing mix. There's no longer much of a sense that the camera is probing the outside world. What you see and hear seems internal to Mr. Godard.
And what you see and hear is gorgeous: lyrical, heartbreaking, exquisite, sure. "In Praise of Love" gives us the autumnal Mr. Godard performing at the highest level of his art, doing what he knows and loves better than almost anyone. That's his resistance.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruno Putzulu in Jean-Luc Godard's "In Praise of Love": America is not the only problem. (Manhattan Pictures International)(pg. 7); In "Contempt," Michel Piccoli is a screenwriter who betrays his art. (Brigitte Bardot plays his wife.) (Strand Releasing)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); MURDER (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); BOOKSTORES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (54%) GODARD, JEAN-LUC; KLAWANS, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (88%); FRANCE (73%)

TITLE: IN PRAISE OF LOVE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



9 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Squeezing Yourself Out (for the Company)

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SANTIAGO 

 BODY:
HALFWAY into it, Hugh C. Martin realized that the merger he had initiated to protect his fiber optic company would cost him his job.
 Mr. Martin had joined the company, ONI Systems of San Jose, Calif., as chief executive in 1998, shortly after it was started. By 2000, ONI, a maker of equipment for routing phone calls and computer data, had become one of the fastest-growing companies in Silicon Valley. 
 But last year, an "economic buzz saw" threatened the bandwith industry, he said, and even a cost-cutting drive that cut his own salary to $1 from $295,000 didn't help. So he started looking for a corporate partner.
He soon learned firsthand a business principle akin to the law of physics that says no two bodies can exist at the same time in the same place: When two companies wed, there can be only one surviving boss.
Those who are asked to step aside rarely like to talk publicly about the experience. But now, taking the summer off to sail around Martha's Vineyard with his family and to ponder what to do next, he has agreed to tell about his.
Four years ago, Mr. Martin caught the attention of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm that was one of ONI's original backers. With a track record that included positions as head of desktop engineering at Apple Computer and president of 3DO, a video game start-up, he was brought into Kleiner as an entrepreneur in residence.
Kevin Compton, a partner at Kleiner, then offered him the top job at ONI. "He told me, 'You will work harder than you ever have before in your life, but I have the feeling you will make more money than you can ever imagine,' " recalled Mr. Martin, now 49.
He began by luring optical engineering talent from competitors like Nortel Networks. He also staked out an early claim in a relatively overlooked niche, technology for high-speed video transmission adapted to a more lucrative telecom market.
The company focused on fiber optic gear that brokers data traffic within cities after the data travels between cities. When ONI got into the game, most telecom equipment vendors offered only long-haul products, as carriers rushed to build a national fiber optic infrastructure.
All those fiber optic lines crisscrossing the country, however, were still at the mercy of the copper wires to which they connected upon entering their urban destinations. "If you've got something that runs a million miles an hour that connects to something that runs one mile an hour, then everything runs at one mile an hour," said Mr. Compton, who was also an ONI board member.
So ONI made a play for that missing piece of the network, equipment for local applications. Mr. Martin saw an opportunity "to go build another Cisco" and to focus on customers like SBC Communications and Verizon. By last year, ONI's revenue had increased to $195.7 million and its market share to 25 percent.
That was quite an achievement against rivals like Nortel and Lucent Technologies, yet the industry's recession didn't spare ONI. As orders fell, expenses kept ahead of revenue and ONI never made a profit. Larger carriers started gobbling up the weak and worrying about equipment companies like ONI, asking whether they would still be around in two or three years. These carriers sought more critical mass from vendors offering complete product lines in both long- and short-haul equipment. Competition intensified for fewer equipment deals of greater value.
"SOME of these contracts are worth a billion dollars over four years," Mr. Martin said. "And the risk that we would lose that business, because we weren't this large established broad-product-lane supplier, got high enough that I felt it was important to consider alternatives."
By last December, Mr. Martin decided that the answer was partnership with another midsized company, and he made overtures to the Ciena Corporation of Linthicum, Md. Early discussions of a possible alliance quickly blossomed into merger talks. 
As they progressed, he says, it didn't occur to him that he might soon be out of a job. He focused on saving ONI and persuading employees and shareholders to go along.
Some of them, he said, were thinking like this: "If you have a great product and you are a leading contender for some of these large pieces of business, why on earth would you sell or merge the company?"
His response: "I think Ciena is extremely undervalued right now, and so, going in as part of Ciena, if we go win one of these big deals, our shareholders will see as much appreciation as they would have seen on a stand-alone basis."
Then, as the talks progressed, Ciena officials broke the news to him. "They politely said to me, 'This all makes sense, we are extremely interested in doing the deal, but we don't see a role for you,' " he said.
"It was depressing to me because I really wanted to help integrate our company into that company and then take a leadership role," he added.
Recovering from the news, he realized they were right. Staying would have diluted upper management's authority and confused everybody else, so he bowed to the inevitable.
He even made light of his fate. "Oh, he had a great sense of humor," said Gary Smith, Ciena's chief executive. "He'd say, 'You know, I know there can only be one C.E.O., and Gary got the short straw.' "
Inside, though, he was still smarting. "Here it was my idea," he said. "We are going to glue these two things together and I think it's going to be a huge success. And I have to watch from the sidelines."
An agreement for Ciena to acquire ONI in a stock transaction was reached in February, yet he was still feeling pangs of regret as he dined on crab cakes and Champagne during the signing ceremony in June.
"That was my all-time low point," he said. "It took about a month for me to adjust, reconcile and say 'O.K., I'm going to move on.' "
He remains a consultant to Ciena and owns shares worth about $15 million that he received in exchange for his shares in ONI.
He is upbeat about his prospects. "I will probably eventually start another company, he said. "Now I have a reputation. I can be selective about what I go do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hugh C. Martin, who was chief executive of ONI Systems, belatedly realized that there was no role for him after he found a corporate partner to save the company. The company was bought by Ciena in June. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (62%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (82%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CIENA CORP; ONI SYSTEMS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: SANTIAGO, WILLIAM; MARTIN, HUGH C 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



10 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: A Big Pay Raise Awaits the Next Governor 

BYLINE:  By VIRGINIA GROARK 

 BODY:
AS Gov. John G. Rowland and Bill Curry, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, vie for the state's top seat in government, what many voters may not realize is that the winner of this fall's election will receive a salary that is nearly 100 percent more than the current pay for the post.
 Starting in January, the state's top elected official will receive $150,000, up from $78,000. In the process, Connecticut's governor will go from being one of the lowest paid in the country to one of the highest paid. 
 The pay hike comes at a time when the state is grappling with budget shortfalls and reductions that have forced places like the University of Connecticut Health Center to freeze managerial salaries. But the chairman of the commission that recommended the governor's raise said it was long overdue. 
"I think that a pay raise to $150,000 from $78,000 is not unseemly given the fact that there has been no raise in 15 years," said Bruce D. Rubenstein, chairman of the Commission on Compensation of Elected State Officials and Judges.
In fact, by private sector standards, the occupant of the governor's office will still be underpaid, according to several compensation experts.
"One hundred fifty thousand today for a chief executive is quite a bargain," said Judith Fischer, managing director of Executive Compensation Advisory Services in Alexandria, Va. "I'm sure if they sat down and worked it out on a per hourly rate it would be a real steal."
The last time the governor had a pay increase was in 1987, according to a report by the compensation commission. The independent commission, which in 2000 recommended a series of salary increases for statewide office holders, found that at the time the governor's salary ranked 42nd in the country.
The new salary will make the governor the fourth highest paid in the country behind New York, California and Illinois, according to "The Book of the States 2002," which is published by the Council of State Governments. 
In fact, since the office has not had a pay increase in so long, many state employees, including members of the governor's staff, have salaries that exceed the governor's, according to the commission.
"While salaries for public officials will never equal those for private-sector administrators with similar responsibilities, the unfavorable relationship of the governor's salary level to those of subordinate managers needs to be addressed," the commission wrote in a report in February 2000.
Why the governor's pay has remained flat for such a long time can be traced to sensitivity to the public's often negative reaction to pay increases for public servants. In fact, when a bill was introduced in 1998, an election year, to increase the pay of legislators and other statewide offices, a raise for the governor was eliminated at the last minute after Mr. Rowland threatened to veto it if it was included.
Consequently, the commission urged the legislature to adopt the pay raises well in advance of the next gubernatorial election to avoid making the subject a political football.
"The commission recommends taking care of this now, well before the beginning of the next campaign for statewide elected officials," the commission wrote. "As we approach the election, the issue of salaries becomes more politically sensitive."
In June 2000, the General Assembly did just that, and not only increased the governor's salary but increased the pay of the lieutenant governor, secretary of the state, treasurer, comptroller and attorney general. The occupants of each of those statewide offices will receive $110,000, starting in January.
Two years later, however, the economy is struggling and some of those raises may seem extravagant at a time when temporary state workers have been told not to come to work and some institutions are considering layoffs.
"Obviously it's a bad time for the governor to get such a big salary increase when so many other people are hurting," said Howard Reiter, a political science professor at the University of Connecticut. "So the timing is not good politically."
But, Mr. Rubenstein noted, there was no way the commission could predict what the economy would look like in 2003.
"We don't have the ability to foresee what the economic situation will be two years after we pass reform legislation," Mr. Rubenstein said. "If we had the ability of hindsight it might have been a different story, but we don't have that ability. We are only human."
But a 92.3 percent raise?
"We are not rewarding anybody's performance," said Mr. Rubenstein, who is a Democrat. "We are not saying that Governor Rowland did a good job at all or a bad job. This has nothing to do with his performance in office. The voters will decide his performance in office. This has to do with the office and not the person in the office."
Others said that the role of the governor, who oversees a $13.2 billion budget and about 52,000 employees, is comparable to the chief executive officers of private companies. If that is the case, then even with the $150,000 salary, he is underpaid.
In fact, under the current salary structure, the governor's pay is just a little more than the average salary for a construction manager or a veterinarian, according to 2000 occupational wage statistics from the state Department of Labor. The salary increase will put the governor in line with an anesthesiologist whose average salary in 2000 was $144,940, according to the Department of Labor.
"That's not very much is it?" said Graef Crystal, a compensation expert in Las Vegas. "If you compare it to the private sector, you couldn't pay the governor enough to do that job."
A chief executive officer of a company with tens of thousands of employees, like the state of Connecticut, would probably make anywhere from $10 million to $15 million a year, Mr. Crystal said. 
"So it's one of those things," he said. "Dig as deep as you can. Pay him as much as you can, because there's no danger of overpaying the bloke."
That said, Mr. Crystal noted that the perks the governor receives, such as a state trooper who drives him, a car and the executive residence, increases the value of his compensation. And, he added, the job does have clout. That is one reason the public has never advocated for large salaries for public servants. 
"So the general perception among the American public is that you can trade money for prestige," he said. "There's a literal trade off there. So if you want to have the Connecticut 1 license plate, the howling motorcycle sirens and all of that stuff, then we don't pay you much."
Mr. Reiter said the prestige is why there will probably never be a dearth of candidates for governor, even though Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura said that one reason he opted not to run for re-election was the low pay, which in his state is $120,000.
But Mr. Reiter said that despite a frequent negative public reaction to increasing the pay of public servants, adequate compensation plays a critical role in a democratic government.
"In principle I don't have any problem with higher salaries for public officials because you don't want to create a situation where only wealthy people would be willing to take on those jobs," he said. "It would be a shame where just people with either connections to wealthy individuals or who are wealthy themselves can run for these offices." 
But, Mr. Reiter added, the salaries for public officials will never compete with comparable jobs in the private sector.
"I don't think they should," he said. "You don't want anybody running for public office simply because it's going to line their pockets." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Connecticut's governor will soon go from being one of the lowest paid in the country to one of the highest paid. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUDGETS (55%) GOVERNORS (US); WAGES AND SALARIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%)

PERSON: ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); CURRY, BILL; GROARK, VIRGINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



11 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1740 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Fort Greene; 
Diversity, Culture and Brownstones, Too

BYLINE:  By NANCY BETH JACKSON 

 BODY:
SPIKE LEE has relocated to the Upper East Side and Spike's Joint, his boutique at the corner of South Elliot Place and Lafayette Avenue, is history, but the filmmaker's lens still frames the image of Fort Greene, the Brooklyn neighborhood where he grew up. When he began his career with the 1986 comedy "She's Gotta Have It," he drew upon the world he knew best: the artsy, well-educated, African-American middle class that has thrived in Fort Greene since the mid-19th century.
 "I thought the entire neighborhood would look like it came right out of a Spike Lee film," said Joanna Gonzales, a 29-year-old television producer from Los Angeles, who recently studied Fort Greene in a graduate journalism seminar at Columbia. 
 She imagined an affluent black neighborhood where everyone lived in brownstones. Instead, she discovered racial and economic diversity and a "prevailing sense of racial amity" that intrigues sociologists and attracts middle-class residents from other parts of the city. 
"People move to and remain in Fort Greene because they want to live in a tolerant, relaxed neighborhood, not a homogeneous one that resists strangers," Jan Rosenberg, a Long Island University sociology professor, concluded in a 1998 report on policy development for the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Fort Greene, named after Nathanael Greene, a Revolutionary War general who was in charge of building a fort there, has had its ups and downs, but these days it is a hot real estate market. The neighborhood's diversity, proximity to Manhattan, fine 19th-century town houses, relative affordability and cultural life draw young professionals, black and white, who are more likely to work on Wall Street or in law firms than recite poetry at coffeehouses. 
Added into the mix are the French, who have opened bistros, food shops and sidewalk cafes and also come as tourists, guidebooks in hand, after reading items about Fort Greene in the Parisian press. "It's this season's hottest neighborhood in Paris," said the Rev. David Dyson, minister of the Lafayette Presbyterian Church, who heard about the publicity blitz through one of his French parishioners.
On the edge of downtown Brooklyn, Fort Greene is anchored by the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Fort Greene Park and the Atlantic Center, a 26-acre retail and housing complex that introduced chain stores like Macy's and Old Navy into a neighborhood of locally owned shops and boutiques. The IRT, BMT and Long Island Rail Road converge under the center, creating what Gov. George E. Pataki called "the busiest transportation hub in Brooklyn" when he recently announced a $200 million project to spruce up the terminal complex. A second shopping mall, to be built above the terminal, has already signed leases with retailers like Victoria's Secret and Gap.
Most of the real estate activity is south and east of Fort Greene Park, the traditional economic divide in the neighborhood, but revitalization is also beginning along Myrtle Avenue, the northern edge of the Fort Greene Historic District, which was designated in 1978.
Some longtime locals fear being priced out; other residents, old and new, fear that development will destroy the vibes that drew them to the neighborhood.
"We joke about it, but this has become the land of the buppies -- black urban professionals," said Ibrahim Abdul-Matin, a 25-year-old whose grandfather came to Fort Greene as an Army lieutenant in World War II. Mr. Abdul-Matin, a science fiction writer and youth programs director at the Prospect Park Alliance, still sees the neighborhood as his muse, but he worries that the Brooklyn Moon, a Fulton Street coffeehouse with legendary Friday night poetry readings, may become just another Villagelike bar.
THE community's history began and almost ended with the 260-acre New York Naval Shipyard on Wallabout Bay. After the Brooklyn Navy Yard, as it is usually called, was commissioned in 1801, craftsmen -- freed slaves and Irish, English and German immigrants -- settled on the adjacent farmlands. Walt Whitman lived in the working-class neighborhood when he edited The Brooklyn Eagle.
By 1840, the shipyard was the largest Navy construction facility in the country. During the Civil War, more than 6,000 craftsmen labored there, with Fort Greene developing as its commercial center. Colored School No. 1 opened at St. Edwards Street and Park Avenue in 1847 for the children of black workers. By 1870, more than half of the blacks in Brooklyn lived in Fort Greene, most of them north of Fort Greene Park.
In the 1850's through 1880's, an elegant neighborhood developed south and east of the park in three- and four-story row houses of brick and brownstone, built by speculators to attract families from Manhattan and beyond. Abolitionists formed the Lafayette Presbyterian Church in 1857, establishing its tradition of activism by offering a forum to speakers like Frederick Douglass and Harriet Tubman and aiding runaway slaves. 
The church, mirroring the neighborhood's demographics, is now about two-thirds black and one-third white, with a gospel choir that opened the TriBeCa Film Festival this year. Mr. Dyson, a white former union organizer, makes sure the church is a forum on social issues.
"There's great housing stock, trees, a kind of bohemian character and wonderful music, art and theater in the community, but nobody wants another Lincoln Center with everything pulled down," Mr. Dyson said.
World War II brought a significant change to Fort Greene, with many row houses converted into rooming houses and a government housing project built on Myrtle Avenue to accommodate workers. After the war, whites began to desert both public housing and row houses. In 1944, wartime housing was built that later became the public housing complex called the Walt Whitman and Raymond V. Ingersoll Houses, made up of 3,500 units on 38 acres.
The shipyard's decommissioning in 1966 increased white flight. BAM was covered with graffiti, its performing arts spaces turned over to martial arts classes.
Fort Greene descended into urban decay, with one section of its ghetto nicknamed the Jungle. The Pratt Area Community Council was organized in 1964 to improve the quality of life by encouraging homeownership. Slowly, Fort Greene revived as residents and major institutions in the area acted to reclaim the neighborhood. When Mr. Lee established his Forty Acres and a Mule Filmworks in the 1980's, Fort Greene's artistic life was being compared to the Harlem renaissance.
The community spirit is what attracted Nazli Parvisi, an Iranian-born Barnard College graduate who never dreamed of living in Brooklyn until a friend encouraged her to buy in Fort Greene two years ago.
"Fort Greene isn't like Williamsburg, where a whole pack of kids come in and take over the neighborhood," said Ms. Parvisi, 25, an assistant program director at the Social Science Research Council and co-owner of a catering service called the Night Kitchen. "They couldn't do it here even if they wanted to, because the neighborhood has a strong backbone and always has." 
Although she commutes to Midtown Manhattan to work, she finds almost all her social life within walking distance of her apartment. She shops in the African-American designer boutiques on Fulton Street and drops in on Thursday nights at Frank's Lounge to hear Ronnie Youngblood, the saxophonist, deliver rhythm and blues to an audience diverse in age as well as race. Her Manhattan friends are eager to join her in the nightclubs along De Kalb Avenue and in local restaurants that offer African, Cambodian, Middle Eastern, Japanese and European cuisine.
Finding it cheaper to own in Fort Greene than rent in Morningside Heights, she bought a studio in a doorman building south of the park for $93,000. Real estate agents say Fort Greene studios now go for around $130,000. Although still less than in Manhattan, real estate prices have soared.
"One million dollars is the magic number for a town house now," said Dale Smith, a lawyer from the Virgin Islands who has rented in Fort Greene for four years. "I think I'm priced out of the neighborhood already."
He and his wife, Alicia, a University of Pennsylvania law graduate and a full-time mother, recently moved to a brownstone garden duplex when their former landlord decided to put the brownstone in which they rented on the market for $1.25 million.
"The cost of real estate is past outrageous," Mrs. Smith said. "And who wants to spend a million dollars when you can't send your children to school here?"
Public education in Fort Greene ranges from schools with some of the city's lowest test scores to the prestigious Brooklyn Technical High School and the Benjamin Banneker Academy, a two-year-old charter school with 200 students from kindergarten through third grade and 160 more on the waiting list. The Queen of All Saints School, which has kindergarten though eighth grade, had openings only in kindergarten and sixth grade this year and is limited by space to 250 students. Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School, where Rudolph W. Giuliani was a graduate, has around 900 students. Such schools draw from beyond the immediate neighborhood.
Newcomers praise the Dillon Child Study Center preschool, staffed by St. Joseph's College master teachers, but they look to Brooklyn Heights or Manhattan private schools for their older children. Long Island University, Polytechnic University and the Pratt Institute also have campuses in Fort Greene or neighboring Clinton Hill.
THOUGH fears about displacement from gentrification continue, the old neighborhood will not go quietly, if at all. 
In January, the Pratt Area Community Council established the Displacement Watch to help residents given 30-day eviction notices by landlords of unregulated town house properties. The council holds weekly meetings for tenants, negotiates with landlords and organizes letter-writing campaigns, prayer vigils and demonstrations.
"A lot of these tenants -- working-class people like nurses and teachers -- are the backbone of the community," said Gabriel Thompson, an organizer for the council. "They remember when they couldn't walk on the streets after 6 p.m. because of the crime and lived through that. They're not saying that they don't like the new restaurants and safer streets, but they want to stay and enjoy some of it."
Mr. Dyson added: "Fort Greene used to be one of Brooklyn's best-kept secrets. But I guess the secret is out."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 1 about living in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn misstated the grade level and number of students of the Benjamin Banneker Academy, as well as its age. (The facts shown were were for the Community Partnership Charter School.) Banneker is for Grades 9 through 12, not kindergarten through 3; it has 630 students, not 200; and it has existed for nine years, not two.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Town houses on Cumberland Street; a sidewalk cafe on DeKalb Avenue, right; and Prison Ship Martyrs Monument in Fort Greene Park, below. (Photographs by Edwine Seymour for The New York Times); 1-bedroom, 1-bath co-op at 149 Lafayette Avenue, $220,000. 16-room two-family brownstone at 25 1/2 St. Felix Street, $899,000. 15-room two-family town house at 46 South Portland Avenue, $1.25 million. Chart: "GAZETTEER"POPULATION: 30,698 (2000 census).AREA: 0.71 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $32,737 (2000 census).MEDIAN PRICE OF TWO-FAMILY TOWN HOUSE: $950,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $2,500 to $3,000.MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $850,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $650,000.MIDRANGE RENT ON 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,700.DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 6.1 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 26 minutes. The 2, 3, 4, 5, Q, W, N, R, M, J, Z and the Long Island Rail Road all stop at the Atlantic Avenue/Pacific Street station. The A and C trains stop at Lafayette Avenue.GOVERNMENT: City Councilman James Davis (Democrat).CODES: Area, 718; ZIP, 11217, 11238, 11205.LUNGS OF THE CITY: Fort Greene never was much as forts go. Gen. Nathanael Greene hurriedly built Fort Putnam on a hill in the Brooklyn plain in 1776, but the British soon routed the rebels. As another war threatened in 1812, residents dug a few trenches and built some barriers, naming their fortification after General Greene. While editor of The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, Walt Whitman called the hill the "lungs of the city" and campaigned for Brooklyn's first park, originally called Washington Park, which was created in 1848 Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, who later designed Central Park, added shady walks and open grassy spaces in 1864 to produce "a somewhat rural character." The Prison Ship Martyrs Monument, a 148-foot-high Doric column designed by McKim, Meade & White and dedicated in 1908, honors the Revolutionary soldiers who died in British prison ships anchored in Wallabout Bay. Richard Wright wrote parts of "Native Son" in Fort Greene Park in the late 1930's, but by the 1970's, few dared even walk through it. The 30-acre park is now again full of activity. Among the activities are tennis courts, playgrounds, concerts and herb identification walks. There is also a Web site at www.fortgreenepark.org. Map of Brooklyn highlights Fort Greene.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); TRENDS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CITIES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: JACKSON, NANCY BETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; FORT GREENE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



12 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: A Water-Wealthy Island Considers Desalination Plants 

BYLINE:  By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
OFFICIALS are considering whether to build desalination plants, the first on Long Island, to deal with a water shortage that forced Shelter Island to truck in drinking water last month after two of its public wells ran dry.
 Arthur R. Williams, the Shelter Island supervisor, said the town government was also weighing running a water pipeline nearly a mile to North Haven to pump water from the Suffolk County Water Authority, or drilling new wells. He said he favors the latter option. 
 "I think we'll find more water," Mr. Williams said. "I'd like to start drilling in the next couple of weeks." 
The water supply for Shelter Island and the rest of Long Island comes from underground aquifers estimated to hold enough freshwater to supply its inhabitants for as long as 450 years. But some coastal areas have experienced an increase in saltwater intrusion, which happens when pumping alters the equilibrium between fresh and salty zones of the aquifer.
Lack of rain has not been a direct factor in the problems on Shelter Island, where lawn watering was banned in April. But drought-related water consumption has contributed to saltwater intrusion elsewhere. It is the reason the Suffolk County Water Authority imposed a six-month moratorium in May on new hookups in the Town of Southold, said Michael Stevenson, the authority's deputy chief executive.
"The moratorium gives us a chance to develop long-range plans," he said. "We have a limited supply of good quality water on the North Fork. The aquifer there is shallow, and it sits on top of saltwater. We don't want to overpump the aquifer because of saltwater intrusion."
Stephen M. Jones, chief executive of the Suffolk County Water Authority, said a desalination plant on the North Fork would need to process about a million gallons a day of brackish water.
"We are seriously considering such a plant," he said. "But it is the most expensive alternative we are exploring. It is far removed economically from the other alternatives -- it's up in the stratosphere."
A desalination plant on Long Island would never exhaust its supply of saltwater. But Mr. Stevenson estimated that desalination would cost about $2 to $2.33 per thousand gallons delivered, compared with the current rate of $1.33 per thousand gallons. And Mr. Jones wondered, "What do we do with all of the salt?"
Cape May, N.J., has two desalination plants that are each comparable to the one under consideration for the North Fork, and officials in Cape May said they were pleased with them.
"In my mind, it's a really good idea," said Carl Behrens, the chief operator of the Cape May plants.
Each of Cape May's plants, supplied by brackish water drawn from 800-foot wells, are designed to desalinate a million gallons daily. The process removes salt and other minerals from the water through reverse osmosis, a process that forces the water through a permeable membrane.
The two plants cost $5 million -- all but $2 million came from state and federal grants -- and began operating in July 1998. And at 22 feet long, 8 feet wide and 16 feet high, they were small enough to be installed in an existing public works building.
"It's not a large facility, and there is nothing to indicate it's a desalination plant," said Luciano V. Corea, Cape May's city administrator. "You could drive right by it."
Mr. Behrens said that the price of desalination has come down considerably in recent years and that the cost should be no more than $1.60 per thousand gallons. As for the salt, it is flushed into nearby Cape Island Creek and from there into the Atlantic, Mr. Corea said. 
As he put it, "What's the problem with putting salty water into salty water?" 
He added that the water pumped from the ground is also checked quarterly for zinc, chromium, lead and other toxic chemicals.
"The tests have determined that we are not affecting the ecosystem," Mr. Corea said.
Christopher F. Smith, marine program director for the Cornell Cooperative Extension of Suffolk County, said the vast majority of desalination plants in the United States discharge the salt they remove back into surface water.
"All of them have done environmental impact statements regarding that and all indicated that it does not have a harmful impact on the environment because of the dilution ability of the ocean," he said.
Mr. Jones said the Suffolk County Water Authority would soon begin environmental reviews of the alternatives and that he hoped to select one by the end of November so that it could be included in next year's capital budget.
Mr. Stevenson stressed that the authority planned to examine all options. "If bringing icebergs down here were feasible and environmentally friendly, we'd even look at that," he said.
Mr. Jones said the authority must take into consideration a federal proposal to reduce the permissible amount of nitrates in drinking water. A desalination plant would take care of the problem; drilling new local wells might require an additional expenditure for a treatment plant. A third option, piping water to the North Fork from the Pine Barrens 10 miles away, would not require a treatment plant but would involve the construction of the pipeline.
The prolonged hot, dry weather has caused other problems around the Island. Huntington Town, which operates the Dix Hills Water District, said in August that demand from lawn irrigation systems had "reached dangerous levels."
The district has the largest per capita summer use of water in the United States, according to Robert J. Farmer, associate public health engineer for the Suffolk County Department of Health Services.
"The Dix Hills district, which services roughly 8,400 residential properties, has for the past week pumped an average of 17 million gallons per day," the town said in a statement on Aug. 15. "During the winter, the average daily use is 2.5 million gallons."
Such usage forces the water district to tap into its above-ground water tanks, which hold 1.25 million gallons and act as reserves in the event of a fire or when there is unusual demand.
"On Tuesday or Wednesday last week, water levels in the tanks went down to zero," Joseph P. D'Alessandro, the Dix Hills fire chief, said on Aug. 18.
He said that by 9 a.m., water levels in the tanks were generally back to normal but that it was the overnight hours, when many homeowners water their lawns, that he was most concerned about.
The Huntington Town Board has ordered mandatory odd-even lawn-watering restrictions in the water district from May through September. Houses with even-numbered street addresses are permitted to water on even-numbered days and vice-versa.
A Nassau County ordinance adopted in 1987 requires odd-even watering of lawns throughout the county and imposes a $50 fine for violators. It is up to each water district to monitor compliance; the Nassau County Police Department issues the summonses. A spokeswoman for the department said she did not have statistics available on the number of summonses issued.
Although the rules in Huntington Town went into effect last year, the town is enforcing them strictly this year and issued 1,000 warning notices in the last month, said Susan A. Berland, a town board member. 
"When they get the notices, people seem to wake up," she said. "If it's a question of a green lawn or being able to fight a fire, they understand the priorities."
Mr. D'Alessandro said this summer was the worst the department had faced in terms of low water pressure and water levels.
"This is the bottom," he said. "We can't go any lower, or we won't have water."
Donald McKay, a spokesman for Huntington Town, said that in the days after Huntington officials held a news conference to express their concerns, "there was a noticeable decrease in water usage." He attributed the drop to public awareness of the problem, as well as cooler temperatures and rain that finally put green into some lawns.
Sarah J. Meyland of Huntington, executive director of the Citizens Campaign for the Environment, a statewide organization, said the combination of a lack of rain and a lowering of the water table due to constant pumping is drying up lakes and streams. 
"Hempstead Lake is now Hempstead mud flats," Ms. Meyland said. "Maybe there are remnants of a lake there, but by and large it's all dried up. That's the lowest level that anyone can recall."
"All surface water bodies on Long Island are fed by groundwater, and as the water table drops, a lot of the lakes and streams dry up or the streams get shorter because there is nothing to feed them," she said. 
At a Suffolk Legislature hearing in early August to discuss the drought, Ms. Meyland argued that the supply of groundwater was not infinite. She said that despite the contention of the Suffolk County Water Authority that the aquifers hold at least 70 trillion gallons of water, enough to last hundreds of years even if it never rained again, she believes only 8 trillion could actually be extracted.
Ms. Meyland said that when you figure that Suffolk and Nassau Counties each pump 69 billion gallons a year, "this notion that you can't pump it dry, that it will last forever, is ridiculous."
Although the latest geologic studies show continued saltwater intrusion on Nassau's North Shore, Ms. Meyland said that for the second year in a row budget constraints had kept Nassau County from contracting with the United States Geological Survey to examine the impact of the drought and the level of the water table.
The National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., reported that July was the second-driest on Long Island in the center's 108 years of recordkeeping.
On Shelter Island, 25 inches of rain normally falls between October and March, but only 6 or 7 inches fell in the same period in 2001-02, said Mr. Williams, the town supervisor.
He said problems in the West Neck Water District developed at the beginning of August when the district's two older wells dried up and the third was cut back to operate at 60 percent of capacity. But on Aug. 8, the pump in that well broke, leaving the district without water.
The water district called on the Suffolk County Water Authority, which brought in four water trucks that were placed strategically throughout the district. A new water pump was installed on Aug. 9. The Suffolk County Department of Health Services monitored water pumped from that well over the weekend and gave the approval for its use on Aug. 12.
Last month, the Department of Health Services presented a groundwater study that found that the aquifer beneath Shelter Island was only 100 feet deep at its deepest point.
"Below that is saltwater, clay and then saltwater again," Mr. Williams said he was told. "Their engineers firmly believe that our aquifer is isolated and limited. They said it is fragile." 
Ron J. Paulsen, a hydrologist with the Suffolk County Office of Water Resources, said Long Island experienced its worst drought from 1965 through 1968 and that if the present drought continues for another year, it would be comparable to that period.
Mr. Stevenson of the Suffolk County Water Authority said it has mounted a $200,000 advertising campaign to encourage its 355,000 customers to use odd-even lawn watering. He pointed out that in July, the authority pumped a record 12.1 billion gallons of water, eclipsing the 11.3 billion gallons set in July 1999.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The sign on this plywood sheep is true enough, but the drought does not appear to be a direct cause of the water shortage on Shelter Island. (Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times)(pg. 6); TO HAVE AND HAVE NOT -- The Dix Hills Water District has the highest per-capita summer use of water in the country, in part because of lawn watering, above. A tanker, left, faced a ferry ride on its way to deliver water to Shelter Island. (Inset, Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times; Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (79%); WATER WELL DRILLING (78%); DROUGHT (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); WATER CONSUMPTION (73%); CITIES (72%) WATER; SHORTAGES; WELLS; DESALINATION 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY); SHELTER ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



13 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Back to School 2002: Ever More Minds to Feed 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
IF demographers and planners are on the money, Long Island is unlikely to see again an explosion in school-aged children to match the 1960's and 1970's, when enrollment rose through the schoolhouse roof and new schools sprouted like mushrooms.
 The baby boomers who filled those classroom seats are now middle-aged. The era of rapid housing development that brought tens of thousands of children into the schools is over. Population growth has been flat in Nassau and moderate in Suffolk for more than two decades. By 2000, the most recent year for which figures were available, public school enrollment was 247,850 in Suffolk and 202,882 in Nassau, far fewer than the 318,364 enrollment in Suffolk and 321,209 in Nassau in 1972, the peak enrollment year. 
 But a moderate upward trend in public school enrollment has emerged in the last five years, and with students heading back to school this week it appears to be continuing. School administrators say it reflects the Island's surging Hispanic population, a demographic echo of the baby boomer generation and, particularly in Suffolk County, the effects of housing development in the few remaining areas of Long Island not yet built out. 
In school districts and private schools on the East End, officials were also attributing a small part of the upward tick to a continuation of post-9/11 flight from New York City as families took up permanent residence in second homes.
The baby boomer echo was the faintest of the upward pressures but perhaps the most evenly distributed across the two counties. In some school districts, it was seen as adding dozens, or in larger districts, hundreds of extra students in recent years.
School officials in several Suffolk County districts said the far greater enrollment impact came from sharp increases in Hispanic students.
At the East Hampton high school, temporary classrooms have been installed to accommodate a jump in enrollment. Noel McStay, the district superintendent, said Hispanic students now accounted for nearly a quarter of the student body, up from about 7 percent when he arrived in the district nine years ago.
"We're a service-oriented community with a large number of summer residents, and with that comes the need for landscaping and maintenance," he said. Many who hold those jobs are Hispanic. Figures from the Suffolk County Planning Department show the Hispanic population in East Hampton increased from 812 in 1990 to 2,914 in 2000, a 259 percent increase.
School officials will soon ask district residents to approve a multimillion-dollar project to add 20 classrooms, a gym and a cafeteria. The school board was still working out the costs.
In the Hampton Bays school district, J. Bruce McKenna, the superintendent, said Hispanic students were a factor in a recent enrollment surge. "We've been exploding out here for the past two or three years," he said. Enrollment went from 1,370 in 1999 to an anticipated 1,720 this fall, a 26 percent increase. The district will soon ask voters to approve a $40 million to $50 million construction bond.
School officials said they neither know nor inquire whether Hispanic students are in the country legally. "That's not my job and I won't do it," Mr. McStay said. "If a child is brought into East Hampton, it's our job to educate that child."
Mr. McStay said children brought from the city after Sept. 11 were a distant second in spurring enrollment increases.
At the Hampton Day School, a private school in Bridgehampton for pre-school through eighth grade, enrollment and applications were holding steady, said Jim Ferrer, the headmaster.
Mr. Ferrer said that after Sept. 11 the school received telephone calls from anxious parents of children attending schools in New York City. He said about 12 new students enrolled, but that the families of about half of them had since moved back to the city. "We even had a couple that went back last spring," he said.
Real estate professionals in some parts of Long Island said they had seen movements of families with children into their communities after the World Trade Center attack. "That happened immediately after Sept. 11," said Judi Desiderio, vice president of Cook Pony Farm, a real estate company with offices in the Hamptons. "They wanted to be safe and they wanted their kids in schools out here."
But in Southampton, as in East Hampton and Hampton Bays, school officials said they knew of only a trickle of such students. "It was not dramatic," said Josephine DeVincenzi, an assistant to the superintendent in the Southampton school district. She said children of 8 to 10 families leaving the city enrolled. The East End's expanding Hispanic population, she said, was a greater cause of moderate enrollment increases.
Dr. DeVincenzi said her district expected to add 40 to 50 students this year. From 1998 to 2001, enrollment increased from 1,616 to 1,761. As of last week, 1,748 students were enrolled for this school year but more were expected.
In Great Neck, where some real estate agents also noted some buyers and home hunters wanting to leave the city after Sept. 11, the Great Neck public school district said enrollment was only slightly up. The district projects it will enroll 5,975 students this school year, up 43 students from last year. From June 2001 to June 2002, enrollment actually declined slightly.
Alicemarie Bresnihan, the president of the Nassau and Suffolk School Boards Association, said that while enrollment was increasing moderately in many Long Island districts, very little was due to Sept. 11. 
Mrs. Bresnihan said she believed a more common cause was "a turnover of houses as older people moving out of the area are replaced by younger people" with school-aged children.
"Even a moderate increase can be a problem," said Mrs. Bresnihan, a member of the Lynbrook school board for 27 years. "It's not like we're back in the 60's, but it's a problem in terms of needing more teachers, classroom space and services."
From the 1997-1998 school year to the 1999-2000 school year, Suffolk enrollment grew by 10,229 and Nassau enrollment rose by 7,408, state Education Department statistics show. Anecdotal evidence indicates the trend has continued unabated.
Enrollment increases have been largest in districts where housing development has been most pronounced. In the Eastport-South Manor Central High School District, a new high school will open next year to accommodate rising enrollment linked to extensive development, particularly in Eastport. Voters have approved an $88 million bond to finance construction.
Frank J. Carasiti, the superintendent, said enrollment was also growing dramatically in the South Manor and Eastport elementary school districts, which he also heads. In Eastport, he said, enrollment in grades K-6 rose 7 percent over the summer, with more students still expected.
Schools must file final enrollment figures with the state by early next month.
Residential development boosts enrollment far less in East End districts like Southampton, where most new construction is of second homes. In Riverhead, where more new development has been for primary homes and the Hispanic population is also increasing, upward pressure on enrollment is building.
In Farmingville, where Hispanic men wait by the roadside for offers of work as day laborers, the local school district said housing development, not Hispanic students, was behind a projected enrollment increase.
The district, Sachem, had only 21 Mexican students last year, said Mary Bartley, the deputy superintendent. Most of the day laborers are believed to be Mexicans who have entered the United States illegally, but left families at home.
The Sachem district is projecting enrollment at 15,331 this year, up only 1 percent from 15,136 last year. Dr. Bartley said part of the increase was due to an unexpectedly large number of new students coming from Summerfields, a new 440-home development in Holtsville.
James A. Ruck, the district superintendent, said development would continue to push enrollment higher, noting that "we have a considerable amount of open space in our community." The district, which has one of the highest enrollments in the state, includes all or parts of Holbrook, Holtsville, Farmingville, Lake Ronkonkoma, Ronkonkoma, Nesconset, Bohemia, Selden, Centereach and Lake Grove.
The district was uncertain if Hispanic men working in the area would ever bring families and enroll children in the school system. "It's hard to know," said Dr. Bartley. "I would think it's certainly a possibility."
Thomas Conoscenti, a Long Island economist in Nesconset, said it was more a probability. "If they are making money they will eventually move their families here," he said.
Nadia Marin-Molina, executive director of the Workplace Project in Hempstead, said families had already begun arriving. "In Farmingville that's already starting to happen, and it's happening in other places," she said. "As they see there is a labor market here for them, workers are able to stay and bring their families."
Ms. Marin-Molina said she was surprised the Sachem school district was not experiencing a sharper increase in Hispanic students.
She said her group had seen no evidence that Hispanic laborers were bringing their families to Long Island because post-Sept. 11 border restrictions made seasonal visits home too difficult. She said the pattern of home visits had remained the same among the Farmingville workers, with some men going regularly and others not at all.
The Rev. William Brisotti, pastor of Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal in Wyandanch, said he knew of Hispanic immigrants who met and married in that community and who were now having children. He said his church recently added a second Spanish mass to accommodate a soaring Hispanic population. "We have droves of kids," he said. "There are also entire families coming here," he said.
Edda Nieves of the Gerald J. Ryan Outreach Center in Wyandanch, said undocumented Hispanics were now more apt to enroll their children in schools. "They are not as afraid as they used to be," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of three modular classrooms installed at East Hampton High School, above. Nathalie Galindo, a senior, left, putting the finishing touches on a door, part of a hallway face-lift at Greenport High School. (Photographs by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 6); BATTLE OF THE BULGE -- East Hampton High School is putting up modular classrooms to meet demand. (Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); COUNTIES (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); TRENDS (71%); APPROVALS (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ENROLLMENT; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



14 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS; 
A Flashy Four-Carom Shot For James and McGreevey

BYLINE:  By Ronald Smothers; Ronald Smothers reports from Newark for The New York Times.

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
On any given day, any one of these events should have been nothing less than a seismic occurrence in Newark and Trenton, a rapid-fire resolution of issues more reminiscent of the settling of scores in the last scene of "The Godfather":
 * Long-suffering supporters of the Newark arena find a new and surer way of financing their prized project, allowing Governor McGreevey to sidestep another skirmish with the Legislature. 
 * The city, faced with a name change for its international airport -- the busiest in the New York area -- gets a reprieve.
* Officials come up with millions of dollars to close a gaping hole in the city's 2002 budget and better insure that future budgets will be balanced. 
* The leasing of the airport to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is extended for 63 years.
Yet the fact that all of the above occurences took place on a single day and were linked to a single transaction -- the airport lease -- seemed to so overload the political circuits that trees could not be distinguished from forests.
It is not an overstatement to say that this is just what happened last week with news of a settlement between Newark and the Port Authority over the airport.
Blame it on the dog days of summer -- when minds wander and the attention is more focused on sun and sand and less on budgets and capital programs. And perhaps Governor McGreevey and Mayor Sharpe James of Newark should be credited for having deftly executed political misdirection plays of the kind that -- had they taken place on the football field and not in a political arena -- would have left everyone wondering who had the ball.
By settling the dispute between Newark and the Port Authority over the airport lease, Newark stands to get a $265 million windfall. About $100 million will go toward plugging a $65 million hole in the city's budget this year, with the remaining amount to help ease the city's long-delayed property tax revaluation.
The remaining $165 million was set aside for economic development purposes, a euphemism that insiders and outsiders alike recognized as money to help pay for the proposed $355 million arena.
The bailout could not have come a minute too soon. The city's budget problems were so acute that last week Moody's Investor Service lowered the city's bond rating, saying that there was a negative outlook for fiscal 2002 and 2003. Mayor James had been threatening to lay off 300 to 400 police officers and firefighters to balance the budget without raising taxes. In the mayor's words -- as he remained closeted with City Council members in a day-long session on the airport lease -- they were facing a fiscal disaster.
But the settlement averted fiscal meltdown and assured the city of at least $65 million a year over the next 60 years, with the possibility that the figure could increase with a rise in airport traffic. Rent for the airport in the previous five years averaged $44 million annually.
As the negotiations with the Port Authority were proceeding, Governor McGreevey revealed that he and Gov. George Pataki of New York -- who together select the people to run the bistate agency -- were thinking about changing the name of Newark's airport to Liberty International in memory of the victims of the attacks on the World Trade Center.
This is where it gets a little tricky. The spokeswoman for Mayor James and the point person on the city's response, Pamela Goldstein, waxed livid, denouncing the proposed change as diminishing the city's profile and stepping on its primacy as owner of the airport.
It seemed as if the mayor was so angry that he would throw his body in front of a 737 until the two governors relented.
Yet the mayor -- famous for his strident boosterism of Newark -- was curiously silent. He hinted softly at some willingness to compromise, but did little else, focused as he was on the negotiations with the Port Authority that were -- at that point -- being joined by Mr. McGreevey.
Suddenly, there were a lot more chips on the table.
When the game was over, there -- unheralded in the 10th paragraph of an 11-paragraph document -- the parties had agreed to change the name of the airport to Newark Liberty International.
Mayor James's hat trick, with an assist from the governor, was completed with the extra $165 million for the arena. For his part, Mr. McGreevey had managed to keep his promise to bring the arena to Newark without having to deal with the balky Legislature and with its opponents in Bergen County, despite his vow to stick with them until a solution was found for the Meadowlands.
"If it was the Governor's goal to remove the arena issue from the Legislature, then this was a masterful move on his part," said one admiring Democrat.
Or as one Republican lawmaker -- a bit chagrined by what appeared to be a seamless coup by the Democratic Governor -- put it, "It all looks pretty real from what I have heard."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Smothers 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (88%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); BONDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); AIRLINES (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (63%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (63%); PROPERTY TAX (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NEWARK LIBERTY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ;PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); JAMES, SHARPE (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



15 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Nan Lee, Scott Ito

 BODY:
Yong Nan Lee, the daughter of Lucia Kim of Fort Lee, N.J., was married yesterday to Scott Toshio Ito, the son of Yoshiko J. Ito of Altadena, Calif. The Rev. 
In-wham Rheem, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony at Woo Lae Oak, a restaurant in New York.
 The bride, who is 31 and is known as Nan, is keeping her name. She is the director of fund-raising at the Lawyers Alliance for New York, a nonprofit organization that provides nonlitigation legal services for nonprofit organizations in New York. She graduated from Drew University. Her mother, who is retired, owned Ivy Hill Cleaners, a dry cleaner in Cheltenham, Pa. 
 The bridegroom, 36, is the director of external affairs at Asian Americans for Equality, a nonprofit organization in New York that fosters community and economic development in Chinatown and the Lower East Side. He graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles. His mother is a real estate broker in Pasadena, Calif.
The couple met in the summer of 2000 at a fund-raising event for the Korean American Family Services Center in New York. The bride was the organization's director of fund-raising; the bridegroom was volunteering on the dinner committee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); FAMILY (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (75%); RESTAURANTS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (52%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: LEE, YONG NAN; ITO, SCOTT TOSHIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



16 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
Cities Find Sisters Abroad

BYLINE:  By SUSAN HODARA 

 BODY:
SHORTLY after Sept. 11, Peter Korn, former city manager of New Rochelle, received a telephone call from Colette Chigneau, deputy mayor of La Rochelle, a port city on the Atlantic coast of France. She expressed concern for what had happened in New York, and inquired about whether anyone from New Rochelle had been lost. Then she invited any children who might need to get away after the tragedy to visit La Rochelle and stay with families there. 
 It was a call that meant a lot to Mr. Korn, and one that reflected the kind of mutually supportive relationship that has been continuing for decades between the two cities bonded as sister cities, and at one time registered with the Washington-based Sister Cities International, but now maintaining the connection on their own. 
 Sister Cities International is the national membership association for sister city, county and state programs in the United States. It was initially an outgrowth of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's People-to-People citizen diplomacy initiative, proposed in 1956 in hopes of diminishing the possibility of future world conflicts. In 1967, Sister Cities International became an independent nonprofit organization, with the goal of fostering global cooperation through international community partnerships. 
Sister Cities International plays a networking role in the creation and support of such relationships, working with citizens, municipal officials and business leaders. Once cities are paired, they can register with Sister Cities for an annual fee, entering into a formal pact signed by each mayor. 
Annual membership fees vary depending on population. They range from $130 for communities with fewer than 5,000 people to $1,100 for those with 5,000 to 500,000 people to $1,235 for those with 500,000 to one million people to $1,440 for those with more than a million people.
There are currently 2,100 communities in 121 countries involved in Sister Cities International partnerships.
"Basically, they're agreeing to further the cause of international friendship," said Cynthia Maka, Sister Cities's regional director for Asia. Sister cities have engaged in exchanges involving health care, environment, arts, education, economic development, trade, public safety and youth issues. In Westchester, New Rochelle, Mount Vernon and Yonkers are involved in such relationships. Yonkers's sister city is Ternopil in western Ukraine. Mount Vernon has two sister cities, Yangquan and Shijingshan District, in China. "The result is that people are interacting with people." Ms. Maka said. 
The people of New Rochelle have been interacting with the people of La Rochelle since the late 17th century, when the French Huguenots fled La Rochelle to escape religious persecution and founded New Rochelle in 1688. A relationship between the cities was formalized after World War II through Sister Cities International, but, Mr. Korn said, he found it went back further when he discovered a statue in La Rochelle on a visit there with a group of New Rochelle residents in 2000. 
"In the courtyard of City Hall in La Rochelle is a large statue of a 17th-century La Rochelle mayor," he said. "When we wandered behind it, we found an inscription saying it was a gift from the people of New Rochelle to the citizens of La Rochelle, given in grateful friendship. It was dated 1909."
The present-day friendship between the cities is overseen by Thomas C. Idoni, the mayor of New Rochelle since 1992. Its mission is "to maintain a cultural, social and business partnership so we can learn from each other and help each other's residents," he said. 
"In 1998 to commemorate the tricentennial of the founding of New Rochelle," Mayor Idoni said, "we invited the mayor of La Rochelle and a group of French chefs to New Rochelle for a series of celebrations." 
Several cultural exchanges have taken place, and in 2000, a delegation of 16 New Rochelle residents, led by a councilwoman, Christina Selen, traveled to La Rochelle in an effort to foster economic development. 
"We're trying to establish business relationships between the two cities," Mayor Idoni said. "We're discussing import-export relations with French companies there, particularly in the boating and wine industries." 
La Rochelle businesses are being encouraged to open offices in New Rochelle. "It's a lot less expensive than Manhattan,"Mr. Idoni said, "and it would spur our tourism industry and the growth of our downtown." An effort to export local businesses to France "is still in the incubation phase," he said. 
Besides the economic aspects, personal relationships have emerged. 
"We stay in their homes when we visit," Mayor Idoni said. "We learn their culture, and they learn ours." 
Yonkers residents have also made friends abroad, through its sister city relationship with Ternopil, an area from which many of Yonkers's Ukrainians emigrated. While currently inactive, that relationship began in 1991, when the Yonkers chapter of the international Ukrainian American Youth Association instituted a medical relief fund to deliver much-needed supplies to hospitals in Ukraine. One of the fund's coordinators was the president of the chapter, Dr. Orest Kozicky, a gastroenterologist who practices and lives with his family in Yonkers. 
"During one of our relief missions to Ukraine in 1992, I had the opportunity to meet with the mayor and city council of Ternopil," Dr. Kozicky said. "They expressed an interest in establishing a relationship with Ukrainians in America for the purpose of gaining exposure to western ideas and potential technical and humanitarian assistance." 
The notion of such a connection was embraced by Ukrainian residents in Yonkers and other parts of Westchester. Once the mayor and city council of Yonkers got on board, the relationship was registered with Sister Cities International. 
"Our initial hopes were to offer exchange programs for students, and economic and technical assistance," Dr. Kozicky said. With this in mind, members of the Ternopil City Council traveled to Yonkers in 1994, where, he said, "they were hosted at the Lenoir Mansion, given a tour of the city, and treated to a banquet and traditional Ukrainian dance performances at the Youth Center." 
Meanwhile, relief efforts were continuing, and city of Yonkers won the best humanitarian project award in 1994 at the annual Sister Cities International convention. 
A Ternopil official visited Yonkers in 1997 and met with members of Yonkers commerce commission. The next year, Peter Duda, a Yonkers resident with Ukrainian roots, visited Ternopil and toured several factories. 
"He has since tried to establish an outlet for electric lamps made in Ternopil, but this project has not come to fruition," Dr. Kozicky said. Other projects have met similar fates. "The main reason for the shortcomings of our sister city relationship is the lack of a permanent staff to coordinate the programs," Dr. Kozicky said. "There are many obstacles to overcome in bridging the differences between our economic and technological systems. Without a well-funded staff, many of the best intentions just don't pan out." Medical supplies, he said, continue to be gathered and sent to Ternopil, with the next shipment scheduled for the end of the year. 
The sister city program seems to be working out well in Mount Vernon, which is involved with two different cities in China: Yangquan, an industrial city in north central China, and Shijingshan District, a suburb of Beijing. The first relationship, with Yangquan, dates back to 1994, when Ronald Blackwood, who was mayor then, was approached by a group of Chinese businesspeople who lived and worked in Mount Vernon to discuss opportunities for business development with China. An official invitation from and a trip to Yangquan followed, during which the relationship was formalized.
A second trip to China was made in 1997 by a Mount Vernon group that included current Mayor Ernest D. Davis; Gerrie Post, Mount Vernon's commissioner of planning and community development; and representatives from the technology and business sectors. "We toured factories and schools," Ms. Post said, "and worked on-site to negotiate our second partnership."
She said that Mount Vernon and Shijingshan District are both situated just outside a larger metropolis. 
Air pollution is now a critical concern in China, she said. "We've had visitors from China looking at our automobile inspection and pollution-monitoring systems," she said. "They're talking to a company in Mount Vernon that manufactures these devices about importing them for use in China."
As a result of the strength of Mount Vernon's relationships in China, Mayor Davis said the city was considering developing similar relationships with cities in Italy and Africa. "As the world gets smaller and opportunities get bigger," he said, "Mount Vernon will be poised internationally not to have to go it alone."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the harbor of La Rochelle, France, the sister city of New Rochelle. New Rochelle's founders fled religious persecution in France. (La Rochelle Tourism Office)(pg. 11); A monument in New Rochelle commemorates the city's French founders. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (67%); RELIGION (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: SISTER CITIES INTERNATIONAL (94%) SISTER CITIES INTERNATIONAL 

PERSON: EISENHOWER, DWIGHT DAVID (1890-1969); HODARA, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); SHANXI, CHINA (57%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (90%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%) NEW ROCHELLE (NY); LA ROCHELLE (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



17 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: DOWN THE SHORE; 
Off Peak

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY 

 BODY:
MARY JONAS has been taking the bus here about once a week for more than 20 years -- since she was 66.
 "There was Playboy and Atlantis and, really, a lot of versions of Mr. Trump," said Ms. Jonas, who will be celebrating her 90th birthday in a few weeks -- "just about the time they have a new Miss America, though I don't think it will be me." 
 Ms. Jonas comes here from her home in Montclair, usually on the Red and Tan line, but sometimes on special casino buses that she finds out about through newspaper advertisements or leaflets at her recreation center. "There is always some kind of incentive a free lunch, a few bucks back," she said. "But I have noticed there are fewer buses these days."
Age has not dulled her perceptions. The latest statistics from the South Jersey Transportation Authority show that bus traffic to the casino-hotels here has been dwindling in recent years. According to figures made public recently by the authority, 8 million casino patrons will get here by bus this year as against 10 million in 1998.
For now, no one seems to know why fewer people have been taking the bus for several years. Casinos -- which have seen an increase in business this year -- insist they have not been discouraging bus-riding patrons. Most evidence suggests that after the events of last Sept. 11 -- followed by a tightening of the economy -- people began taking less expensive vacations closer to home. And while there have been any number of bus crashes along the Garden State Parkway involving casino patrons -- including one on Christmas Eve in 1998 in which eight people were killed -- there is no evidence linking the two phenomena.
"There has definitely been a steady decline," said Gary Israel, a spokesman for the transportation authority and former marketing executive for several casinos here. "It is difficult to pinpoint one reason, but casino attendance is up otherwise. So you have to figure, to some extent that the casinos have been more successful at attracting drive-in business which, in the end, is more lucrative than bus traffic."
Bus traffic to the casinos tends to be clustered around the hotels near the Atlantic City Expressway. In the first half of this year, Bally's accounted for 12.4 percent of the bus traffic; the Hilton, 10.5 percent; Trump Taj Mahal, 10.4 percent, and Trump Plaza, 10.1 percent.
By comparison, relatively few buses head for the Marina section, whose casinos tend to attract a younger crowd that arrives by car. The Trump Marina draws just 3.1 percent of the bus traffic to the casinos, while Harrah's accounts for only 0.5 percent.
"Let's face it," said Daniel Heneghan, director of communications for the Casino Control Commission, "if the casinos could bring everyone in by car, they would pretty much stop using buses. The drive-ins are the higher-profile people. Even if they don't bet that highly, they still spend more money on food or souvenirs."
Mr. Heneghan pointed out that in 1988, 15 million people came to Atlantic City by bus -- nearly twice as many as this year.
"Still, 8 million is a lot of people," he said. "You have 900 buses coming in a day in a city of 42,000 residents. Where else in the country do you have something like that?"
For their part, the casinos say that they are not intentionally cutting back on bus patrons, and that they are offering the same incentives they have for years. 
"While bus traffic is down, we still encourage it," said Brian Cahill of Park Place Entertainment, which owns Bally's, the Hilton and Caesar's. "The point is to get people to come."
Bobby Hull, the director of operations of Coach USA, which runs several bus lines, including Red and Tan, that originate in New York, New Jersey, Delaware and Pennsylvania, said he had noticed a drop-off in the last year, but he attributed it primarily to the struggling economy.
"We saw it a few months before 9/11," said Mr. Hull. "The stock market went down and people stopped coming by bus. Even though bus patrons may not be big stock owners, they can be on fixed incomes and be worried about the economy."
As for his company, Mr. Hull said his figures for this year showed an 8 percent decrease from 2001 in the number of bus passengers arriving from northern New Jersey, with traffic from Philadelphia off about 10 percent and as much as 15 percent from New York City.
"After 9/11, we had to reroute a lot of buses, particularly in lower Manhattan," he said. "That ridership has never come back."
Contrary to those who think that the casinos tend to hold their noses as they welcome bus passengers, Mr. Hull said he saw a trend in trying to win them back.
"Incentives are higher than I've seen in five or six years," he said. "Right now, some casinos are giving them $15 to $18 back if they ride down from New York, which is about a $25 trip. In Philly, they may get $10 or $12 back after only paying $12."
While Mr. Hull said his company had not cut back on the number of buses operating on fixed schedules, total bus counts -- which include charters and special routes -- have been off considerably for the last couple of years.
According to transportation authority figures, 1,097 buses arrived at the casinos each day in 1999, as against only 897 a day this year. On the other hand, the number of passengers on each bus has held steady, dropping only from 25 in 1999 to 24 today.
Still, as Mr. Heneghan said, "900 buses a day in what is still only a small city is a pretty decent influx of tourists daily, all spending real money."
For people like Ms. Jonas, coming here by bus is still a good deal. "So as long as I can find a bus, Ill be doing my regular thing down here," she said. "And it seems I can always find one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The South Jersey Transportation Authority says 8 million casino patrons will arrive in Atlantic City by bus this year as against 10 million in 1998. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); GAMING (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVES (61%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (50%) GAMBLING; CASINOS; BUSES 

ORGANIZATION: CASINO CONTROL COMMISSION (NJ) 

PERSON: HENEGAN, DANIEL; STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



18 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
Low-Paid Workers Bear a Hidden Burden

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
DOES it pay to work?
 The question may seem idle; for most of us, the alternative is living in a cardboard box and dining from a Dumpster. But with another Labor Day upon us and with chief executives still accused of looting companies (some legally, some not), it seems legitimate to ask: What's in work for the rest of us, especially after taxes? 
 For working stiffs, the answer is not much, at least according to a new study by three economists: Jagadeesh Gokhale of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, Laurence J. Kotlikoff of Boston University and Alexi Sluchynsky, who studied at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and now advises the government of Kosovo. 
In the study, they undertook the complex task of accounting for the effects of income and payroll taxes, Medicaid and other benefits on individuals' earnings. They made various calculations by using ESPlanner, financial planning software that Mr. Gokhale and Mr. Kotlikoff helped to develop that tries to capture most aspects of people's financial lives, including benefits like the home mortgage deduction. (You can try the software -- or read the professors' paper -- at www.esplanner.com).
Of course, it doesn't take an economist or a computer program to know that 8 or 10 bucks an hour buys little today. What's interesting is the tax and benefit effects that the economists found -- in other words, how the system treats low-wage workers. 
The economists calculate, for instance, that anyone making 1.5 times the minimum wage of $5.15 an hour -- that's less than $8 an hour -- faces an overall marginal tax rate of 51 percent, almost the same as would apply if wages were more than $200 an hour. (Your marginal rate is the rate you pay on each additional dollar of income you earn.) Try climbing out of poverty with that kind of burden on your back.
At those wages, having a spouse working full time won't do much good either. For people making up to double the minimum wage -- $10.30 an hour -- part-time work can pay, but the higher taxes and lower government benefits resulting from full-time work would negate what you earn -- to say nothing of commuting, dry cleaning or other costs of holding a job.
"The U.S. fiscal system is very strongly encouraging one spouse in low-wage married households to stay out of the labor force," the economists write, acknowledging that this spouse is usually a woman. The disincentive for women to work is explored at length by Edward J. McCaffery, a law professor at the University of Southern California, in "Taxing Women" (University of Chicago, 1997).
Over all, the three economists found that the tax and benefits system is broadly progressive, since minimum wage workers receive more in benefits than they pay in taxes, while "households with million-dollar salaries pay 54 cents in taxes net of benefits per dollar earned." Unfortunately, marginal rates jump quickly once you start earning $7 or $8 an hour and remain essentially the same all the way up the earnings scale. As Professor Kotlikoff put it, "What we have at the margins is a flat tax."
The marginal rates afflicting the poor are high in part because benefits like Medicaid are lost as incomes rise; the professors treat these benefits as a tax in reverse. But perhaps even more surprising are the high marginal rates, net of benefits, that affect even the most prosperous in the economists' study. Yes, the affluent are thriving, but they still pay lots of taxes.
Yet it's hard to avoid the impression from this study that the tax system is not progressive enough. Even looking at average tax rates -- the total taxes you pay divided by your total income -- the poor pay lower rates than the rich, but only until earnings reach around $30 an hour, or about $60,000 a year. These earners pay average tax rates of 50 percent, where they remain right on up the pay scale. 
Aside from questions of fairness, the implications are sobering for the workers and retirees of tomorrow, who will have to pay for Social Security 20 or 30 years from now. It looks as if you can expect one of four things for your lifetime of labor: higher taxes on your retirement savings; higher taxes on your earnings, if you have any; lower retirement benefits; or delayed retirement. In the worst case, it might be all of the above.
So does it pay to work? Sure it does. Just not as much as you thought.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The On the Contrary column on Sept. 1, about an economists' study of worker taxation, misstated the circumstances in the example of low-wage earners who pay high effective tax rates. These workers had been unemployed but found full-time work and have therefore lost Medicaid and other benefits; they had not already been employed full time.
The column also misstated the effective tax rate, reflecting the loss of benefits, for such workers who earn just less than $8 an hour. It is 45 percent, according to a revision of the study, not 51 percent.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rupert Howard) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%); WOMEN (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); EXECUTIVES (57%) TAXATION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

PERSON: AKST, DANIEL; GOKHALE, JAGADEESH; KOTLIKOFF, LAURENCE J (PROF); SLUCHYNSKY, ALEXI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



19 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK WATERWAYS; 
A River-Borne Clinic for the Needy Finds Itself in Search of an Anchor

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
A seaworthy hospital has it charms and drawbacks. Sick children don't mind seeing the doctor, as if the salty air soothes a needle's prick. But the hospital can also lose its berth and drift away. 
 That is the problem facing the Floating Hospital, the free clinic-at-sea that has served the city's needy and homeless for 136 years. Last Sept. 15, the hospital was forced by the city to leave Pier 11 near Wall Street to accommodate ferry passengers displaced from the World Trade Center. 
 The hospital, which is a barge called the Lila Acheson Wallace, was pulled by a tugboat north to Pier 17 and was deposited behind the South Street Seaport. Although hospital officials are grateful for the stopgap home, extended to them at no cost, the move has taken a toll. "The area has no wiring," said Ken Berger, the hospital's president and chief executive officer. "We've been without permanent electricity, and have to rely on generators."
There is also no telephone hookup, so the only outside link is by cellphone. But more than being expensive, cellphones are unreliable because of interference from the ship's steel hull. "We don't have fax, we don't have e-mail," Mr. Berger added. 
To get work done, staffers must trek to a land-based office, about 20 minutes away at 120 Wall Street, to pick up lab reports and medical charts while patients wait. And these days, there are many fewer patients. Since last Sept. 11, the ship served only 2,500 people, compared with 5,000 in an average year.
But now the hospital may be completely stranded. Its officials have been told by the city that they cannot return to Pier 11 because of increased ferry usage, and may be asked to leave Pier 17. Despite the hospital's efforts, a new berth has not been found.
"It's a unique situation," said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation. "We are working with them to try to find a more permanent home, but there are not many spaces available."
When the nonprofit hospital was founded in 1866, the city had no shortage of waterfront property. But today, as residents rediscover the coastline, many piers are being turned into parkland or have been demolished. "We were offered some piers in Brooklyn, but they are impossible to get to," said Ellie Tinto-Poitier, the hospital's chief operating officer. "I can't imagine that they would cut us loose and set us adrift on the East River. We would be doctors without a dock." DENNY LEE

GRAPHIC: Photo: The hospital's berth at Pier 17 behind South Street Seaport has no permanent electricity and no telephone hookup. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FERRIES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS 

ORGANIZATION: FLOATING HOSPITAL (84%) FLOATING HOSPITAL (NYC) 

PERSON: BERGER, KEN; LEE, DENNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



20 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS; 
A Marketing Cry: Don't Fence Them In

BYLINE:  By ALEX MARKELS 

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to the family business, Jack Osborne and his daughter, Cyd Szymanski, are putting the chicken before the egg. 
 Deploring what Ms. Szymanski calls "concentration camp" growing conditions on factory egg farms, she, her father and her brother are marketing eggs gathered from uncaged hens. As it happens, that has plunged her into a rivalry with her uncle, Hollis Osborne; he heads Moark L.L.C., one of the nation's largest egg producers, now owned in part by Land O'Lakes. 
 With the rest of the industry hurt by overproduction, the family's egg distributor, Colorado Natural Eggs, is profiting by focusing less on economies of scale and by giving chickens room to roam. 
Outside Longmont, 35 miles north of here, Jack Osborne, 69, stood in his kitchen -- lined with wallpaper and knickknacks depicting his favorite fowl -- raised his hands and cut a 6-by-8-inch cube into the air. "It's inhumane to put a chicken in a cage this small," he said with a grimace. "You can't even lift your wings."
Raised on a Missouri chicken farm, Mr. Osborne said he became frustrated as the business that he and his brother, Hollis, started in the 1950's grew into a huge operation that stuffed more and more chickens into cramped cages. He said he was convinced that a more humane approach could still make a profit, and in the late 1970's was among the first to advocate larger cages. Then he came up with a different idea: cage-free hens.
"Hollis thought I was plumb nuts," Mr. Osborne recalled. "He said, 'Aw, there's no market for that.' "
So he quit and headed for Colorado, where he founded his cage-free operation in 1991, recruiting his daughter to sell the eggs to natural-food stores. 
The business, based here, was slow to take off. But he and Ms. Szymanski, 45, an animal-welfare advocate with a knack for marketing, soon made inroads with supermarket chains like Albertsons and Kroger, which placed their Nest Fresh brand next to eggs supplied by Moark, which says it has $400 million in annual revenue.
Until recently, though, the two businesses were not really rivals. "Cage free" eggs, at around $2.79 a dozen, typically cost more than twice as much as other eggs; in the past, they were bought mostly by dedicated natural-foods shoppers. But after a potent media campaign by animal-rights groups about the growing conditions of farm animals, some buying habits started to change.
"Americans are becoming more focused on issues that affect food quality, and the treatment of farm animals is a big part of that," said John Zogby, president of Zogby International, a pollster in Utica, N.Y. In a May survey, it found that nearly 65 percent of Americans support federal laws to protect farm animals from inhumane procedures.
Since People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals raised consumer consciousness in the late 90's with its campaigns to push McDonald's, Safeway and other chains to buy products according to its animal-welfare guidelines, Colorado Natural said its sales have grown more than 20 percent annually, to about $4 million last year.
DRIVING door to door in an Audi station wagon with a license plate reading "EGGLADY," Ms. Szymanski now markets eggs to a half-dozen supermarket chains in the Rocky Mountain states. Although phobic about the birds after a childhood surrounded by their incessant pecking (now, she likes to be around the eggs, but not the chickens), she champions their welfare. "They're intelligent, sentient, social animals," she said, standing in front of her company's processing factory here, under a sign reading "Eggs With a Conscience."
"Part of my mission is to publicize the industry's track record of cruelty and the pain caged operations inflict on these animals."
For some time, traditional producers have been beset by health concerns over cholesterol in eggs and forsaken by busy consumers who have turned to quicker breakfast foods. The industry has not had a cohesive marketing effort since the "incredible edible egg" campaign began more than two decades ago. 
Hard times have forced thousands of small farmers out of the business, pushing the remainder to build ever-bigger farms, sometimes housing millions of chickens each. 
Yet the specialty category -- including cage-free and organic eggs, as well as eggs fortified with supplements like omega-3 fatty acids, which have various health benefits -- has grown fivefold since 1997. While that is still only about 5 percent of the market, "cage-free is the fastest-growing segment, and it's got the highest margins," said Donald D. Bell, an industry economist at the University of California at Riverside.
That is mostly because of a three-year glut of caged hens, pushing farm prices below producers' break-even point. Although cage-free eggs are more expensive to hatch, their high profit margins -- from 15 to 25 cents a dozen -- more than make up the difference. "If there's any money to be made in the egg business these days, it's in these specialty eggs," Mr. Bell said.
That fact has not been lost on big producers like Moark, which has responded by introducing cage-free and other specialty varieties. Since teaming up with Land O'Lakes, the giant dairy co-op, in 1999, it has introduced All Natural Farm Fresh eggs under the Land O'Lakes label. The eggs are from caged hens fed with what the company calls a "whole-grain diet" free of antibiotics. "It's becoming a big seller, especially in the Northeast," said Paul Osborne, Hollis's son, who is Moark's vice president for marketing and a spokesman for the company.
The All Natural brand has also made inroads in Colorado, where Ms. Szymanski said some grocers pulled her most profitable eggs, the extra-large and jumbo cage-free varieties, off of shelves last year to make room for it. "My cousin promised me he wouldn't compete with us because we're family," Ms. Szymanski said recently. "But he knocked out my two highest-margin items." 
Even worse, Ms. Szymanski contends that Land O'Lakes priced its eggs just below her Nest Fresh brand and used similar wording on the packaging. 
"Land O'Lakes has got this great name and reputation, but that egg isn't any more 'natural' than a regular egg," she said.
Industry experts say Land O'Lakes All Natural eggs are little different from standard eggs. "They use the same corn, soybeans and vitamin feed mix," said Dean Hughson, an egg industry consultant. "They're basically selling a regular egg with a fancy carton."
Paul Osborne disputes that. "We feed the hens a different way and put only younger hens on the feed," he said. "So the best-quality egg goes into that carton."
He says the eggs, as he promised, do not compete directly with Colorado Natural's. Yet he said the growing popularity of cage-free eggs was making it increasingly difficult to maintain that promise. "I don't sell cage-free eggs in Denver, but I am selling them in other areas," he said. "As demand grows, we'll produce more, although I personally think it will remain a niche market."
Jack Osborne says that is just the sort of talk he used to hear from Paul's father, Hollis. Jack points to Europe, where animal-rights groups have persuaded legislators to pass some laws banning caged chickens. "The same thing will happen here," he said. "It may take a little longer. But American consumers aren't so different from the folks over in Europe. They prefer to buy farm eggs, not 'harm' eggs."
OPENING the door to the chicken house at his ranch near Longmont, he proudly points to a flock of 14,000 egg-layers milling about the barn. "See? They got sunlight and natural air, and they've still got their beaks," he said, adding that many farmers cut off the beaks to keep chickens from pecking one another. "Have you ever seen a chicken with its beak cut off? It's a darn awful sight."
Worried that consumer sentiment could force mandatory changes in the United States, the United Egg Producers, a trade group, is promoting adherence to new voluntary standards that, among other things, would increase cage space.
"We're committed to giving our hens more space," Paul Osborne said. He added that all of Moark's 14 million hens would be covered under the guidelines.
Jack Osborne recalls similar promises producers made to the Humane Society of the United States in the early 1980's. "Then egg prices went back up and everyone forgot about it," he said. "Hopefully, this time, consumers will know a fox when they see one."
For Colorado Natural, there is reason for optimism. Last month, King Soopers supermarkets replaced Land O'Lakes All Natural eggs with Colorado Natural's newest cage-free variety, featuring an omega-3 supplement. Asked the reason for the change, a grocery clerk said demand for the Land O'Lakes eggs "wasn't so hot."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eggs produced by uncaged hens, left, have become a family business for Jack Osborne, top, and his daughter, Cyd Szymanski, middle photograph, at their processing plant in Denver with her daughter, AnnaBelle, 2. Above, quality control specialists for Colorado Natural Eggs, which distributes the family's eggs, conduct inspections at the plant. (Photographs by Barry Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); POULTRY (90%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); ANIMALS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (86%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (78%); TABLE EGGS (78%); CHICKEN FARMING (78%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); POULTRY WHOLESALERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (67%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (67%); ANIMAL WELFARE (67%) EGGS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO NATURAL EGGS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: MARKELS, ALEX; OSBORNE, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (50%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) DENVER (COLO)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



21 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Adrian Ready, Michael Pastore

 BODY:
Adrian Cecilia Ready and Michael James Pastore were married yesterday. The Rev. Francis F. Burch, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Kevin's Church in Springfield, Pa.
 The bride, 31, will be known as Adrian Ready Pastore professionally. She is the director of corporate relations and sponsorships at Carnegie Hall in Manhattan. She graduated from Villanova University and received a master's degree in arts administration from Columbia. She is the daughter of Cecilia DiAngelo Ready of Springfield and John W. Ready of Philadelphia. Her father is a visiting lecturer on economics at the Delaware County campus of Pennsylvania State University at Media and teaches economics at Bucks County Community College in Perkasie, Pa. Her mother is an adjunct professor of English at Villanova, at St. Joseph's University and at Widener University. 
 Mr. Pastore, also 31, is a senior consultant in the Stamford, Conn., office of the Alexander Group, which is a sales and marketing consultancy. He graduated from Fairfield University and received an M.B.A. from Georgetown. He is a son of Mary T. and Peter F. Pastore of North Massapequa, N.Y. His mother is the administrative assistant to the president of American Para Professional Systems, a provider of medical examiner services in Jericho, N.Y. His father retired from the New York Fire Department as an engine driver in St. Albans, Queens; he then managed the high school bookstore at St. Francis Preparatory School in Fresh Meadows, Queens.
The couple met in February 1998, when Mr. Pastore helped in a fund-raising event that Ms. Ready organized for Georgetown's business school. He asked if he could see her again. But Ms. Ready was dating another M.B.A. student, and she told him she was reluctant to go out with two men from the same school. Mr. Pastore, however, saw no obstacle. He announced that she would not be dating both of them for long.
"He's a great guy, but there's no possible way the same person would like both of us," he remembers saying about his rival. "If 50 girls went out with us once, a lot of them would go for him, a lot of them would go for me and a lot would chose neither of us. But there's no way you could be torn."
Ms. Ready was charmed. She gave him her telephone number. Mr. Pastore called her a few days later. She was sick in bed with a flu, and he saw an opportunity.
"I decided to go bring her chicken soup," he said. "I'm interested, what am I going to do?"
He showed up at her door with a carton of soup from a delicatessen. Again, Ms. Ready was charmed, not only by the gift of the chicken soup but because he stayed with her for a couple of hours, watching the Olympics and ignoring her disarray.
"My hair was in a ponytail, I hadn't showered for days and I could barely lift my head up," she said. "Talk about points! My goodness, he started off with a load of them at the beginning of the relationship."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); INFLUENZA (60%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (83%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); ST JOSEPH'S UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: READY, ADRIAN CECILIA; PASTORE, MICHAEL JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



22 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
In Mining, Some Glints, But Little That Glistens

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
IT is not a growth industry, but the fortunes of the mining and metals sector offer a window on the health of the global economy.
 For the short term, at least, the outlook does not seem promising. 
 Prices for commodities like copper and aluminum are soft, and inventories are high. This has not been lost on Wall Street. With the exception of gold stocks, the sector has been in tough times. 
Peter D. Ward, a metals and mining analyst at Lehman Brothers, spoke last week about the industry. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. Why did you issue a gloomy assessment on Alcoa last week?

A. I am not seeing any real signs of huge improvements in the domestic economy through the end of this year, and Alcoa is very much a U.S. company: about two-thirds of their revenues are from here.
When you look at some of their key end markets -- housing, autos and aerospace, which together represent about 45 percent of the company's revenues -- it is hard to see how things improve next year. 
Our auto analyst is looking for a 4 percent drop in vehicle production in 2003, compared with this year. The fall off in aerospace construction hasn't happened yet, but orders have dropped off a lot. We are looking for a 15 percent to 20 percent decline in airplane construction next year. And it is hard to see how the housing market gets much better. 
In addition, in the last year there have been dramatic global increases in inventories. Prices are already under pressure, and supply growth looks like it will outpace demand for several years.

Q. The International Trade Commission disallowed some additional tariff protection on cold-rolled steel last week. What effect will that have on the steel industry?

A. The I.T.C. decision is not that damaging to steel producers. They were already protected.
We have been pretty skeptical of the steel story for some time and felt the last thing the industry needed was more protection. The world has about one billion tons of steelmaking capacity, and we really only need about 850 million tons. But governments around the world, including and especially the United States, continue to protect the high-cost producers. As long as that continues, this oversupply situation will continue. 
That said, the tariffs put into place this year have without question improved domestic pricing this year, and next year you will see higher contract realizations. But these tariffs are temporary, and profitability gained through short-term tariffs warrants a very low equity multiple. 

Q. What is your view on copper mining companies?

A. The outlook for copper is actually pretty good. It is one of the few commodities where prices will stop falling and start rising, because the easy, near-surface deposits have already been depleted.
Right now, copper prices are a little bit below 70 cents a pound. At that level, about 5 percent of the world's supply is cash negative, which means companies are spending more to mine it than to sell it. Even if the economy doesn't rebound, eventually you will see more production curtailments. 

Q. Are there copper stocks you like?

A. The purest play out there is Phelps Dodge, but we are not positive on the stock because the future price of the metal is already reflected in the company's stock price. And we are also concerned about projected cost reductions, which we don't think can be realized.
The copper plays we do recommend are Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold Inc. and Rio Tinto Zinc, which trades as an A.D.R. in this country. 
Freeport-McMoRan is the lowest-cost producer of copper in the world. They are the lowest because they have a huge copper and gold deposit in Indonesia. That is the problem with the stock, even though it is the greatest mining asset in the world. But investing in mining shares involves political risk. You could argue that Arizona and New Mexico have big political risks, too, because those are not easy places to operate a mine. 

Q. What are the prospects for coal?

A. As recently as 1998, when the Kyoto Protocol was signed, I was not thrilled about coal.
We don't disagree with the findings about global warming, but coal is a critical part of the energy equation in this country: over half the electricity generated in the U.S. is coal-fired power generation. It is the cheapest delivered fossil fuel. 
We think stocks like Arch Coal are trading at very attractive valuations. Arch is trading at less than four times our 2003 estimate of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. For a quality company with decades of reserves, much of which has a low sulfur content, that is a very attractive valuation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter D. Ward 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SURFACE MINING (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); COPPER MINING (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); COPPER MARKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (68%) METALS AND MINERALS; MINES AND MINING; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); ALCOA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LEHMAN BROTHERS 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; WARD, PETER D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



23 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Girlhood, Chickdom and Womanliness 

BYLINE:  By PENELOPE GREEN 

 BODY:
WELCOME, gender explorer. Today is the perfect time for you to become the kind of woman you want to be."
 Those are the first words of "Miss Vera's Cross-Dress for Success: A Resource Guide for Boys Who Want to Be Girls" (Villard, $12.95). It is the second book by Veronica Vera, headmistress of the world's first cross-dressing academy, Miss Vera's Finishing School for Boys Who Want to Be Girls, which opened in Manhattan in 1992. 
 With this title, she invites readers to cherchez la femme within by wearing proper footwear and supportive undergarments and by learning good grooming habits. Stories of happy academy graduates, like George, a fish-and-game warden who transformed himself into Michelle, a housewife, help Miss Vera, who indeed is a woman, evoke what she calls a "tranny planet." Miss Vera reminds us that "tranny" is short for transgender, a word used to define anyone, she says, from a feminist to a post-op transsexual who wants "to transcend the confines of gender." 
"For every woman who burned her bra," Miss Vera writes, "there is a man ready to wear one." For Miss Vera, femininity is totally do it yourself. "Change your outerwear and you reveal the inner you," she writes.
But what kind of girl is inside? This question informs more than Miss Vera's manual. The muse of total girlhood (and how to shop for it) hovers over much of this fall's style reading list. 
In "Girl Anatomy" (William Morrow, $24.95) she appears as Lilly, a label-conscious sprite in high heels and low-rise jeans.
"Girl Anatomy," a roman a clef, is the first novel of Rebecca Bloom, a 26-year-old Brown graduate, a jewelry designer and Hollywood sprig. Ms. Bloom's father is Jake Bloom, an entertainment industry lawyer, and her press materials describe a childhood surrounded by "powerhouse V.I.P.'s and celebrities like Arnold Schwarzenegger, Nicolas Cage and James Caan." (Manly mentors for a girly girl?)
Anyway, Lilly is an assistant to an editor at Chick magazine, "a new magazine for the too-cool-for-school girl," testing products and laboring under "deadlines with psychos breathing down my scrawny neck." She pines for new clothes, and struggles with a dark mood brought on by a friend's engagement as well as with a powerful inner duality: "One of me lives in a world of cheap bars, thrift store furniture and vintage clothes. The other resides in a pink palace dotted with contemporary art, Prada pillows and movie stars." There are lots and lots of narrative details, which mostly read like the captions in Lucky magazine. Actually, you might want to have a copy of Lucky around as a reader's aid to give you a mental picture of Earl jeans or John Fluevog shoes.
"At this stage in my life," Ms. Bloom writes, "black pants are my staple. Not just any pair of black pants, but my Katayone Adeli pinstripe lightweight wool trousers." Lilly likes to wear them with "an overpriced Rolling Stones baseball T-shirt with a smattering of rhinestones, high-heeled black boots and a long, black coat." Luckily, Lilly is blessed with a fabulously dressed, supportive family that nurses her through the dark times (and many outfits), after which she finds happiness with her former love, Jonah, and the "time to savor and loll about in my total and complete chickdom." Are women born to shop, asks Thomas Hine, author of "I Want That! How We All Became Shoppers" (HarperCollins, $24.95). With a soupcon of neuroscience and a dash of evolutionary psychology, Mr. Hines explains that while men have demonstrated the upper hand in exercises like mentally rotating an imagined object in space, they are unable to locate said object in a contemporary department store.
Mr. Hines debunks the hunter-gatherer explanation for women's shopping prowess, which argues that the habit of shopping is a holdover from all the rooting around girls did while the boys were out killing mammoths. According to archaeological evidence, both sexes hunted and gathered, Mr. Hines points out. As he sees it, the reason for a woman's overwhelming assumption of (and delight in) shopping duties can be chalked up to her "willingness to take primary responsibility for the well-being" of her family. (Spit-shine your halos, ladies!) Weaving contemporary cultural studies, anthropology, science and his own powers of observation, Mr. Hines proposes that shopping "is a modern way of assuming a primal responsibility."
The connection between products and feminine behavior is entertainingly documented in "Pink Think: Becoming a Woman in Many Uneasy Lessons," by Lynn Peril (W. W. Norton & Company, $15.95). Using her own deliciously quaint collection of pop-culture curiosities (Ms. Peril calls it "femorabilia") that include magazine ads, child-rearing and teenage manuals, home-economics textbooks and teenage novels, products and games, the author unveils a social history of femininity from 1940 to 1970. Through board games with names like Miss Popularity and Park and Shop -- both intended to teach the womanly art of shopping --and advertisements for products like a Lysol douche, Ms. Peril reveals an entire world organized around raising and/or becoming a tidy wife and mother who keeps her mouth shut, her legs crossed and her skirts wrinkle-free.
Another sendup of women's tortured relationship with self-improvement is "I Love My Hair," (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, $12.95) by Maria Peevey and Megan Weinerman. A deadpan takeoff on the self-help movement, this bright pink workbook is full of exercises and affirmations: learn to love your hair by drawing a picture of it; perk yourself up by writing your favorite affirmations on flashcards ("I've got it and you can't have it."); feel rich by making dollar bills out of green construction paper and pasting your own photo in the center. You'll also learn how to redecorate your room with glow-in-the-dark planets and stars. "If you don't like the world you're in," the authors write, "make one up by building your own universe in your bedroom."
There is profound interior inspiration in "Super Suite: The Ultimate Bedroom Makeover for Girls," by Mark Montano (Universe, $17.95), a New York City fashion designer and the author of CosmoGirl's Cool Room column. "Super Suite" documents Mr. Montano's makeovers of 15 rooms belonging to real live teenage girls. In it, you'll learn how to make your own throne, about a headboard made from cookie sheets, a pop-art masterpiece made from 250 blue plastic cups, and a Warholian poster of . . . yourself.
Mr. Montano showcases the girls and their rooms beautifully, and you'll find yourself longing for a pink polyester-satin bedspread ($13 at a five-and-dime store), a sheaf of $1 posters of Hindu deities and a few quarts of high-gloss hot-pink enamel, No. 2077-30 from Benjamin Moore, a color the company calls Hot Lips.
"Super Suite" presents the fall's most engaging transformations (though the story of Gayle, the Southern entrepreneur and grandfather who became a bride at Miss Vera's academy, is pretty sweet, too).
The most eye-popping, however, are delivered by the cast and sets portrayed in "Be My Guest: Theme Party Savoir Faire," by Rena Sindi (Assouline, $34.95). Ms. Sindi is a New York social figure and party lover who has staged all manner of elaborate shindigs for her friends in Manhattan's shiny set. Fourteen of them, from an "Arabian Nights" 30th birthday for her husband to a Venetian-style bal masque, are reproduced here. 
Photographed by Jessica Craig-Martin, this navel-close view of the haute bourgeoisie with the women writhing in jewel-encrusted bustiers and the men slightly ridiculous in their turbans and togas, both attracts and repels. You can't help comparing it with the wretched excess dos of the last boom, but, jeez, those tycoons were so square -- those Steinbergs and Kravises -- with their hoedowns and their living tableaus. This crowd is younger and hipper, and its borders are more permeable (you'll see a model or two in the mix). The result is more sophisticated, and possibly more decadent: a photograph of the doll-like Paris Hilton, her skin as smooth as nail enamel, reveals an expression of ecstatic nothingness that is more frightening than anything I've seen in a while. 
Why a theme party, you wonder? What does it all mean? Ms. Sindi explains: "I'll never forget that first excited shock that hit me when I walked into Pia and Christopher Getty's 'Tarzan and Jane' party a few summers ago," she writes. "Everywhere I looked, the buttoned-up women I knew from the city floated by in tiny, cut-suede dresses, loosely knotted sarongs, coconut bras and leopard spots. Their husbands had traded in their suits for loincloths, cheetah-print G-strings and, in my own husband's case, Zulu warrior garb in the form of a shield and not much else. He dragged me into the tent on a rope, which stunned more than a few guests but earned us Pia's prize for best costume: a sterling silver banana" 
That banana, writes Ms. Sindi, "is precisely what this book is all about."
Miss Vera would be proud.

GRAPHIC: Drawings 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSGENDER PERSONS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (85%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); READY TO WEAR (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); LITERATURE (76%); LINGERIE (74%); FOOTWEAR (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (61%); JEWELRY (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; WOMEN; TRANSSEXUALS 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (55%); NICOLAS CAGE (50%) GREEN, PENELOPE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



24 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HIGHBRIDGE; 
Park's Ornate Ex-Restroom May Become Ornate Wendy's

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
A plan to convert a former Parks Department comfort station in Highbridge in the Bronx into a Wendy's restaurant sounds great to Helen Beck, 65. She waits for the No. 18 bus outside the former restroom, built in the neo-Classical style around 1920, on her way home from work every day.
 The mostly brick structure with Corinthian columns looks pretty good, considering it has sat unused on the southern edge of Keltch Park near the elevated No. 4 train since at least the mid-1980's. But looks are not the problem, Ms. Beck says. After the place was closed, homeless men continued to use it for its original purpose, but from the outside. "When it rained you couldn't go near it, because you would die," Ms. Beck said. 
 The Wendy's would be welcome, not just because it would clean up the park and salvage the building. "Maybe some of the kids in the neighborhood can get jobs," she said.
Those are the ideas behind a joint proposal from Wendy's and the nonprofit South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation. They recently submitted the plan to the Parks Department in response to a request for proposals from food concessionaires.
According to the plan, Wendy's would pay the Parks Department a guaranteed $19,500 fee yearly as well as 2 percent of gross sales above $1.15 million to become the western anchor of the East 170th Street commercial strip. The nonprofit has wanted to improve that area for years. The restaurant would employ about 40 people.
"In addition to the public amenity of a restaurant, the area will get an economic development boost instead of having a vacant building," said Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner. He declined to comment on specific proposals the department had received until a decision is made. But several economic development corporation officials said they believed theirs was the only submission.
The idea to convert the 1,200-square-foot space into a restaurant has floated around for about a decade, said Mario Bodden, the corporation's director of commercial revitalization. 
A plan to bring in McDonald's fell through in the 1990's, and Wendy's has been interested for at least three years. The design calls for about $500,000 in renovations, and will try to preserve the historical features of the building while adding some 1,000 square feet in greenhouse-like extensions on either side of it to create a 96-seat dining area.
Mr. Benepe said that if all goes smoothly, a public hearing could be conducted by October, followed by construction. 
If so, it will have been a long time coming. Among the documents included in the proposal is a letter from Community Board 4, noting that its economic development committee approved such a renovation on Dec. 14, 1995. SETH KUGEL

GRAPHIC: Photo: This neo-Classical structure, built around 1920, could once again become a place to take a break. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); APPROVALS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (55%) PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; BATHROOMS AND TOILETS; RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC; SOUTH BRONX OVERALL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; KELTCH PARK (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



25 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/O. Thomas Barry III; 
Bjurman, Barry Micro-Cap Growth Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
AS manager of the $274 million Bjurman, Barry Micro-Cap Growth fund, O. Thomas Barry III has prospered by picking stocks that others may rarely explore.
"Few people know about micro-cap stocks, and they're too small for most major institutions to care about," Mr. Barry said from his office in Los Angeles. "It's a very attractive, inefficient part of the market." 
 The companies in the fund have a median market capitalization of $221 million, versus $380 million for the Russell 2000 Growth index, a benchmark for small-cap growth stocks. 
 The fund returned 26.7 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, placing in the top 1 percent of all funds that buy small-cap growth stocks, which lost 3.9 percent, annualized, according to Morningstar Inc. The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index lost 8.9 percent a year, on average, during that time. The fund lost 6.5 percent in the last 12 months, versus declines of 23.2 percent for its group and 18.9 percent for the index.
Mr. Barry, 57, is chief investment officer and senior executive vice president of Bjurman, Barry & Associates, the fund's adviser, which manages about $700 million for individuals and institutions. The fund reopened to new investors in May but plans to close again when assets reach $400 million. 
In choosing stocks, he rarely meets with corporate executives. "I feel that talking to management is generally a waste of time, because the information is already in the price of the stock," he said. "I'd rather see what the company's doing than what management says it's doing." 
Each week, he screens 1,900 companies with market caps of $30 million to $300 million, seeking undervalued companies with strong earnings growth. The computer model reviews trailing and projected 12-month earnings growth per share, analysts' revisions to 12-month earnings estimates and the ratio of a company's price-to-earnings multiple to its projected earnings growth in the next three to five years.
It also reviews each company's multiple of price to cash flow -- earnings before interest, taxes and noncash charges. Cash flow is important, he said, because it "lets the company continue to grow without having to look to outside financing." 
Next, he tries to find the 10 to 15 industries that he believes will be the strongest performers over the next 6 to 12 months. In the best positions now, he said, are health care, military contracting and consumer nondurable products. 
Mr. Barry does additional research to winnow the the top-ranked 190 generated by the computer model; the fund holds about 150 stocks. He tries to determine, for example, whether a company's products or services will continue to sell as quickly as in the past. 
He also looks for rising stock prices over the last six months. "Over all, the stock price reflects what we see as the company's fundamentals," he said. 
The fund considers selling shares when a company reports worse-than-expected quarterly earnings or when a stock falls 15 percent or more from the purchase price or from a recent high, after accounting for overall market declines. 
Mr. Barry began buying shares of FTI Consulting, based in Annapolis, Md., in March 2001. He paid $10 a share, on average for the position; the shares now trade at $36.42. 
The company, whose consultants specialize in helping distressed businesses, announced plans recently to acquire the bankruptcy consulting division of PricewaterhouseCoopers. The deal is expected to close in the fall. "Distressed businesses are a big deal right now, given what's happening in the economy," he said, adding that the acquisition would bolster earnings. Partly because of the acquisition, Wall Street projects that FTI's earnings will be $2 a share in 2003, up from a predicted $1.20 a share for 2002.
MR. BARRY started building a position in the Panera Bread Company, based in Richmond Heights, Mo., in September 2000. Panera owns or franchises about 400 bakery-cafes, he said, and he expects earnings growth of about 50 percent this year and 40 to 50 percent in 2003.
He paid an average of $10 a share for the position; the stock is now at $28.36.
U.S. Physical Therapy, which is based in Houston and operates physical therapy centers, is an investment in the health care needs of baby boomers, Mr. Barry said. 
The boomers, he said, "are trying to be weekend warriors, and their bodies are not able to handle it." The company's management is containing costs, improving sales and opening new facilities, he added, despite the poor economy.
He began buying shares in October 2000, paying $8, on average, for the entire position. The stock now trades at $14.54.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager O. Thomas Barry III specializes in micro-cap stocks, which he calls too small for most major institutions to care about. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) Chart: "Bjurman, Barry Micro-Cap Growth"Category: Small-cap growthNet assets: $274 millionInception: March 1997Manager: O. Thomas Barry III since inceptionMinimum purchase: $5,000 ($2,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 159%3-year annualized return through Thursday: +26.7%Category average: 3.9% Sector breakdownOther: 27%Consumer/industrial services: 10%Retail: 10%Consumer services: 11%Electronic technology: 21%Health care: 21% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.80% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (75%); RANKINGS (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BJURMAN FUNDS 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; BARRY, O THOMAS III 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



26 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: After the Veil, a Makeover Rush 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
IN May, Debbie Rodriguez found herself in Kabul, Afghanistan, on a relief mission with a group of American doctors, nurses, dentists and social workers. Ms. Rodriguez, a hairdresser from Holland, Mich., had volunteered to work as a videographer and gofer. But she quickly found that the need for medicine, dental fillings and counseling was nothing next to the pent-up demand for a makeover.
 "When word got out there was a hairdresser in the country," Ms. Rodriguez said, "it just got crazy. I was doing haircuts every 15 minutes." 
 As burkas come off and salons closed by the Taliban reopen, one consequence of two decades of war and repression is becoming poignantly clear: Afghan women have held on to their desire to look beautiful, but they face a woeful shortage of beauticians. Also, they have no one to teach them and nowhere to lay their hands on a decent comb, let alone the panoply of gels, rinses, powders, liners and colors that spill from the shelves of the average American drugstore. 
Now, in an effort guaranteed to warm the hearts of Vogue readers everywhere, a Who's Who of the American beauty industry, helped along by Vogue's editor in chief, Anna Wintour, is racing to the rescue.
Sometime this month, a 1,200-square-foot building in the compound of the Afghan Ministry of Women's Affairs will open its doors to a group of women handpicked to learn five basic haircuts, the A B C's of makeup artistry and the dos and don'ts of manicures, pedicures and waxing. There will be 300-page manuals and instructional videos. There will be ample supplies of Matrix hair-care products and M.A.C. cosmetics and Revlon nail polish. There may even be an Aveda herb garden to bring aromatherapy to a land that has smelled too much of death and destruction and too little of lavender and lemon grass.
The first students will be local haircutters chosen to become the school's permanent faculty. And the first teachers will be a visiting group of exiles: returning women who fled their country a generation ago, resettled in the United States and pursued the American dream with a pair of scissors.
The seed for the project was planted during a conversation in late 2000 between a woman and her hair stylist. The woman in the chair was Mary MacMakin, a longtime advocate for women in Afghanistan who was being profiled in the March 2001 issue of Vogue. The woman doing her hair was Terri Grauel, a Manhattan stylist hired for the magazine's photo assignment.
Ms. MacMakin, an American grandmother in her 70's, lived in Afghanistan for a quarter-century and in 1998 founded Parsa, for Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation in Support of Afghanistan, to help the country's countless war widows provide for themselves by cultivating cottage industries like spinning wool and making silk scarves. In July 2000, the Taliban accused her of spying and expelled her.
Nearly a year later, after American and allied forces had ousted the Taliban, Ms. Grauel sent an e-mail message to Ms. MacMakin -- who had returned to Kabul to resume putting Afghan women to work -- offering to sell Parsa's handicrafts to her clients in New York. Ms. MacMakin countered with a more ambitious proposal: Kabul could use a beauty school, for cosmetic reasons, sure, but for economic reasons above all. Ms. Grauel jumped at the idea. In January, she and Patricia O'Connor, a marketing consultant to the beauty industry, set up the Body and Soul Wellness Program, and the two enlisted Ms. Wintour's help. In May, Vogue invited 15 beauty-industry executives to a luncheon where Ms. MacMakin and the two New Yorkers made their pitch.
It was an easy sell, said Ms. Wintour, whose magazine got the curlers rolling with a $25,000 donation.
"We've been involved in many, many different charitable things," she said. "But this is one that I was particularly drawn to. The beauty industry is incredibly philanthropic. But here we could be helpful not only with financial support, but through teaching and with product. Through the school, we could not only help women in Afghanistan to look and feel better but also to give them employment."
Easily the best spokeswomen for the project, however, are the handful of Afghan women who survived an earlier period of strife and are now planning to return home for a few months to train a faculty for the beauty school.
One is Shaima Ali, the owner of a small salon in Glendale, Queens, who emigrated from Afghanistan with her two daughters in 1982 after her husband was killed during the Soviet invasion.
"Once Afghanistan was in the news all the time last fall, it was really difficult for me," she said. "To see those children, those women -- to see the planes dropping food -- running for a piece of bread. Dry bread. I could've been one of them, running. I wanted to do something to help, but I'm just a hairdresser. Then, when Terri called and said she was looking for Afghan-American hairdressers, tears were rolling from my eyes. God had heard my prayer."
As an immigrant in New York, Ms. Ali took a string of low-paying jobs before she put herself through beauty school and opened her own business. She said she hoped to persuade her countrywomen that if she could do so well in a strange land, they could do even better at home.
"Sixty percent of Afghan women are widows," Ms. Ali said. "They need ways to see that they are human. I was in the lowest part of my life when I came to this country. I'm here 20 years, but good or bad, I have some sort of life. I pay my bills, I put food on my table. In their own country, in their own language, talking to each other, they can help each other like that."
Ms. Ali has not been back to Afghanistan yet, but Ms. Grauel recently spent two weeks in Kabul arranging for construction of the school. While there, she also visited about 20 salons that have opened in the last year.
"I was just appalled by the lack of sanitation," she said. "They're using rusty scissors, they'll have one cheap comb for the whole salon and they don't sanitize it, there's no running water or Barbisol, and there's a real lice problem. They'll use wooden sticks and rubber bands to do perms. And there's no cotton, so perm solution would just drip down a client's face.
"They're doing it, but they really need the education. They don't have any technique whatsoever. There are so many Westerners there who don't have their hair done in the salons because of that; they'll go to Dubai or Pakistan instead."
"There are weddings going on on almost a daily basis now, so there's plenty of business for the salons, because under the Taliban weddings were like funerals, with no music, so a lot of weddings were put on hold," she added. "But they're making it up as they go along. The hairdressers are self-taught. They look at magazines and catalogs and just emulate them the best they can, but the newest ones there are three years old."
Not surprisingly, Ms. Grauel said, her talk of a beauty school got an enthusiastic reception from workers in Kabul's scruffy salons. "They kept saying, 'Don't forget about me!' " she said.
Back in New York, Ms. O'Connor has been marshaling the resources of the beauty industry, lining up donations and parceling out portions of the curriculum. Simply translating existing manuals is not enough, she said, because a high percentage of Afghan women are illiterate. So M.A.C., the cosmetics concern, for instance, is preparing a videotaped course of instruction in makeup.
"This activity is not a branded activity, it's an industry activity," said John Demsey, president of M.A.C., a division of Estee Lauder. "We all parked our corporate hats outside for a moment and basically mobilized ourselves in terms of providing education, product and service, and not necessarily just touting our own brand."
All told, Ms. O'Connor said, the industry has already agreed to donate $300,000 to $400,000 in products and training materials. It will cost about $20,000 to build the school, but she and Ms. Grauel are hoping to raise $150,000 to $250,000 to cover start-up costs and a few years' operating expenses.
The American companies backing the Kabul school say they have no intention of turning it into a vehicle for promoting their products to a fledgling market. But there are marketing points to be made here in the United States. Executives at Estee Lauder repeatedly noted, for example, that the company was the first at Ms. Wintour's luncheon to make a cash gift. And one cosmetics executive suggested that the beauty school could not be judged a success if it did not create a demand for American cosmetics before too long.
Yet those executives may be surprised to learn of Ms. Grauel's latest brainstorm. With haircuts going for the equivalent of 50 cents in Kabul, she said, there is no way Afghan salons will be able to afford American supplies once the donations run out. But Ms. Grauel said she recently discovered a Long Island company, owned by Afghan immigrants, that may fill that void.
"They knock off American beauty products in Asia, so they're not as expensive," Ms. Grauel said. "That would be just great for us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEAUTY AID -- Terri Grauel, a Manhattan hairdresser and stylist, shows an Afghan woman in Kabul how to apply her makeup. (Natalie Behring-Chisholm/Getty Images)(pg. 1); RENEWED INTEREST -- A group of Afghan women, their hair set in plastic curlers, waiting their turn at a beauty salon in Kabul.; AMERICAN KNOW-HOW -- Terri Grauel gives a lesson in cutting and layering.; ESSENTIAL -- Kabul salons have lacked even the basics like mirrors. (Photographs by Natalie Behring-Chisholm/Getty Images)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (88%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); WOMEN (78%); TALIBAN (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); COSMETICS (71%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (60%) COSMETICS AND TOILETRIES; BEAUTY SALONS; HAIR; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (54%) VOGUE (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: WINTOUR, ANNA; HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN; KABUL (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



27 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Moving Down the Highway, Privacy Intact 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Tracking Bay Area Traffic Creates Concern for Privacy" (news article, Aug. 26) provides a good example of how the managers of high-tech traffic systems respect motorists' privacy. 
 In fact, transponders have been used in traffic management for several years in other states without privacy violations. 
Privacy has long been a concern of the transportation technology community, which has adopted formal guidelines.
With more than 41,000 people dying on roads in the United States each year, making our highways safer and more efficient must be a priority.
Transponders and other technologies -- known as intelligent transportation systems -- are effective ways to save lives, as well as improve security, mobility, our economy and our environment. 
These solutions to our transportation woes can be used while protecting each traveler's privacy and freedom.

NEIL D. SCHUSTER
Washington, Aug. 29, 2002

The writer is president and chief executive of the Intelligent Transportation Society of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INTELLIGENT TRANSPORT SYSTEMS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PRIVACY 

PERSON: SCHUSTER, NEIL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



28 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Forecast Too Sunny? Try the Anxious Index

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
YOU almost wonder whether Wall Street's economists were competing with their colleagues in equity research departments to see who could make worse predictions.
 While the analysts were saying early last year that the stocks of Enron and the telecommunications sector were undervalued, the economists were forecasting that the country would escape recession. Whenever bad economic news emerged, many economists pushed their rosy predictions a few weeks into the future. Few acknowledged the recession until it was nearly over. 
 Now the economy is looking weak again, and the forecasters have assured us that growth is going to pick up soon. Is there any reason to believe them? 
Based on history, the answer is no. As a group, Wall Street economists have failed to predict any of the three recessions in the last 20 years, according to records kept by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Hidden in the economists' forecasts, however, is a little-known economic indicator -- call it the Anxious Index -- that has been an impressively reliable warning light for recessions. It deserves to steal some of the attention from the oft-quoted prognostications of imminent growth.
Predicting shifts in the $10 trillion United States economy is quite difficult. Economists know that optimism is usually the best bet because the economy grows more often than it shrinks. "A great many forecasters forecast the recent past," said Robert Barbera, the chief economist at Hoenig & Company, a small investment firm in Port Chester, N.Y. "You'll be right 70 percent of the time," added Mr. Barbera, one of the few economists to call last year's recession.
The handful of accurate forecasters came almost exclusively from boutique firms or college campuses, and this is probably not a coincidence. Like stock analysts, economists at big banks and brokerage firms have a financial incentive to predict good times. The profits of their companies -- and thus some of their own pay, which can reach seven figures for chief economists -- depend on people's confidence and their willingness to buy stocks.
Given these conflicts, the steady predictions that the economy will grow by an annual rate of about 3 percent in coming quarters deserves about the same consideration as the constant chorus of "buy" recommendations on stocks. 
James E. Cayne, chief executive of Bear Stearns, acknowledged as much while testifying two years ago during a trial to determine whether the firm should repay a client who lost millions of dollars based on its poor currency predictions. Economists "don't really have a good record as far as predicting the future," Mr. Cayne said. "I think that it is entertainment," he said, referring to their work.
That may be a bit harsh. Even if their overall forecasts are unreliable, some economists at big banks and brokerage firms produce thought-provoking research about narrower areas like housing and debt. Many might also have a keener sense of foreboding than they are willing to admit publicly.
ENTER the Anxious Index. 
In addition to keeping track of the forecasts of economists, the Philadelphia Fed asks them near the middle of each quarter to estimate the odds that the economy will shrink over the coming year. The economists give a percentage for the current quarter and each of the next four.
The magic number for the Anxious Index seems to be 30. When forecasters think that there is a 30 percent chance that the economy will shrink in the coming quarter, a downturn usually follows. "When we're up in that range, it really means a recession could happen at any time," said Dean Croushore, an economist at the Philadelphia Fed.
(To take a look at the index, type in http://www.phil.frb.org/files/spf/prob.txt and check under "Mean Probability of Decline in Real G.D.P." The fifth column from the left covers the quarter after the survey.)
The index rose above 30 before every recession since 1968, the earliest date for which the Fed has data. In good times, the index hovers around 10. It is not perfect. It has sometimes remained above 30 even after recessions ended and raised a false alarm after the 1987 stock market crash. But the Anxious Index has a far superior record to economists' actual predictions.
So what does it say these days? After jumping to almost 32 early last year, shortly before the recession, it remained high until this year's second quarter, then fell to about 14. It moved to 18 in the most recent survey, reflecting the summer's weak spending and stock market declines but still not suggesting that a double-dip recession is likely.
Think of the Anxious Index as a translator for those relentlessly bullish Wall Street forecasts. Right now, the economists appear to mean what they are saying.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with the Economic View column, about the reliability of economists' forecasts, mislabeled percentage figures from a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. The bars denoted economists' estimate of the chances that the economy would shrink in the next quarter -- not the percentage of economists who said the economy would shrink.

GRAPHIC: GraphShare of Wall Street economists who said the economy would shrink in the next quarter. Graph shows the economy since 1999. (Source: Philadelphia Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); STATISTICS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (69%); HOENIG & CO LTD (66%); HOENIG & CO INC (66%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: JIMMY CAYNE (58%); JAMES E CAYNE (50%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



29 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2041 words

HEADLINE: The Race to Predict Terror's Costs 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
VERY soon after watching the World Trade Center crumple, Karen Clark knew that she was going to have to be personally involved. In her own way, she would have to take on terrorism. 
 Small and determined, with rimless glasses and silvering hair, she knows little about suicide pilots and truck bombs, or how to thwart them. But she is a pioneer in calculating probable catastrophic losses from natural disasters like earthquakes and hurricanes for insurance companies. 
 After the Sept. 11 attacks, the insurance industry was facing its biggest single loss ever -- property, liability, life and workers' compensation claims estimated at about $50 billion. The previous record, from Hurricane Andrew in 1992, was $15.5 billion. And this time the disaster was created by humans, who are even less predictable than the forces of nature. 
The insurance companies were in a panic. They had to find a way to get a handle on terrorism. So they turned to Ms. Clark. For years, she had quantified the likelihood of hurricanes and their potential costs. Now maybe she could do it with terrorism.
It was a monumental challenge, involving billions of dollars for the hundreds of companies in the insurance industry and perhaps tens of millions in annual revenue for Ms. Clark and her organization, AIR Worldwide. Her reputation and the health of her company were on the line, as rival companies struggled with the same lethal puzzle.
"There was this race aspect to it," Ms. Clark, 45, said at her headquarters in a downtown Boston office tower. "We basically wanted to meet the needs of our clients before our competitors did."
Chief among those rivals was Hemant Shah, the chief executive of a firm called Risk Management Solutions. In Newark, Calif., near San Francisco, Mr. Shah, a Stanford University civil engineer, had been receiving urgent appeals from clients, too. "We knew we had to work swiftly," he said in a telephone interview.
Now, just days before the anniversary of the terror attacks, Ms. Clark appears to have crossed the finish line first. On Tuesday, she plans to formally announce that AIR, a unit of Insurance Services Office Inc., which collects data for the insurance industry, has completed its terrorism project. It has solved the puzzle in part by using an approach developed during the cold war that turns educated guesses into numerical rankings that are cranked into a computer to determine risk.
In fact, AIR has already sold its work, in the form of a computer model, to two insurers. The price is negotiable, but Ms. Clark said she would charge up to $200,000 a year for major insurers who are already paying $500,000 to $750,000 a year for her estimates on natural calamities. Mr. Shah said he plans to unveil a less complete but, he contends, more accurate program on Sept. 18 at a conference for clients in New York. Several clients, he said, have placed orders for a program that can cost up to $300,000 a year. 
Ms. Clark's current clients for her program are treating her data as if it were top secret, even though the concepts will undoubtedly be well known by the end of the year as she signs up more customers. The first two clients refused, through Ms. Clark, to discuss any aspect of it, even after assurance that they would not have to disclose its exact uses. Mr. Shah, 36, said he knew that being second might cost him business but decided to take that risk for a more thorough program.
The products that Ms. Clark and Mr. Shah have developed are crucial to insurers' future. Immediately after the September attacks, the insurance companies canceled most of their coverage for terrorism, fearful that the risks were too unpredictable. But state regulators forced them to keep the terrorism protection in workers' compensation policies, so people hurt at their jobs would have some recourse. Major insurers have billions in these liabilities on their books.
Last fall, the insurers began campaigning for a federal commitment to pay most of the losses from major attacks, and Congress is still considering the issue. In the meantime, the demand for terrorism insurance has surged -- nearly every business seems to want it to cover buildings and the people in them. If the government ultimately refuses to step in, experts expect an increasing number of big insurance companies to offer coverage anyway -- as a few have begun doing since last fall, at very high prices. Should the government intervene, most insurers would be required to provide substantial amounts of terrorism coverage.
Either way, the questions troubling insurers are likely to be intensified: What might be hit next? In what form? At what cost? How often will attacks come?
Neither computer program tries to predict when terrorists will strike next. With Ms. Clark's program, an insurer can crank in the physical and location details on the properties it covers, and it will provide a range of probabilities of an attack involving those properties in any given year. It will also provide a damage assessment from a World Trade Center-style attack with an aircraft or bombs, from a small package of explosives the size of a cake box to an enormous truck bomb that could maim thousands in a crowded place. Mr. Shah's program does not estimate the likelihood of an attack but concentrates on what damage might be done with a variety of weapons.
Both provide quantitative measures of risk that help insurers decide whether to extend coverage and how much to charge in premiums.
Ms. Clark built the terrorism model with about a dozen engineers, statisticians and mathematicians who had been tracking hurricanes and a panel of terrorism experts, some of whom earned their stripes working for the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. One, Oliver Revell, was a deputy director of the F.B.I. overseeing counterterrorism. Another, Peter Probst, spent 20 years in the C.I.A., concentrating on terrorism, political violence and insurgency.
Most of the team worked in Boston, often late into the night and sometimes through the weekends, fueled by pizza and takeout Thai food; the terrorism experts worked independently, collaborating with the others mainly by phone and e-mail.
Ms. Clark often slogged along with the team in Boston, pushing, encouraging, keeping everyone's eyes on the big picture. She had grown up in a small town in farm country west of Baltimore, drifting into economics partly because her father had stressed the importance of mathematics skills. After earning both a master's degree in economics and an M.B.A. at Boston University in 1982, she worked for an insurance company, then formed AIR.
She began her work on terrorism two days after Sept. 11.
The job is not yet finished. The group is still working on a strategy for measuring the effects of chemical, biological and nuclear attacks. That plan will take a few months.
Among the calamities studied by Ms. Clark's team were bombings in England by the Irish Republican Army and several attacks in Israel, but she decided that they were not a useful guide for potential threats in the United States. They involved strikingly different tactics than those used at the World Trade Center and in recent attacks against American embassies in Africa and American military personnel in Saudi Arabia and on the U.S.S. Cole in Yemen.
Mr. Shah's team studied the effects of two dozen weapons, compared with simply bombs and suicide pilots for the Boston group. 
Both acknowledge that their programs are, at this point, rather rough guides. "There's going to be a much greater margin of error in estimating the probability of a terrorist attack versus a hurricane strike," Ms. Clark said, "because we have so much more data on hurricanes and because we have a much greater understanding of the natural forces that cause hurricanes."
But she and some experts at insurance companies and rating agencies say her program is a first step in imposing rational measurement on what has been totally unquantifiable. "It's not precise," she said. "But it's better than anything else our clients have to use. And it is going to evolve. We are still fine-tuning our hurricane models," which were first made in the late 1980's. 
Keith Buckley, a managing director at Fitch Ratings, said the programs were likely to encourage insurers to increase the amount of terrorism coverage they write. He added that in some cases, particularly in workers' compensation coverage, the programs would probably indicate that they have written too much, would likely suffer heavy losses and should cut back. "This gives them a systematic way to look at the problem," Mr. Buckley said.
To make up for their lack of expertise, both Ms. Clark and Mr. Shah recruited specialists on terrorism. 
They decided that because the terrorists threatening the United States seemed to be trying for maximum psychological impact, they would build data bases with landmarks as their core focus, with the expectation that, as in the World Trade Center attack, many nearby buildings would be devastated as well.
AIR set about cataloging everything in the United States that might be considered a landmark -- from the Empire State Building in Manhattan and the Sears Tower in Chicago to City Hall in San Francisco, the Capitol in Carson City, Nev., and hundreds of stadiums, railway stations, bridges and tunnels. "That might seem easy to do in your hometown," said Patricia Donahue, a software specialist at AIR. "But try doing it for the entire country. It took us months." They ended up with 330,000 potential targets.
Mr. Shah said his team started out with hundreds of thousands of landmarks but boiled down the target list to about 1,000.
At each landmark, Ms. Clark's team figuratively triggered different sizes of explosives, sometimes at more than one location on the site. Then they calculated the damage to the landmark and the surroundings. The program can also detonate blasts at each property in an insurance company's coverage portfolio. If a company does not want to buy the program, it can pay for Ms. Clark to analyze a particular property or group of properties.
The hardest question facing the catastrophe experts was how often attacks might occur. With hurricanes, there are decades of data that show patterns and can be used for projections. For large-scale terrorism in the United States, there are three data points: the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, the 1995 bombing of the federal court house in Oklahoma City and the Sept. 11 attacks. And many consider the Oklahoma attack to be irrelevant because it was carried out by an angry young American, not an international terrorist group, the big worry now. Ms. Clark's team wound up relying mainly on its panel of experts for guessing the frequency of attacks.
At one point, Ms. Clark said, her team considered leaving it up to clients to come up with a frequency estimate. But she said she was convinced that clients wanted her to set down a marker. "They want to have some kind of default," she said.
Mr. Shah said it might be six months before his team figures out an estimate of the frequency of attacks. He may just give up. "This is very speculative," he said. "It requires a level of insight into what they are thinking that right now is not there."
While the insurance companies pushed Ms. Clark and Mr. Shah to develop ways to measure terrorism risk, many of them remain skeptical of the results. 
Ms. Clark has seen this attitude before -- in 1987 when the first program calculating hurricane losses was introduced. That experience suggests, disconcertingly, that for all their appeals for a system to deal with terrorism, the insurers may not flock to the terrorism programs until they have been measured against an actual attack.
"Before Hurricane Andrew, the industry research estimated the largest hurricane loss was likely to be about $7 billion," she said. "We had been saying, based on our models, that losses could run to $30 billion."
Then the storm hit south Florida. "Four hours after Andrew made landfall, we said the losses could exceed $13 billion. Nobody believed that, either. But six months later when the industry realized its losses were close to what we said they would be, the demand for our services increased dramatically."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Karen Clark's company has built models allowing insurers to gauge risk from disasters like earthquakes. Now she has developed a similar tool covering terrorist attacks. (Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Florida City, Fla., was ravaged by Hurricane Andrew in 1992. Insurers must predict the costs of natural disasters, and unnatural ones, like 9/11. (Associated Press)(pg. 12); The World Financial Centers Winter Garden was reconstructed after Sept. 11. Insurers face claims from the attacks estimated at $50 billion. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 13) Chart: "Costliest U.S. Disasters." EVENT: World Trade Center attackDATE: Sept. '01COST TO INSURERS: $40-50 billion EVENT: Hurricane AndrewDATE: Aug. '92COST TO INSURERS: 15.5 EVENT: Earthquake, Northridge, Calif.DATE: Jan. '94COST TO INSURERS: 12.5 EVENT: Hurricane HugoDATE: Sept. '89COST TO INSURERS: 4.2 EVENT: Tropical Storm AllisonDATE: June '01COST TO INSURERS: 2.5 EVENT: Hurricane OpalDATE: Oct. '95COST TO INSURERS: 2.1 EVENT: 20-state winter stormDATE: March '93COST TO INSURERS: 1.8 EVENT: Fire, Oakland, Calif.DATE: Oct. '91COST TO INSURERS: 1.7 EVENT: Hurricane InikiDATE: Sept. '92COST TO INSURERS: 1.6 EVENT: Wind, hail and rain, Texas and New MexicoDATE: May '95COST TO INSURERS: 1.1 (Source: Insurance Information Institute)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); INSURANCE (91%); HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); AIRLINES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (71%); INSURANCE RATING BUREAUS (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (71%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); COLD WAR (50%) TERRORISM; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INSURANCE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: VERISK ANALYTICS INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%) AIR WORLDWIDE; INSURANCE SERVICE OFFICE INC 

TICKER: VRSK (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; CLARK, KAREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



30 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Update on Capitalism: What Do You Mean 'Us,' Boss?

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
NOT long ago, before the accounting scandals at Enron, WorldCom and other companies, workers often saw themselves as management's best buddies. Gone was the old, us-against-them mentality in which workers viewed C.E.O.'s as robber barons intent on squeezing them for every last dollar. 
 In its place was a new world in which workers, with their stock options and 401(k) plans loaded with company stock, saw themselves as allied with management, not opposed to it. Pointing to the dot-com phenomenon, management theorists talked of a New Economy paradigm in which workers would link arms with executives because they were just as eager as their bosses to maximize company profits and stock prices. 
 The notion of worker exploitation was largely forgotten, at least among white-collar and high-technology employees, because it seemed so Old Economy. Corporate executives fostered an egalitarian atmosphere by using the same cafeterias and parking lots as their subordinates. They embraced an inclusive vocabulary in which workers were partners, associates, even fellow entrepreneurs, and to make workers identify with them, managers rewarded their new partners with stock options, bonuses and discount stock purchase plans. 
"In the 90's, half of American households became investors, so the line between being an employee and an investor began to blur," former Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said. "People were happy because it looked as if a rapidly rising tide was lifting all boats." Workers hardly seemed to worry about the need for workplace protections. With the economy and Wall Street booming, it seemed silly to fret about layoffs. Workers were busy boasting about, not worrying about, the size of their retirement nest eggs.
To this new species of investor-worker, unions seemed irrelevant. Unions made little headway as they sought to lure workers by promising the basic protections coveted in decades past, like health coverage and defined-benefit pensions. Union membership remained flat even as the 1990's boom created more than 15 million jobs. For many workers, the collective approach seemed anachronistic because they were confident that management would protect them or they could protect themselves. 
This logic seemed unassailable during the boom. But the paradigm began to crack with the high-tech bust and resulting layoffs, and crumbled with the recession and the Enron-led wave of scandals. At Enron, 4,200 workers were laid off; at WorldCom, 17,000.
Cara Alcantar, who accumulated 1,600 stock options in her four years at WorldCom, said she was naive to identify with WorldCom's chief executive. "I felt on the same side as Bernie Ebbers, on the cutting edge of technology," she said. "I worked extremely hard, and I couldn't imagine layoffs would ever happen to me.'
But on July 3, she was laid off. Now her stock options are worthless, WorldCom says it cannot pay her severance benefits, and the half of her retirement savings that were in WorldCom stock are virtually worthless. "Not only were they not looking out for our interests," Ms. Alcantar said, "they were so greedy they made sure the money went into their pockets." 
Before, she said, joining a union had never crossed her mind, but now she says she wishes WorldCom were unionized. With a union, she says, she might have had a defined-benefit pension that, unlike her vaporized 401(k) plan, would have guaranteed her benefits even after the stock market plunged. Labor leaders say that if Enron or WorldCom were unionized, unions would have won better pensions and severance benefits for the workers and, through their prying, might have forced the companies to be more honest about their books.
"We're seeing a real waking up across the nation because millions of workers are seeing that their economic futures are far less secure than they had been led to believe," said Harley Shaiken, a specialist in labor issues at the University of California at Berkeley.
A SURVEY released last week by Peter D. Hart Associates found that 66 percent of workers said they trusted their employers just some or not much at all. Such numbers, labor experts say, suggest that the nation may have reached a watershed in which workers conclude that they need collective protections to safeguard them from predatory executives and economic downturns.
It is unclear whether a deus ex machina will materialize to rescue the beleaguered workers. The most likely candidates are Washington, which seems uninterested, and organized labor, which is weak. 
Since the Enron scandal, President Bush and Congress have done little to protect workers even as they have rushed to protect investors. That is a far cry from 1963, when the Studebaker automobile company went under and more than 4,000 workers lost their pensions. In response, Congress, with a Republican senator, Jacob K. Javits, taking the lead, passed legislation that created strict pension protections. 
The post-Enron Congress has shunned even modest protections like rules to require companies to make promised severance payments or to let workers elect representatives to the board of their 401(k) plans. 
The Hart survey showed that workers are warming to unions, with 50 percent of nonunion workers saying they wanted to join a union, the highest level in two decades. 
It was labor's clout in Congress and collective bargaining that created the nation's system of worker protections, including the 40-hour week, pensions, health coverage and job safety rules. But unions are weak, representing less than 10 percent of the private-sector work force, down from 35 percent in the 1950's. Unions have been notably unsuccessful in wooing workers from New Economy industries, like software.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, John J. Sweeney, said he saw a pendulum swing in favor of collective protections. "One Enron worker told me, 'We trusted our employer, and liked our job, but when they threw us on on the street, we lost all trust,' " Mr. Sweeney said. "A lot of workers are saying to themselves, 'The same thing can happen to me.' " 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ETHICS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%) LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



31 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Thinking Big; 
In New York, Seeking a Grand Vision of Public Works

BYLINE:  By JAMES SANDERS 

 BODY:
EVEN as the world awaits the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, many have begun to question the slow and uncertain pace of the reconstruction process. Certainly, a daunting array of obstacles stand in the way, including complex jurisdictional disputes over who should be in charge and disagreements about the appropriate mix of uses and activities for the development itself.
 Hovering above these issues, however, is a more sweeping and historically significant question: Can New York City, which for more than a century led the world in the construction of major public works only to repudiate the practice some 30 years ago, somehow learn to build on a grand scale again? 
 While in the popular mind New York remains a place of skyscrapers and towering apartment houses -- most, of course, built privately -- the city's innovative tradition of public construction has perhaps been even more crucial to shaping its identity. Indeed, as a modern city, New York was essentially brought into being by one remarkably ambitious public project, the Erie Canal, and then welded together by another, the Brooklyn Bridge. A third, Central Park, became a model and inspiration for every city in America. 
And that was just in the 19th century.
After 1900, New York dazzled the world with one pioneering public-works project after another. In a matter of decades the city built the world's largest subway system, five of the longest suspension bridges ever built, the first underwater vehicular crossing in history (the Holland Tunnel) and the world's first urban arterial highway system. Though technically owned by private companies, the two great railroad stations that arose in these years -- Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station -- were models of public construction, reshaping the city fabric into wondrously intricate urban compositions.
On the eve of World War II, New York awed the nation with a futuristic World's Fair, then, a few years later, started work on America's first land-based international airport, covering more than 4,000 acres. No city on earth could match the energy New York displayed in remaking itself to meet the challenges of modern life -- nor the brilliance, daring and, in most cases, speed with which it carried out that remaking.
But after the war, something changed.
Though the pace of construction continued, the heroism, excitement and romance associated with New York's public efforts gave way to increasing criticism and, a few years later, active opposition. Much of the blame could be laid at the feet of the city's greatest public builder, Robert Moses.
In the decades before 1945, Moses had conceived and executed some of the metropolitan region's most imaginative and stylish public works, including Jones Beach, the Long Island state park and parkway system, the Triborough Bridge and Riverside Park. But in the postwar years he seemed to many to be building for the sake of building, plotting one expressway after another through dense communities and exploiting vast new federal powers and funding sources to level dozens of other neighborhoods for immense yet bland urban renewal projects.
Traditionally, large-scale public construction had meant the wholesale disruption of people's lives and the allocation of immense political and financial resources. But earlier generations of New Yorkers had accepted a calculus that saw the discomfort of those in the path of change -- and the exercise of immense power by a handful of (often) unelected individuals -- as the price of spectacular and innovative public improvements.
By the 1960's, however, that calculus no longer held for an increasing number of New Yorkers. 
For one thing, Moses' postwar projects offered little of the imagination or style that had marked his earlier work. For another, their physical and human cost had grown too high: hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers displaced from their homes, dozens of neighborhoods decimated. Behind it all was a growing suspicion of the very idea of the "master builder" -- especially as embodied by Moses, an increasingly remote and imperious figure.
THE fall from grace began in the early 1960's with the successful community opposition to a pair of unusually destructive projects -- a high-rise housing project slated for Greenwich Village and an eight-lane expressway that would cut across Lower Manhattan.
Soon neighborhoods everywhere rallied behind the ideas presented in the landmark book "The Death and Life of Great American Cities," written by the leader of that opposition effort, a Village resident named Jane Jacobs, who argued persuasively for a small-scale, incremental approach to urban development.
Perhaps the decisive blow came in 1974 with another book, "The Power Broker," Robert A. Caro's monumental biography of Moses himself, which revealed the sometimes brutal and almost always undemocratic means by which New York's master builder wielded his immense power. Yet, for all his criticism, Mr. Caro acknowledged that an autocratic, unelected figure like Moses solved a crucial dilemma for democratic societies: how to build the large public works that were essential to modern urban life but whose daunting time frame and enormous human and economic costs made them anathema to public officials, who fear alienating any segment of the electorate.
In the mid-1970's, as Moses' grand visions were superseded by Ms. Jacobs's localized approach -- more attuned to a generation that, in the wake of Vietnam and Watergate, tended to mistrust "big government" -- New York City overhauled its entire planning process to make the rise of another Robert Moses all but impossible. The autocratic planning of powerful agencies like the Port Authority was replaced by an elaborate community review process that allowed neighborhoods a say in projects that affected their future.
The rise of the environmental movement, meanwhile, gave civic groups another powerful tool against large-scale construction: legal challenges that could tie up projects for years, effectively killing them. 
Such was the case with Westway, the ambitious plan to reclaim five miles of Hudson River waterfront for housing, parks and a submerged highway, whose defeat at the hands of community and environmental advocates in the early 1980's marked the end of the city's last serious attempt at sweeping public planning. (A handful of projects, including Battery Park City and the Third Water Tunnel, begun in the late 1960's at the tail end of the postwar planning era, have taken so long to complete that they are still in construction.)
Though the shift to Ms. Jacobs's community-oriented approach offered a much-needed corrective, it came with a price. The new system made it far easier to reject than approve any large public project -- good, bad or mixed.
It was scarcely surprising, therefore, that in the last three decades New York added almost nothing to its existing inventory of major public projects, a state of affairs that many New Yorkers have judged perfectly acceptable -- despite warnings from groups like the Regional Plan Association that without the will or capacity to carry out major new initiatives, New York may well squander its status as a global city. 
Even so, given its extraordinary heritage of earlier projects, New York seemed able to survive and even thrive without developing a way to build new ones.
But on the morning of Sept. 11, the choice was taken out of the city's hands. 
One way or another, something will have to replace the enormous office, retail and transportation complex represented by the World Trade Center. That new development, whatever its ultimate mix of uses, will by its very nature involve the large-scale public planning that New York once carried out almost routinely. It is no wonder that the effort to get up to speed should be marked by an almost audible grinding of gears.
Yet if there is reason for concern, there is also reason for optimism. In the last few years, as the pendulum has begun to swing back, many planners feel the time has come to attempt a synthesis of the city's older tradition of daring and ambitious public works, and the sense of urbanity and human scale Ms. Jacobs insisted on.
Indeed, a prototype of such a synthesis was suggested by the city's imaginative physical plan for the 2012 Olympics, acknowledged last week by the United States Olympic Committee as a key factor in New York's selection as one of the two finalist cities. 
This proposal was devised by the urban planner Alexander Garvin, who is now the urban design director for the redevelopment effort in Lower Manhattan. If New York can find a way to reconcile its two vastly different planning traditions -- a significant feat in its own right -- the city may again dazzle the world by remaking itself in new and exciting ways.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Landfill from excavations for the World Trade Center was transformed into a beach, then Battery Park City. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (86%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); STATE PARKS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); AIRPORTS (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); HIJACKING (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); AIRLINES (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (52%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SANDERS, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



32 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Where Hands Still Labor

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
 IN this high-tech age of bioengineering, supercomputers, space shuttles and globalized financial markets, the men and women with hands and muscles are still there, laying bricks, sweeping cafeteria floors, making hotel beds. They are the army of manual workers doing the unheralded, largely forgotten jobs that also make the nation go. 
They hammer the nails, trim the meat, clean the sidewalks. There are millions of them, including 327,000 hairdressers, 2 million janitors, 265,000 file clerks, 130,000 messengers, 948,000 housekeepers, 109,000 brick masons, 24,000 hand sewers and 148,000 meat and fish trimmers. In recent years immigrants, men and women from Asia, Africa and Latin America, have filled many of these manual jobs, especially the low-end, lowest-paying positions. "Manual labor is more with us than many people think," said Kate Bronfenbrenner, a professor of labor relations at Cornell. "We will always need people to clean our streets, empty our bedpans and build our buildings. Computers can't do the most fundamental jobs at the core of our economy. There are a lot of dirty jobs, jobs requiring hard physical work, that someone's going to have to do." STEVEN GREENHOUSE

GRAPHIC: Photos: A maintenance worker, Mike Healy, applies paint to a municipal pool in Montpelier, Vt.; Marie Brown working at a Tulsa fishing reel plant.; Howard Metzzger tends an Asbury, N.J., trout farm.; Bricklayers spruce up Ripley, W. Va. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL STAFF (77%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (72%) LABOR 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; HEALY, MIKE; METZZGER, HOWARD; BROWN, MARIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



33 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Terrorism's Toll On the F.B.I.

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
OVER the years, F.B.I. directors have shifted resources to confront the scourge at hand. In the 1970's, Clarence M. Kelley veered away from the fight against Communism and took on organized crime. A decade later, William H. Webster put the emphasis on counterintelligence. William S. Sessions ended his tumultuous tenure with a push against violent crime.
 But when F.B.I. Director Robert S. Mueller III recently announced that the bureau would double his counterterrorism staff, in part by transferring personnel from other areas, the professional group that represents most agents voiced fears that traditional crime-solving would suffer. "Please give us back those bodies," said Nancy L. Savage, president of the F.B.I. Agents Association, which represents about 70 percent of agents. 
 At the same time, criminal justice experts raised concerns that the Federal Bureau of Investigation would become a domestic spy agency authorized to snoop into citizens' affairs even when there is no evidence of illegal activity. That could plunge the bureau back into an era of blackmail and intimidation associated with another director, J. Edgar Hoover, they said.
"Spying on people in order to prevent them from doing undefined harm is what an intelligence agency does," said Philip B. Heymann, a former deputy attorney general in the Clinton administration. "To create an agency that will monitor Americans in no way connected with a foreign government or party, that's a little worrisome."
Taken together, the fears underscore the difficulties confronting Mr. Mueller as he seeks to reshape and reorient a conservative, catch-the-crooks institution to confront an often invisible adversary that has proven its ability to move effectively within United States borders. And those difficulties seem to be mounting after the recent announcement that Dale L. Watson, the F.B.I.'s counterterrorism chief, will retire. No replacement has been named.
The concern about resources is not idle. Even as its duties multiply, the F.B.I. remains a small agency, and it was already stretched thin before Sept. 11.
The proposed shift toward counterterrorism comes at a time when major crime incidents are increasing. According to preliminary F.B.I. data released in June, the nation's crime index -- which measures murder, rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, larceny and motor vehicle theft -- rose by 2 percent last year. Setting aside the data from Sept. 11, which skew the overall results, the F.B.I. reported the largest jumps in murder (3.1 percent), robbery (3.9 percent) and motor vehicle theft (5.9 percent), crimes routinely involving the F.B.I.
Now, the director plans to transfer 518 of its 11,500 agents permanently from traditional crime-fighting duties to the battle against terrorism. This has left some critics wondering whether the bureau is forsaking its role in the drug war and the struggle against violent and white-collar crime. "You've still got a crime problem," Ms. Savage said. "Who's going to address it?" 
In testimony to Congress in June, Mr. Mueller proposed transferring 400 agents from drug investigations, 59 agents from white-collar crimes and another 59 agents from violent crimes. Counternarcotics would thus bear the brunt of the shift. He ordered agents to re-evaluate their involvement in drug cases and, "where possible, and without jeopardizing current investigations, reduce F.B.I. resources."
Virtually no one argues with the need for the bureau to reorganize around the terrorist threat and to bolster disciplines in which the bureau acknowledges it is deficient, like foiling Internet attacks. But F.B.I. experts question whether the bureau should be cannibalizing itself at a time when its federal responsibilities are already so vast and diverse: enforcing 300 federal laws, conducting background checks on cabinet and Supreme Court nominees, training local police and running forensic laboratories.
Ronald Kessler, who has written a history of the bureau, says the F.B.I. should double in size. Now, he notes, the nation's foremost federal crime agency is dwarfed in manpower by the New York City Police Department, which counts about 40,000 officers. Drawing down on existing F.B.I. resources is "a very narrow way of thinking about its potential," he said. "The bottom line is that instead of shifting agents around like this, they should be increasing the size of the F.B.I.," Mr. Kessler said. "Drugs kill more people than terrorists do." 
Dick Thornburgh, who served as attorney general under the first President Bush, recently complained that Congress had heaped too many responsibilities on the F.B.I. Lawmakers, responding to public pressure in recent years, have federalized crimes -- from carjackings to failure to pay child support -- and added to the bureau's burden. With the new emphasis on terrorism, he said, something has to give. Mr. Thornburgh called for handing nonterror crimes back to state and local control.
CONGRESS still must vote on Mr. Mueller's plan. But in practical terms, F.B.I. officials say, the reallocation has begun. Agents are allocating more and more of their workdays to following up on terrorism leads. 
Meanwhile, the Drug Enforcement Administration is girding for additional duties. Asa Hutchinson, the agency's director, has ordered a threat assessment to help determine how to reallocate parts of his $1.8 billion budget. He has 4,600 agents, foreign and domestic, which eclipses the new F.B.I. total of about 1,000 agents that will still be focusing on drugs.
"D.E.A. is going to pick up some of the slack," said Will Glaspy, a spokesman for the agency. "We'd like to work with Congress and the administration to gain additional resources to make sure we fill the holes that are left."
Some law enforcement experts worry more about losing agents who are pursuing white-collar criminals. Recent accounting scandals involving companies from Enron to WorldCom has underscored the need for specialists in detecting fraud, they say.
"The country is in as much danger on the white-collar crime front as it is on the terror front," said Mr. Heymann. "False accounting, false pushing of stocks can do as much damage to the economy as a plane flying into the World Trade Center." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); TRENDS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ROBBERY (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BURGLARY (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); EXTORTION (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); VEHICLE THEFT (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); ESPIONAGE (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); MURDER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



34 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Resisting the Siren Song of the All-American Muscle Cars

BYLINE:  By BRENT STAPLES 

 BODY:
A neighbor of mine owns one of those 60's-era muscle cars that cause middle-aged men like me to swoon. This cherry-red '66 Chevelle rides high on a racing suspension, propelled by one of the largest engines ever made. The jetlike roar rattles windows and sets off car alarms all along our quiet, tree-lined street.
 Though rare today, cars like this littered the streets when I was a high schooler in the mid-1960's. In fact, they defined what baby-boom men would come to expect from an automobile. In the atmosphere of the time, a car was not quite a car unless punching the accelerator resulted in screaming tires and the landscape blurring around you as the needle on the gas gauge dropped like a stone. 
 The chief executive of Ford Motors, William Ford Jr., is a baby boomer, too. He was clearly remembering hot little numbers from the 60's when he told a management meeting earlier this summer that the American love affair with the car was in danger of dying out. As proof, he noted that Americans no longer write songs about their favorite cars, as they once did.
The death of the California car song is not what you would call a civic tragedy. Those songs deified the largest, heaviest, dirtiest, least fuel-efficient engines in American history. In addition, the songs were primarily about drag racing, which burned off gasoline as though you'd lit a match to it and sometimes ended with the car and its driver wrapped around a tree. Romanticizing this period will not encourage speed-addicted Americans toward the fuel-efficient cars we so desperately need.
The quest for saner cars dates back to the early 1960's, a decade before the oil crisis forced the government to lean on Detroit to produce them. The expansion of the Interstate System fed suburban development, increasing dramatically the number of households that needed at least two cars. Dad drove to work in the two-ton living room on wheels, leaving mom with a smaller, less expensive car for the run to the supermarket.
These mid-sized cars typically got fewer miles per gallon than light trucks do today. The impulse to make them more economical ran afoul of the quest for an "exciting" car aimed at people in their teens and early 20's who would soon make up the majority of the car-buying public.
Enter a young Pontiac car designer named John DeLorean, who was part of the team that placed a very large engine into a modest, mid-sized Pontiac. This hyped-up Pontiac later became the G.T.O. It burned rubber and screamed when you stepped on the gas, and was by any measure too much engine with too little car.
Those of us who reached driving age in this period found ourselves in the equivalent of an arms race in which manufacturers competed to see who could build the fastest, loudest car. My neighbor's cherry-red Chevelle rolled off the General Motors line in my freshman year of high school, a time when, in my blue-collar hometown, the young men drag raced nightly and defined themselves utterly in terms of horsepower.
I could always tell when the school day was ending from the roar of the hot cars that circled the block ceaselessly until the intended passenger was picked up. Then the cars broke orbit and roared away. This scene was played out at a thousand high schools in a thousand towns all over the country. Gas was cheap, so mileage did not matter. The only important statistic was how long it took to accelerate from 0 to 60 m.p.h.
The battle between environmentalists and the car industry over fuel efficiency and pollution standards has its roots in this same statistic. Car manufacturers over the last 20 years have manipulated the law at every turn to increase car size and engine size, and to maintain the fast start. As a result of all this evasion, mileage improvements have been far short of what is possible and emissions reductions have been disappointing. 
American cars are still by and large faster and more muscular than they need to be, especially given that they spend much of their time sitting still in traffic. The challenge that faces us at the moment is how to wean people away from the brute-force hot-rod ethos that Detroit taught us to love in the 60's and coax them toward calmer cars that do not seem as though they are powered by rockets. This will require a change in what Detroit builds, as well as a change in the way it markets what it builds.
Mr. Ford deserves praise for promoting fuel efficiency and clean technology. But he harkened back to the loud and dirty muscle car days recently in a commercial that used footage from the car race movie "Bullitt," in which two brutish cars -- a Ford Mustang and a Dodge Charger -- stage a spectacular chase through the streets of San Francisco. Mr. Ford says in the commercial that he has been accused of having gasoline in his veins and that he could spend the rest of his days behind the wheel of a Mustang with a "throaty V-8" and a great sound system. I know where you're comin' from, Bill. But you can't be Mr. Green and Mr. Hot Wheels at the same time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEN (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HISTORY (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (67%); SONG WRITING (66%); DRIVING AGE (60%); SUBURBS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; NINETEEN HUNDRED SIXTIES; EDITORIALS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: STAPLES, BRENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



35 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: August 25-31; 
Forget About the Strike. Play Ball!

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass

 BODY:
Suddenly there's no strike.
 Five times before in the tortured history of baseball's labor negotiations players said they were going to strike -- and, by golly, they struck. But today they are playing their games, and they will play them tomorrow and the rest of the month, and some players who are fortunate enough will play games in October, too. 
 "I don't know what this feels like," an official of the Major League Baseball Players Association said on Friday after a new labor agreement was announced. "I might get to like it." 
Players walked out in 1994 and stayed out into the 1995 season. They struck for two days in 1985 and 50 days in 1981. Earlier in the game's labor history players struck: during the last week of spring training in 1980 and the end of spring training and beginning of the season in 1972. 
The focal point of the talks was the twin economic issues of revenue sharing and a luxury tax on payrolls. Over the four years of the agreement, $988 million will be transferred from richer clubs to poorer clubs. The tax will be assessed on portions of payrolls over a designated threshold.
Why didn't the players strike? They always say -- and they mean it -- that they would rather negotiate a peaceful agreement with the owners. Tom Glavine, the brilliant Atlanta Braves pitcher, who is the National League player representative, reiterated that position Friday.
Why was a deal possible this time when it never seemed to be in the past without a walkout?
The owners, said Richard Moss, former general counsel of the players' union, "made no demand to eliminate salary arbitration, no demand for a salary cap, no demand to eliminate free agency by adding requirements."
Said Commissioner Bud Selig: "The deal is sensitive to the concerns that I've raised and others have raised over the years." Murray Chass

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bud Selig weighing in on baseball's new labor contract. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); ATHLETES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); LAWYERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); ATLANTA BRAVES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (67%) GEORGIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



36 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
Millionaires on the Wane

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer 

 BODY:
The number of millionaire households in the United States declined 11 percent last year. Those that remained were less confident about their financial positions and therefore more conservative in their approach to investing, according to a recent survey. 
 "The decline in the equity markets finally caught up with this group of investors," said David Thompson, director of affluent-market research at NFO Financial Services, a division of the NFO WorldGroup, which conducted the survey. "In the early stages of the current bear market, from midyear 2000 to midyear 2001, the number of millionaires basically stayed the same largely due to the strength of their diverse portfolios." 
 But in the 12 months ended in June, the number of millionaire households fell to 3.3 million, from 3.7 million, Mr. Thompson said. 
He said that most people surveyed showed a "startling year-to-year decline" in confidence about their own finances and the economy over the next six months. Nearly two-thirds said they had become more conservative and had become increasingly concerned about preserving wealth rather than increasing it.
The study estimated that households with net worths of $500,000 to $1 million declined only 1 percent from the 3.6 million in 2001. The survey was based on a national sampling of 1,500 households with a net worth of at least $500,000, excluding their principal residence.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (95%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%) MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES 

COMPANY: TNS NORTH AMERICA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



37 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 51 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
SinkingMoney Market Rates

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer 

 BODY:
Money market interest rates have been low for months. Last week, they dropped below 1.25 percent for the first time. 
 The average seven-day simple yields on taxable funds fell to 1.24 percent for the week ended Tuesday from 1.26 percent a week earlier, according to iMoneyNet Inc. of Westborough, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%) BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST RATES; MONEY MARKET FUNDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



38 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Fast Bucks, and Fraud Perils

BYLINE:  By Vivian Marino 

 BODY:
 With the economy and stock market shaky, more people may be looking at less traditional ways to make money. 
But all too often, says the chief postal inspector, Lee Heath, they may find unscrupulous people looking to bilk them of their savings. The United States Postal Inspection Service began a campaign last week to alert the public, specifically the elderly, to the growing danger of fraud. Swindlers may contact people by telephone or e-mail and trick them into sending some sort of payment by mail. The postal agency said it responded to 66,000 mail fraud complaints in 2001. So far this year, there have already been about 68,000. Vivian Marino

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); INSPECTIONS (87%) FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; AGED; MAIL FRAUDS 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL INSPECTION SERVICE (58%) POSTAL SERVICE 

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



39 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
A Child Care Solution: Help From Overseas

BYLINE:  By JULIA MEURLING 

 BODY:
As the school year begins, many families are making room in their homes for arriving au pairs, who provide 12 months of child care in exchange for the chance to live and study in the United States. Last year, 11,855 au pairs aged 18 and 26 were placed in families by six federally approved agencies. About the same number are expected this year. 
 Until recently, programs were limited to au pairs from Western Europe, but they now draw a rapidly growing number of participants from Eastern Europe, South America, Asia and Australia. So far this year, the InterExchange agency has placed more au pairs from Eastern European countries like Poland and Slovakia than from Western Europe. JULIA MEURLING

AU PAIRS EMPLOYED IN THE UNITED STATES

Graph shows the number of people from Au Pairs employed in the United States since 1997.

AVERAGE COST OF PROGRAM TO HOST FAMILY
Total cost: $12,977*

Au pair stipend: 7,092
Program fee: $5,110
Tuition contribution: 500
Application fee: $275

RESTAURANT SALES
Year-over-year change, weekly

Graph shows the year-over-year change in restaurant sales since March 2002.

NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS
Year-over-year change, weekly

Graph shows the year-over-year change in new mortgage applications since March 2002.

FOOD COSTS
Change in consumer price index

Graph shows the change in consumer price index of food costs since August 2001.

PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGS
Totals in thousands, weekly

Graph shows the number of personal bankruptcy filings since March 2002.

ONLINE SALES
Dollars in billions, weekly

Graph shows the number of online sales since March 2002.

HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATES
Four-week moving average, daily

Graph shows the hotel occupancy rates for New York, Chicago and Los Angeles since March 2002.

Through Aug. 28

(Sources: U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs au pair employment ; agencies data au pair costs ; NPDFoodworld restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics food costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (87%); RESTAURANTS (87%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); STATISTICS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (67%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) CHILD CARE; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: MEURLING, JULIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); ASIA (71%) EUROPE, EAST

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



40 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
Baseball Could Learn a Few Things From Australia

BYLINE:  By JUSTIN WOLFERS and ANDREW LEIGH; Justin Wolfers is an assistant professor of economics at Stanford Business School. Andrew Leigh is a fellow with the Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy at Harvard. Both are expatriate Australians.

 BODY:
With the threatened baseball strike averted in the bottom of the ninth, fans are relieved but somewhat disillusioned with the national pastime. Is the fierce competition that we enjoy in the ballpark likely to always spill over to negotiations over pay? Or is it simply a reflection of players paying more attention to dollars than sense? 
 A major sports scandal in Australia last week provides an interesting benchmark against which to judge the motivations of American baseball players. 
 Rugby league fans Down Under also had a gut-wrenching week, following revelations that the Sydney-based Bulldogs, a team picked by many to win this year's rugby league championship, had systematically violated the salary cap. The team had funneled player payments through third-party entities and club boosters. It emerged that the club spent nearly a fifth more on player payments than the system allows. 
The players appear to know nothing about these violations, and there is no suggestion of impropriety beyond the team's management. Yet "Doggiegate," as the Australians are calling it, has resulted in the Bulldogs' being stripped of any credit for their successful season to date, and they have been relegated to the bottom of the league. With the finals series only two weeks away, this has also robbed the Bulldogs of any chance of postseason glory. 
The reaction of Australia's rugby league players stands in stark contrast to the position adopted by Major League Baseball players. Bulldogs players, led by their captain, Steve Price, pleaded to take a pay cut to comply with the salary cap, in the hope that it offers them a chance to compete in the postseason.
"It's a shock to us like it is to everybody else," Price said on Aug. 21, claiming ignorance of the player-pay scandal. "Players will take pay cuts if we have to."
The 21-year-old Mark O'Meley agreed. "I just love footy," he said. "I'd be devastated not to play in the finals." He added, "I'd be prepared to take a pay cut to play in the finals."
By contrast, the threatened baseball strike was intended by the players union to maximize only their bargaining power. By waiting until the pennant races and ultimately the World Series were on the line, the players managed to boost their bargaining power at the possible expense of the postseason.
In effect, baseball's stars bet that their fans, who ultimately provide the owners with their profits, care more about the postseason than they do. Having forced the abandonment of the 1994 World Series, we all knew this was no empty threat. And the fact that the owners worked furiously to resolve this dispute by Friday shows that they also understood this.
The response from sports fans in Australia and the United States reveals the very different effects that the two scandals -- player overpayments and the threatened strike -- have had on supporters of the two sports. Bulldogs fans are clearly shocked at the way in which the team's management behaved, but it says something about the innate sense of fair play among Australians that an online poll at the club's Web site found that nearly half of Bulldogs fans surveyed believed that the punishment meted out to the club was fair.
By contrast, baseball's work stoppages seem to have wearied American baseball fans, and although there was a small anti-stoppage protest movement, fans seem resigned to the possibility of further labor strife, and regarded its resolution as an unexpected surprise. While the overpayment scandal led the Bulldogs board to resign en masse, both Bud Selig and Donald Fehr, the two main protagonists from the 1994 baseball strike, continue to lead their respective organizations.
The current Australian scandal also raises some very practical issues for baseball's negotiators.
A primary stumbling block in the baseball negotiations has been the issue of the so-called luxury tax. This tax is in many respects similar to the rugby league salary cap, except that rather than simply banning spending above a certain level, these higher payments are to be taxed so that rich clubs can buy less talent for their dollar.
The overpayment scandal in Australia points to the likelihood of similar infractions in baseball's future. The tough question for those who propose to regulate payments to baseball players is: How would a luxury tax in baseball be enforced? Will Bud Selig be willing to go as far as Australian rugby league officials and ban transgressors from the postseason? Would the players union support his decision, or could enforcing the rules potentially lead to more labor strife?
Even in its darkest hour, Australian rugby league players are showing the sort of sporting passion that American baseball fans yearn for. As Bulldogs Coach Steve Folkes said of his team: "They want to play football. It's not about money. It's about success."
For all its "Field of Dreams" mythology, the mighty dollar remains central to much of modern baseball.
Few have echoed the recent sentiment of one sportsman: "The money, I can deal without. Baseball, I can't." The player? Baseball's $252 million dollar man, Alex Rodriguez.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Sydney-based Bulldogs pleaded to take a pay cut after revelations that the team had violated the salary cap. (Mark Nolan/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RUGBY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (85%); LABOR UNIONS (78%) BASEBALL; RUGBY (GAME); LABOR; FINANCES; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

PERSON: WOLFERS, JUSTIN; LEIGH, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (91%) AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



41 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rebuked: Slapping the Hand That Fed Free Trade 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
The United States has always had a love-hate attitude toward free trade, but rarely has the ambivalence been greater than now.
 Having capitulated to demands by steelmakers for steep new tariffs in March, the Bush administration is now rushing to soothe trading partners and steel-consuming companies by excluding hundreds of imported products from the tariffs. 
 Having capitulated to demands from farmers for more than $100 billion in subsidies, the administration is now advocating a plan that would drastically reduce subsidies and farm tariffs around the world.
But perhaps the most startling twist in a tangled relationship came on Friday, when the World Trade Organization in Geneva ruled that the European Union can impose up to $4 billion in penalties on the United States because its tax break for exporters amounts to an illegal subsidy under international law. 
It was by far the biggest trade penalty ever approved, a rebuke that was all the more stinging because it was aimed at a country that routinely lectures the rest of the world on the need to open its markets.
What made the verdict even more striking was that it came from an institution that would not exist if the United States had not pushed relentlessly for its creation.
Conservative critics charged that the panel had eroded American sovereignty and had stepped far outside its authority.
"The whole purpose of the W.T.O. was to lead to the reduction of trade barriers," said Daniel Mitchell, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think-tank in Washington. "For the W.T.O. to start commenting on whether U.S. tax policy is acceptable is a huge expansion of its authority. You have to ask, where does it stop?"
In truth, however, there is little doubt that the international panel was well within its rights. The American negotiators who hammered out the treaty that created the World Trade Organization wanted to make sure that it had the authority to attack all kinds of veiled protectionism: disguised government subsidies, health rules serving only as import barriers, trade preferences for favored countries.
The mantra for American leaders was to create a "rules based" system that would be clear, binding and rigorously adjudicated by what amounted to an international court.
"I remember that we were criticized by the Europeans for having an overly legalistic approach," said Thomas Niles, who was American ambassador to the European Union from 1989 to 1991. "But we were interested in a dispute settlement system where if you won a case you got what you were after."
The United States has gotten what it wanted more than once. In 1997, the W.T.O. vindicated the United States by striking down Europe's ban on beef from cattle injected with growth hormones.
It was an explosive decision for Europe, because the ban reflected a widespread mistrust of artificial hormones. But the W.T.O. ruled that the Europeans had not produced any evidence of health hazards from the beef, and that the ban was therefore an illegal trade barrier.
One of the main reasons President Bush abandoned his free-market principles on both farm subsidies and steel tariffs was that he needed votes in Congress to win approval of trade promotion authority, which allows the administration to negotiate trade deals and submit them to Congress for a simple yes or no vote.
Even then, the House passed the bill by a mere three votes in July.
"There is not a lot of enthusiasm in the United States for trade liberalization," said Gary Hufbauer, a trade expert at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. Mr. Hufbauer, though critical of both the steel tariffs and the new farm subsidies, said President Bush might have made a wise compromise because the narrowly approved trade bill could ultimately open up more trade than the protectionist moves close down.
But what about the immediate future? Is the United States at the mercy of a body it helped create?
At least in part, yes. Some experts argue that the United States needs to learn that many of its own laws and practices fall well short of being a gold standard for openness. 
The World Trade Organization has ruled against the United States in almost every case where it has tried to impose "antidumping" tariffs on steel that was allegedly imported at below its real cost.
The decision this week on taxes was more obscure but involved much bigger money. The international treaties underlying the trade organization prohibit countries from offering tax breaks exclusively to exporters, because that amounts to a government subsidy for exports. 
Both the administration and Congress are now feverishly trying to rewrite the law so they can preserve the tax break without violating international law. But Congress has already made one attempt that the trade group rejected as inadequate.
Though humbling, this may be a necessary learning process.
Americans have become increasingly worried that free trade deals could jeopardize their jobs. But most American trade experts say it would be a mistake to turn away from the new system, because the United States gains more than it loses from free trade.
Even if the United States does lose some big legal disputes, American companies benefit from reliable and enforceable trade rules.
"The United States has won many more cases than it has lost," said Mickey Kantor, who was the United States trade representative from 1993 to 1996 and negotiated the treaty that created the trade organization. "We are much better off with a rules-based trading system, and the W.T.O. has frankly worked very well." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); VERDICTS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); BEEF (73%); AGRICULTURE (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); MEATS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (60%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); FINES (PENALTIES); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



42 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: On Ship of Condos, Life's an Endless Cruise 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

DATELINE: ABOARD THE WORLD, St. John's, Newfoundland, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Life, they say, is a journey. But who would think to take it on a cruise ship?
 Billed by its Norwegian owners as the world's first and only residence at sea, The World, a 12-deck, 43,000-ton, 644-foot passenger ship, arrived here today -- a floating condominium with apartments, not cabins, ranging in price from more than $2 million to more than $7 million. 
 St. John's is one of 140 ports in 40 countries that the vessel is to visit in its inaugural year, the start of a perpetual circumnavigation of the globe -- a home away from home away from home. 
The World was launched in March, sailing from Oslo, and is scheduled to arrive in New York on Thursday.
Residents are on the average in their middle 50's, and generally self-made, first-generation wealthy. The World is a concept that Howard Hughes would have loved: exile reinvented, a life in comfortable circumstances that cosset but also constantly change, leaving a wake but never a trail. More than a few on board could have been Mr. Hugheses of another generation -- their determined isolation as deep as the mid-Atlantic.
"People that take a risk like this, on a new concept, they're the kind of people I generally like anyway," said Richard Reed, 60, an entrepreneur who has run martial arts schools and a software company selling billing services to health clubs. "I'm not going to sit around and wait for this concept to work itself out -- test a few boats -- there's an urgency factor to it, and it's called age."
The World's accommodations consist of 110 two- to six-bedroom condominium apartments with kitchens, decorated by carriage-trade designers like Nina Campbell of London and Juan Pablo Molyneux of New York. 
There are standard cruise ship amenities like restaurants, a casino and a spa. But there is also a corner store, Fredy's Deli, which sells Rice Krispies, oyster sauce, matzo balls and cake mixes.
Condominium maintenance fees are in the hundreds of thousands of dollars a year, but residents must scrub their own ovens, or pay extra to have them cleaned. The crystal table lamps are bolted to end tables, by regulation. Fireplaces and candles? Forget it. No pets either. 
"We have to get along," said Geoffrey Thompson, 59, a retired advertising executive from Monterey, Calif., when asked about his neighbors on The World. "We share the same backyard." His backyard tilted from side to side in the horizon of his two-bedroom apartment's windows as he spoke, seated on a sedan-sized sofa. "There's more type A personalities on board per capita than anywhere else in the world," Mr. Thompson said. "No passive bones in the body." 
The World was conceived in 1997 by Knut Kloster Jr., a Norwegian cruise ship magnate. The project was the butt of many jokes, even as The World proceeded into construction. Its size was scaled back at the boatyard, because of financing difficulties and concerns that it could not enter the smaller, more exclusive ports it was promising to prospective residents. The World, owned by ResidenSea Ltd., is registered in the Bahamas.
Eighty percent of the apartments, which have 50 year leaseholds -- the ship's expected life span -- have been sold. Plans for a sister ship have been put on hold until The World has sold completely.
Residents can board in any port and are asked, after an extended absence, to give 24-hours' notice. In fairer seas in more attractive locales, the ship expects an average of 340 people in residence, served by its crew of 320. Homeowners are at present 40 percent American, 40 percent European and 20 percent from South Africa, Australia and elsewhere. The ship also books nonresident passengers in its unsold apartments and 88 guest suites.
The apartments on The World are not being sold as investments, because of their expiring leaseholds.
"The clock started ticking the day the ship was delivered," said Jessica Estrada, the on-board sales manager. "It's a depreciating asset. It's a lifestyle, not a way to make money."
Sailing from Iceland to Newfoundland this week, a cold, lonely jog on The World's maiden Atlantic crossing, the oceans were bucking and the 100 passengers, including 15 residents, were the hard-core few. 
Mr. Reed a silver-blond man who said he earned a black belt in martial arts in Korea with Chuck Norris, the action-movie star, was seated in his living room, which he had customized heavily to his own tastes. There was a black leather Harley-Davidson edition of Monopoly on the Chinese-style lacquered coffee table, an electronic Yamaha piano, a Russian impressionist oil painting of a bar scene and a flat-screen wall clock that displayed the earth and its time zones.
"On this side of this line is Wednesday and on the other side is Thursday," Mr. Reed said, pointing to the lit, blue panel. "You're on the move all the time and it's kind of hard to keep track of that."
In fact, several residents on board had trouble identifying the day. 
Mr. Reed stows a telescope in his powder room. "You can't see the stars from land anymore," he said.
Residents are not permitted to claim The World as their primary residence, and must provide an address on land to ResidenSea when purchasing, which a company spokesman cited as proof that the ship is not being used as a tax haven.
Plans for security were not tightened after Sept. 11, though metal scanners are present for embarkation. ResidenSea officials said they would not sell to anyone with a criminal record. The company pays a security concern to perform international credit and criminal background checks on each condominium applicant.
Still, many residents, as if playing a game scheduled by the ship's "enrichment" director, are trying to figure out who among them might be on the lam, and why.
"Everybody's learning everybody's else's bio," Mr. Thompson said. "If the knowledge about somebody only goes back a few years, you kind of go, 'O.K., so where were they before that?' "
Mr. Reed also lives in a gated community, in Scottsdale, Ariz. He said that he never knew any of his neighbors there, a situation far different from life on The World.
"It's 600 by 100 feet -- you're going to run into them," he said. 
Residents like Judy Kreiss, 60, and her husband, Norman Kreiss, 75, say they like the close-quarters' style of life.
"People who come to this life -- married couples -- really have to care about each other," said Mrs. Kreiss, who has been married for 10 years. The longest they have been aboard ship is two months. A framed photograph of one of their five dogs, Shorty, a terrier, sat on a shelf next to them. Shorty lives in San Diego. 
"This isn't a life for people who aren't getting along, and so your neighbors are all people who have good marriages," Mrs. Kreiss said. "It's nice to have that reinforced all the time."
Mr. Thompson's wife, Karyn Planett, a travel writer, works with the ship's residents' committee. She said it was like a co-op board, but with many issues unique to a ship.
The group, which meets monthly, works with the company on the ship's itinerary, for example. Members have insisted on smaller, more interesting ports of call -- at Madagascar and in Londonderry, Ireland -- than short-term paying guests might prefer. But the company's bottom line is keeping the cabins full.
"They are owners of their apartments," said Rene Peter, the general manager on ship. "They don't run the company. They know as well what they bought into -- a certain space on the ship. The rest is all public space." 
The World's developers say it is the precursor of what could become a new niche in the travel industry and in vacation-home real estate. Other residence ship projects that have been reported include the America World City, proposed by the World City Corporation with investors that include Westin Hotels and Resorts, and Freedom Ship, the barge-like craft proposed by Freedom Ship International, which anticipates 40,000 residents living on a 25-story ship. The Freedom Ship filed its business plan with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the spring. If the ship is approved and built as planned, it will be an $11 billion home with an airport, parks, a hospital, schools and factories. 
With the cruise ship industry trying to recover from Sept. 11 and an industry recession generated late in the 1990's by overbuilding, the pressure to keep The World booked to capacity is strong. ResidenSea, based in Miami, is discounting its passenger fares and is aggressively marketing its empty apartments as rentals, from $1,800 to $5,460 a night.
Ms. Planett said that the residents were realists who understood The World's marketing challenges.
"The company has to be on a sound financial footing or we all suffer," she said. "So we know the reality of their need to fill the guest suites and to have itineraries that are attractive to sell. We like a traveler who buys into the concept, to see the world in a more leisurely pace than the standard cruise ship passenger."
She raised an obvious point, the spray flying past her $3 million apartment as it sailed below the southern tip of Greenland.
"If we're not happy, it's not going to work for anybody," she said. "But how to boycott? Do we do a rent strike? Rent strike to us means we'd be tied up in -- I don't know where. You pick a port."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Geoffrey Thompson, and his wife, Karyn Planett, top, in their $3 million condominium yesterday aboard The World as it was docked in St. John's, Newfoundland. The vessel has all the standard cruise ship amenities as well as a deli, staffed by Hermy Lubugan, left, and Lalaine Lebitania. (Photographs by Keith Gosse for The New York Times)(pg. 23); Condominiums cost as much as $7 million on The World, where there is real grass on the putting green. (Keith Gosse for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); RESTAURANTS (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (64%); MARTIAL ARTS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; WORLD, THE (SHIP); HOUSING 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%)

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (90%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



43 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Rush to Fill Void in Menopause-Drug Market 

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
In the eight weeks since the fed eral government announced that it had halted a study of a popular hormone therapy used by postmenopausal women, doctors say they have been deluged by an ever-growing tide of promotional material for anything and everything that could substitute for Prempro, the drug used in the study. 
 The alternatives run the gamut: prescription drugs that consist of slightly different hormone formulations, nutritional supplements made of herbs and vitamins, soy products said to be natural sources of estrogen, and even what might be termed menopause accessories, such as one company's "cooling comfort towelettes" to wipe the sweat from hot flashes. 
 But many doctors and scientists say they are alarmed by the profusion of Prempro substitutes. The trouble, they say, is that these drugs and supplements have been studied less than Prempro has. Their benefits and risks are simply unknown. 
That is especially true for nutritional supplements. Their advertising receives far less government scrutiny than claims for prescription drugs, which the Food and Drug Administration regulates closely. 
They are also sold without a doctor's guidance. "Everything you've ever heard of is being marketed," said Dr. Wulf Utian, the executive director of the North American Menopause Society, "and it's being marketed to a confused and vulnerable population." 
Prempro, a combination of estrogens and progestin made by Wyeth, has long dominated the menopause market. Until this summer it was used by six million American women, many of whom assumed they would be taking it for a lifetime to protect against some effects of aging, like brittle bones.
But when the federal study, the Women's Health Initiative, found that Prempro carried slight risks (of heart attack, stroke and breast cancer) that outweighed its benefits (a slightly lower risk of colon cancer and hip fracture), the part of the study in which women were taking Prempro was ended. A study in which women take estrogen alone continues. A Wyeth spokesman, Doug Petkus, said sales of Prempro had declined 25 to 30 percent.
Many companies appear to have rushed into the opening. "The Women's Health Initiative Study wasn't out of my fingers before the mailings started coming in," said Dr. Nanette Santoro, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. "It's what you expect in a capitalist economy. You have people with products to sell."
Prempro, like other estrogen replacements, is clearly effective against some symptoms of menopause, including hot flashes and vaginal dryness. Dr. Isaac Schiff, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at the Massachusetts General Hospital, said the government's findings touched off "a mild to severe panic" and left some women desperate for alternatives.
"Now we are seeing the fallout," Dr. Schiff said. "They are saying, 'The hot flashes are killing me,' or 'I don't feel well.' " Some of his patients tell him they have lost energy or a sense of well-being. 
"They are trying to go back on estrogen," Dr. Schiff said. But, he added, "They do not want to go on Prempro."
While the level of marketing for alternative drugs and supplements is impossible to quantify in the short time since the findings about Prempro were reported, Dr. Schiff and others say they have been bombarded with fliers, e-mail promotions and visits from drug salespeople. A similar barrage is going out to patients, in the form of advertisements in newspapers and magazines, in the mail and on the Web.
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecolgists has warned its members that it is not necessarily safe to switch women from Prempro to other prescription hormones, adding, "Caution is warranted for different preparations, and their safety should not be assumed in the absence of conclusive data."
But prescription hormones are only part of the picture. Doctors say they are particularly concerned about the promotion of nutritional supplements.
The college of obstetricians, for example, cautions, "The number and sophistication of most studies on alternative therapies, including botanicals, do not meet the current standards of evidence-based recommendations." It adds that " 'natural' does not mean safe or effective," and that "potentially dangerous or lethal drug-herb interactions can occur."
The National Institutes of Health's National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine also cautions women on its Web site, http://nccam.nih.gov/health/alerts/menopause/, about the claims being made for vitamins, herbs and products like soy that contain plant estrogens.
"At this time, there is not enough scientific evidence to determine whether these therapies are beneficial," the Web site says. "In addition, we do not have sufficient information to show whether these therapies are as safe or safer than conventional drugs being used for menopausal symptoms, osteoporosis or heart disease."
Makers of the supplements assert that they are safe and effective. Gayle Engles, education director for the Botanical Council, a nonprofit group that disseminates information on herbal medicines, says that many of the products have been in use for hundreds of years and that some have been tested in scientific studies. 
Still, Dr. Utian, of the menopause society, said that too many companies were sending a message he paraphrased this way: "The Women's Health Initiative has shown the other stuff is garbage, but we have the answer." 
He cited an e-mail promotion with the headline: "Women Search for a Safe Alternative to Hormonal Replacement Therapy. Scientific Research Already Has the Answer." The company, SuperNutrition, says its vitamin and herb combination called Menopause Multiple Blend prevents hot flashes, strengthens bone, protects against heart disease, prevents memory problems and, best of all, is "safe and natural."
Makers of other products also advertise benefits that groups like the National Institutes of Health say are not demonstrated.
Whole World Botanicals advertises a Peruvian herb, maca, asserting that it can relieve symptoms of menopause and even help with "premenstrual syndrome" in younger women. The herb, its maker claims, "contains no plant hormones, unlike soy/genistein and black cohosh."
Zoe Foods says its soy cereals and bars "have helped thousands of women overcome their menopausal symptoms." Another company, SoyToy, claims its soy juicer makes milk from soybeans in 25 minutes. Soy, it says, alleviates symptoms of menopause, increases bone mass and decreases the risk of heart disease.
GlaxoSmithKline, the large drug company best known for its prescription drugs, touts the benefits of another diet supplement, black cohosh, which it markets as Remifemin. The package states that Remifemin is "drug free" and "estrogen free" and that it is good for hot flashes, night sweats, mood swings, irritability and related occasional sleeplessness. A footnote informs consumers, "These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration."
Other companies offer custom blends of actual estrogens and progestins. Individual states, rather than the F.D.A., normally regulate these products as they regulate pharmacies. 
Dr. Schiff, at Massachusetts General, pointed to a flier from one such company, the Women's International Pharmacy, advertising "bio-identical hormones" and "customized prescriptions" and claiming that its product is safer than hormones sold by drug companies. "They have no evidence for that," Dr. Schiff said. 
Makers of prescription estrogens and progestins take a different tack, he said. Because those drugs are regulated by the F.D.A., they may not make unproven claims. 
"I have been bombarded with very subtle ads," Dr. Schiff said. "They can't say their product is safer because they don't have the evidence." Instead, he said, they try an indirect approach: " 'We make product ABC and we don't make the product that was involved in the Women's Health Initiative.' It is like having a bad relative and making sure you don't sit next to them. They are pushing themselves away from the table."
Dr. Marcia L. Stefanick of Stanford University, the principal investigator for the Women's Health Initiative, said some doctors were too quick to say that the risks of Prempro were specific to Prempro but not to other formulations of estrogens and progestins -- or that estrogens from plants were safe because they are "natural." 
The estrogens in Prempro, Dr. Stefanick said, "are as natural to the horse as the phytoestrogens are to the South American yam." As for soy, she asked, "If it is natural to a soy plant, does that make it natural to humans?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many postmenopausal women are looking for a substitute for Prempro, since a study found that it had slight risks that outweighed its benefits. (Tne New York Times)(pg. 25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENOPAUSE (96%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (92%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (92%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (92%); STEROIDS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); BOTANICAL SUPPLEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HERBAL MEDICINE (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); CANCER (78%); WOMEN (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); BONE FRACTURES (69%); STROKES (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BREAST CANCER (65%); HEART DISEASE (63%); COLORECTAL CANCER (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) MENOPAUSE; PREMPRO (DRUG); WOMEN; ESTROGEN; PROGESTIN; WOMEN'S HEALTH INITIATIVE; HORMONES; DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS AND HERBAL REMEDIES; VITAMINS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); SOYBEANS; HERBS 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN J SCHIFF JR (50%) KOLATA, GINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



44 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3594 words

HEADLINE: Season Is Salvaged, but Baseball Still Has Rich Facing the Poor 

BYLINE:  This article was reported by David Leonhardt, Murray Chass, Steven Greenhouse and Richard Sandomir and written by Mr. Leonhardt. 

 BODY:
The schedule said that Major League Baseball would play 15 games today from Toronto to San Diego. History suggested that not a pitch would be thrown and that each big-league ballpark would sit as empty as it does in February.
 But baseball defied history. After haggling for months over complex economic formulas and cold cash, owners and players reached an agreement on Friday that both sides said would give the sport a new lease on the public's imagination. 
 By distributing revenue more equally among teams, the owners argued, the new contract would allow fans in once-passionate baseball towns like Minneapolis and Pittsburgh to believe again that their teams, too, could be consistent winners and contend for a championship. That faith has faded as teams like the Atlanta Braves and the New York Yankees used their wealth to build the best lineups money could buy. 
Whether the negotiators' haggling has solved baseball's problems, however, is far from clear. After all, consider what the contract does not change. The economic might of local television deals will still give some teams like the Yankees and Braves far more money than others.
There is also no guarantee that poorly run teams in small markets will not pocket the new subsidies they will receive from the richest teams, instead of investing in new players or in hanging onto their stars.
At the players' insistence, moreover, the major leagues agreed not to shut down any franchises for the next four years, leaving baseball to cope with the drag of two or three badly struggling teams, most notably the Montreal Expos.
"I think people will see a change in the tide and the direction the game is going in," said Kevin McClatchy, the chief executive and managing general partner of the Pittsburgh Pirates, a team that has endured its share of small-market woes. "But do you solve 30 years of problems with one agreement? No, you don't."
A Pirates fan, Steve Kokal of Plum Borough, Pa., expressed skepticism that the balance of power would shift and improve the fortunes of a team that is headed for a 10th straight losing season. "I don't think the agreement will change anything," he said. "The Yankees will always have too much money and will always pay top dollar for the best players. We get a good player and they're gone because we can't afford to keep them."
Still, McClatchy saw reason for optimism. "We have changed the landscape," he said. "The inequity of payrolls has grown dramatically over the years and I think you will see that change."
If nothing else, baseball is better off today than it was a week ago, simply because everybody knows that pitchers will be trying to get batters out for another two months, and, based on the new contract's length, for another four seasons.
In Chicago today, Wrigley Field will resemble a giant block party for the Midwest, as it does every time the Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals play there. On the West Coast, one of the best pennant races in years will continue with teams in Seattle, Oakland and Anaheim, Calif. Around Phoenix and New York, fans can continue hoping for a rematch of last year's thrilling World Series.
Negotiators made today's games possible by bargaining through the night Thursday and into late morning on Friday. Working primarily with two negotiators from each camp, they shuttled between their offices in Manhattan, exchanging proposals at one long session Thursday night, then two short 20-minute sessions at 4 a.m. and 6:30 a.m. Friday. The final push, which included Commissioner Bud Selig and the union head, Donald Fehr, came in a three-hour session Friday morning.
Still, the bitter relationship between Major League Baseball's owners and players, easily the worst among major sports, has left the business of baseball damaged. Just the prospect of a strike this season seems to have angered fans more than some actual work interruptions did in the past. As the strike deadline approached, fans displayed their frustration with harsh signs at games and complaints on talk radio; on Thursday night in Anaheim, in potentially the last game before a strike, spectators booed the players, threw back balls hit into the stands, and littered the field with debris.
Overall attendance has declined by 5.5 percent this season, and is on a pace to be at its lowest level since 1997. Television ratings for last year's World Series were about half what they were 20 years ago, a far worse decline than the Super Bowl has suffered over the same span.
Indeed, the sport's tenuous hold on many fans' loyalties seemed to have helped push owners and players to reach a new contract without enduring a work stoppage for the first time in 30 years.

The Negotiations
Respect Instead Of Bitterness
If the new labor agreement has in fact ended an era in Major League Baseball history, it is an era that began almost four decades ago. The bitterness that built up over that period left many people surprised, both by the relative calm leading to Friday's strike deadline and the timely resolution of the talks.
"This is a day that many believed would never happen," Selig said after the negotiations ended.
By avoiding a strike even after a strike date had been set, Selig added, "We were able to do what hasn't been done before."
With a few exceptions, both owners and players avoided harsh public criticism of each other. They also agreed fairly quickly to a modest plan for steroid testing that they say will alleviate one the game's biggest on-the-field problems. In the best case, observers say, the talks could be the start of a period in which baseball's owners promote the game by praising their players instead of scoring political points by criticizing them as greedy. 
"I have seen in recent weeks a real effort to reduce the level of rhetoric," said Neal Pilson, the former head of CBS Sports, who runs a consulting business. "This negotiation has been conducted at a much higher level of respect than the last one."
The strategy may seem obvious, given the interest that owners and players share in the game's prosperity. Since the mid-1960's, however, the enmity between players and owners has often overwhelmed everything else in the sport.
Complaining that pensions were too small, two star pitchers -- Jim Bunning, now a United States senator, and Robin Roberts -- began pushing to create a new, more effective union. In 1966, Marvin Miller, an economist with the steelworkers' union, signed on as the players union's executive director, and they slowly began to demand changes.
At first, the players made small requests, like asking for better pitchers' mounds in the Yankee Stadium bullpen and more clubhouse toilets in Cincinnati, said Charles Korr, the author of a recently published history of the players union. By 1972, however, after twice sweetening player pensions, the owners decided that the players did not have the courage to walk out and refused to give in a third time.
That marked the end of any semblance of labor peace. The players promptly showed their resolve, staging a 13-day strike. The owners capitulated, setting a pattern that would largely continue over seven more work interruptions during the next 22 years.
The most important change came in 1975, when an arbitrator gave the players the right to be free agents, who could sign with whichever team they wished when their contracts expired. Until then, baseball had operated with the so-called reserve clause, which bound players to a team unless they were traded, sold or released. That system's harshness, in the face of baseball's success, helped doom the game to labor relations far worse than in any other major sport, experts say. 
The arbitrator's decision set off an explosion in salaries that the owners have tried to restrain in every subsequent contract negotiation -- and that leaves some of them bitter even now.
"That was an outrageous decision," Bowie Kuhn, baseball's commissioner at the time, said in an interview last week.
Since then, the dynamic between the two sides has flipped, with the owners looking to each negotiation as a chance to change the system and roll back player salaries, the players fighting to keep things as they are. "The fans and press asked, 'What do the greedy players want?' " Miller said. "Then, as now, we didn't want more. We just wanted to keep the status quo."
By the mid-1980's the frustrated owners turned to a new tactic: they colluded to keep salaries low, and some of the game's star free agents went unsigned for months. Selig and the owners have consistently called the charges unfounded, but three arbitrators' rulings went against them, and in 1990 the owners agreed to pay the players $280 million as compensation.
Many labor experts say the collusion scandal has dominated the tenor of contract talks ever since. 
"Collusion is the biggest single factor in the recent history of baseball," said Fay Vincent, the former commissioner. "After collusion, Fehr would say, 'How can we trust people who tried to cheat us?' "
That is why Friday's televised settlement announcement seemed significant to many people who have followed the game for years. Fehr and Selig stood together before television cameras and alternated turns at the microphone. At one point, when Selig could not hear a reporter's question, a helpful Fehr whispered it in his ear.

Sharing Revenue
How to Spread The Wealth Around
Even as the labor mistrust grew, however, the game was thriving on the field in a way it never had before.
Attendance soared in the late 1970's and 1980's as free agency helped eliminate the dynasties of earlier eras and spread championships around the league.
During the six years starting in 1981, for instance, six of the American League East's seven teams won the division. The Kansas City Royals, now a prominent cellar dweller, won the 1985 World Series with a $11.8 million payroll, only 23 percent lower than Yankees' top-ranked $15.4 million payroll, said Doug Pappas, the head of the business committee of the Society for American Baseball Research, a fans' group.
More years than not, baseball set attendance records; by 1993, average attendance was 31,000 per game, about two and a half times the number during the 1950's.
But the roots of the game's economic problems were already in the ground -- thanks more to changes in the media business than within baseball itself.
In a deal that took effect in 1989, the MSG Network bought the rights to broadcast Yankees games for 12 years, paying the team a $50 million signing bonus and another $443.5 million through 2000. Nobody had seen anything like it before. 
The initial yearly payments were small, starting at $7.5 million, but they quickly ramped up, rising to $50.7 million in 2000. By last year, only four teams were making more on their local television contracts than the $29.1 million that the Yankees collected from MSG in 1991.
The Yankees have put their television money to better use than any other team, developing home-grown talent and winning four of the last six World Series. But their success, and that of Ted Turner -- who owned both the Atlanta Braves and the cable channel that broadcast Braves games -- spurred cable operators to buy some teams and pay huge sums to others. Fox, owned in part by the News Corporation, has led the way; not only does it own the Los Angeles Dodgers, but it has also nearly blanketed the country with regional Fox Sports Net channels.
The result of all this, according to sports executives, was a quick and sharp widening of the gap between baseball's haves and have-nots.
"That was the defining moment: the growth of regional cable," Neal Pilson said. "Regional cable became more valuable, grew their audiences and teams benefited from that increased flow of money."
The National Football League and the National Basketball Association rely primarily on national television contracts for their media revenue; in turn, those leagues split the money equally between the teams. 
Baseball, by contrast, receives much more of its media money from local broadcasting deals, largely because it plays twice as many regular-season games as basketball and 10 times as many as football.
"Baseball has never understood TV," said Rick Burton, director of the Warsaw Sports Management Center at the University of Oregon. "And into that vacuum stepped people like Ted Turner and George Steinbrenner, who said if you can't take care of yourself nationally, we'll do it regionally."
The size of a local market is not everything, as the players union has frequently noted when arguing against a salary cap, which puts a limit on payrolls. With resources similar to the Yankees', the Los Angeles Dodgers and Boston Red Sox have not appeared in a single World Series in the last decade.
The Seattle Mariners, meanwhile, have found success. They have overcome an undistinguished history -- they did not win more games than they lost until 1991, their 15th year of existence -- to develop both a winning team and a cult following across the Pacific Northwest. Their games on the regional Fox network are seemingly must-watch TV, commanding the highest ratings by far for a major league team. Fox pays the Mariners handsomely -- $37 million last year as part of a new deal -- but reaped the benefits because the franchise invested in the team.
Still, revenue differences have become a central aspect of baseball, and they dominated the recently concluded negotiations.
The Yankees have made the playoffs every year since 1995, and the Braves have won 10 straight division titles (not including the 1994 strike year).
At the same time, the gap between the teams that draw the most fans and those that draw the least has been widening.
Knowing that many fans felt frustrated by the disparity, Selig and the owners turned "competitive balance" into their rallying cry in the negotiations and won a good deal of public support.
In the end, the contract requires all teams to place 34 percent of their net local revenue into an evenly split league pool, and teams with payrolls above a certain threshold, beginning at $117 million next year, will also face a luxury tax stiffer than the current one. 
The agreement that expired this year had similar, although milder, provisions. For most fans, who care little for how players and owners divide their money, the only true test of the new agreement will be whether it does a better job than the previous one of providing competitive balance and allow teams to hold onto their star players.

The Fans
Paying Customers Do Care. Right?
The news that a baseball strike had been averted may have sparked some celebrations across North America, but the feelings are mixed in Pittsburgh, the small-market city where losing and baseball have formed a lasting relationship.
"Go on strike, don't go on strike, I couldn't care less," Ray Sager of nearby New Castle, Pa., said Friday after the agreement was announced. "I don't have nearly the interest in baseball that I used to. It's not a game anymore; it's just about money. This is a small city and that's the problem. How can we compete? We lost Barry Bonds and that ought to tell you everything you need to know. I can't see anything changing."
It has been Kevin McClatchy's job to change that sort of attitude among his team's fans, but he has made little headway. He has been at the controls of the Pirates since 1996 and the team has not had a winning season. At 60-75 entering last night's game at Florida, the Pirates are all but assured their 10th straight losing season. Their problems are many and not all of them have to do with the fact they play in one of the smaller markets in baseball, so McClatchy and his staff are working with limited resources.
There are 334,563 people living in Pittsburgh. According to McClatchy, the team receives about $9 million in local television revenue, and it is drawing 23,380 fans per game this year, its second at PNC Park. With such meager numbers, a team like the Pirates cannot come close to paying for talent what a team like the Yankees does. The 2002 Yankees' opening-day payroll was some $92 million more than the Pirates' payroll. In 1992, the last year the Pirates made the postseason, and a time when the economics of baseball were different, they were outspent by the Yankees by only $5 million.
With a luxury tax and revenue sharing agreed upon by the players and owners, the chasm figures to narrow.
"The deck may still be stacked against us, but with what happened today it will be a lot more in our favor over the next four years than it has been," McClatchy said. "Still, we have to do a good job in all other areas. The Mets and Texas are two teams that spent a lot of money and it hasn't ensured winning seasons. In the long run, though, this will give our team more of a shot."
Kevin Young, the veteran first baseman for the Pirates, said the reality of playing for a small-market team sets in over time.
"When you have that competitive drive throughout your life, it goes well with a team like Pittsburgh," Young said. "You really have that fight in you and always want to be the underdog and you always look forward to upsetting teams."
He added: "But the reality is that it doesn't work. It doesn't happen that way. You do need players who are optimum level to contribute and produce on a regular basis. To get those type players, it costs money."
Young seemed hopeful that this latest collective bargaining agreement will bring about positive change for Pittsburgh.
"Maybe two, three, four years from now, when I'm not playing, I can look back and say this was the day we solidified baseball as the national pastime."
McClatchy speaks passionately about how devoted he is to winning, about how important it was that the season has been salvaged and how baseball is addressing many of its major problems. He realizes the burden is on management to take any new money and use it to improve the team.
"It is important now that the small-market teams spend their money on players and work toward improving the competitive balance," he said.

The Profits
How the Subsidies Will Pay Off
The new agreement will move hundreds of millions of dollars from teams like the Yankees to teams like the Pirates over the next four years. The biggest question that now hangs over baseball, many observers say, is whether the owners receiving money will invest it in the team, or simply use it to increase their profits.
To the great frustration of big-market owners like George Steinbrenner of the Yankees, there is little evidence on the field of the subsidies that small-revenue teams have received as part of the 1996 labor pact. Unable to compete for top free agents, some of the poorer teams have essentially given up, minimizing their payrolls and, according to critics, pocketing their subsidies.
"Going from 60 wins to 80 wins doesn't really pay for itself," said Pappas, of the Society for American Baseball Research.
The new agreement could change the dynamic by vastly increasing the amount of money small-revenue teams will receive. 
The Minnesota Twins and Oakland A's, for example, are both in first place today despite two of the lowest payrolls in baseball. But many of their talented young players will become free agents over the next four years, jeopardizing the kind of talented nucleus around which the Yankees have to built their dynasty. 
In the recent past, many of the teams' best players would have eventually gone elsewhere, just as Jason Giambi, who may be the best hitter in the American League, left the A's at the end of last season for a $17 million average annual contract with the Yankees -- close to half of Oakland's $40.5 million payroll this year. This could be one reason that the Twins and A's are both drawing many fewer fans than they did when their teams won division titles in the 1980's.
With a larger budget, the teams still will not have the choices that the Red Sox or Dodgers do, but they are likely to have a better chance at keeping at least one of their stars even after he files for free agency. 
"I think it will make a significant difference," said Richard G. Sheehan, an economist at the University of Notre Dame who studies sports business, referring to the agreement. Not only will the poorer teams have more money, he said, but the new luxury tax will also prevent the richest teams from offering as many huge contracts as they have.
On the other hand, Mr. Sheehan said, the new deal offers little incentive for less successful small-revenue teams to sign new free agents.
That could leave teams like the Detroit Tigers, Florida Marlins and Tampa Bay Devil Rays deciding to remain in the vicious cycle of losing and bad attendance. And when the owners agreed in last week's talks not to pursue contraction and close any teams over the next four years -- saving union jobs -- they eliminated one solution many analysts find attractive.
In the 1990's, the owners "overexpanded and diluted the product," said Sal Galatioto, a managing director at Lehman Brothers, who advises buyers and sellers of sports franchises. "And it hurts big-market teams, too. If you're a Yankee fan, you'd rather see five more games against the Red Sox than against the Kansas City Royals."
Without contraction, baseball might approve its first franchise relocation in three decades. The Expos are the most likely candidate, and the Washington area, without a team since the Senators left in 1971, is a potential new location for them.
Still, all 30 franchises will exist in some form until at least 2006. They now have to convince people, in both New York and Pittsburgh, that they are worth watching.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With a strike averted, a fan's sign behind the Rockies coach Toby Harrah said a lot. (Associated Press)(pg. 26) Chart/Photos: "A Balancing Act"Skyrocketing salaries have been financed in part by large TV contracts, which often leave smaller cities unable to compete for highpriced players, creating a competitive imbalance. Resolving the imbalance became part of a long history of player-management disputes. Rising salariesGraph shows the average salary and minimum salary since 1967. Average per-game attendanceGraph shows the average per-game attendance since 1980. Single-season payroll comparisonGraph compares the payrolls for the New York Yankees and the Pittsburgh Pirates since 1982. THIS TIME, NO STRIKESince the mid- 1960's, player-management struggles have been common. 1966Marvin Miller, at left, is hired to direct the players association. 1969-70Curt Flood refuses a trade to the Philadelphia Phillies. He petitions a judge for free agency, and later claims the reserve clause violates the 13th Amendment. A judge dismisses both charges. 1972Players strike for 13 days in April. 1975Pitchers Dave McNally, left, and Andy Messersmith challenge the terms of the leagues reserve clause and end up free agents. 1980Players strike during the last week of spring training. 1981A midseason strike cancels 719 games. 1985A one-day strike in August. No games missed. 1994Players strike Aug. 12 for the remainder of the season. The World Series is canceled. At left, fans show their disgust. 1995Strike from the previous season carries into April. 2002Players and owners reach a last-minute deal to avert a strike. (Source: Major League Baseball)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (96%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%) BASEBALL; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; STRIKES; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (83%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (59%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%) MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID; CHASS, MURRAY; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; SANDOMIR, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (59%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (59%); GEORGIA, USA (56%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



45 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Give a Chance To Re-Evaluate Life 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Two related stories on Aug. 18 intrigued me. One was the cover story in the Westchester section about unemployed breadwinners ("No Memos. No Meetings. No Paychecks"), and the other was about the economy's impact on marriages (Job Market section). 
 In May 2001, I was laid off after a six-month stint at an ad agency -- a relief at the time, considering my less-than-zealous support for my employer. But this was a week after the birth of our child. The plan was for me to be the breadwinner. Instead, I played the role of Mr. Mom while juggling a freelance voice-over career. My wife held the title of breadwinner until about a month ago, when she was laid off. 
 We are using this as a time to re-evaluate our situation. She wasn't happy at first about going back to work with a newborn at home, but we had to make ends meet. Now, with her (modest) severance package, we are able to contemplate our futures and make decisions. My wife will return to school for a nursing degree Eventually I hope to land a full-time gig that dependably pays a decent salary and benefits. It doesn't have to be a stressful, do-everything-I-can-to-advance-my-career job. . 
I've managed to secure a part-time volunteer position at a local historical site. For that I've gotten, "Oh, maybe it'll turn into something else." No! I'm not looking for it to; not everyone is out for monetary or egotistical dividends. I'm doing it because I want to help out. 
It sure seems that people assume just because you're not working full-time that life must be headed for certain disaster. The "oh I'm so sorry" look is, to a degree, appreciated, but I don't think it's necessary to assume that a person's life is in turmoil because he is not working full-time. 
Americans, especially those in affluent communities, have become so accustomed to double incomes and keeping up with the Joneses that we have lost sight of what really matters. The last 12 months have served as a wake-up call, for us at least, to enjoy life and pursue goals that were once only dreams. 

BOB KANE
Ossining

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); VOLUNTEERS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%); HISTORIC SITES (50%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE 

PERSON: KANE, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



46 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 84 words

HEADLINE: PLUS: RUNNING; 
Mwangi Wins Inaugural N.Y. Race

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
Paul Mwangi won the inaugural New York City Run to Liberty, a 10-kilometer race yesterday through lower Manhattan. 
 Mwangi, of Ossining, N.Y., finished the race in 29 minutes 35 seconds. Grace Njoki, of West Chester, Pa., was the top female finisher in 35:04. 
 City officials hoped the event would provide an economic boost to downtown, still recovering from the Sept. 11 attacks.
 About 3,200 people participated in the run, which went past the New York Stock Exchange, Federal Hall and Trinity Church.






LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (90%); CITIES (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) RUNNING; NEW YORK CITY RUN TO LIBERTY 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

PERSON: MWANGI, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



47 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Boome rs, on the Road Again, Spur Sales of RV's

BYLINE:  By FRED BROCK 

 BODY:
RECREATIONAL vehicle sales and rentals are booming, seemingly defying the gravity of a slumping economy. And the good times for this $9 billion-a-year industry may signal better economic days ahead for the nation.
 "Traditionally RV sales have been a leading indicator into and out of recessions," said Ruthanne Williams, an analyst at the RedChip Companies, an independent market research firm in Portland, Ore. 
 If that's the case now, hold on to your trailer hitches: sales are expected to remain strong as consumers continue to warm to a mobile life and vehicles that double as houses. But not everyone is suited for the kind of home that always loses value, gobbles fuel and can leave you stranded on the road. 
David J. Humphreys, the president of the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association in Reston, Va., says many aging baby boomers are starting to embrace RV's and the so-called RV lifestyle. 
"We're riding a demographic wave," Mr. Humphreys said. "We have targeted the baby boomers in an effort to reduce the average age of our consumer, to reduce our emphasis on our traditional market of retirees."
In addition, the terrorist attacks last year might have led to higher RV sales.
"After 9/11, family togetherness, getting away and the importance of being in control became important," Mr. Humphreys said. "The nation had a crisis and the response is to stay home, spend money here and visit relatives. This all fit in with ad campaigns we started running six years ago stressing family ties and concerns about crime. And, of course, the fact that people now want to avoid the hassles at airports has helped us."
Ms. Williams, the analyst, agreed. "Since 9/11, there has been a change of focus toward doing things in America," she said. That is supported by data showing that Americans' travel to Europe is off as much as 30 percent in some countries.
Stewart Schaffer, the chief marketing officer at Lazydays RV SuperCenter, a big dealer in Seffner, Fla., just east of Tampa, said: "In the summer of 2001 a lot of people were putting off buying an RV, or were on the fence about it. After 9/11, they went ahead; the attacks reinforced values and concepts that were already there."
Wholesale shipments of recreational vehicles were up 16 percent in the first half of the year from the comparable period of 2001, according to the RV association. In July, they jumped nearly 31 percent from the year-earlier month. Shipments are expected to increase 14.6 percent for the full year.
Ownership is already at record levels. Nearly seven million households own RV's, up 7.8 percent over the last four years and 42 percent over the last 21 years, according to the trade group.
When many people think of RV's, they probably envision huge motor homes that can cost more than a house. But the term also encompasses smaller vanlike motor homes and less expensive towable campers as well as campers that slip into the beds of pickup trucks. In the four years through 2001, a total of 3.6 million RV's were sold -- 2.4 million of them used and 1.2 million new. Of the total, about a million were motor homes, according to the association.
In addition, RV rentals at the two largest rental agencies in the United States -- Cruise America, based in Mesa, Ariz., and El Monte RV, based in Santa Fe Springs, Calif. -- are running more than 30 percent above last year's pace. "These rentals are really a good indicator of future RV sales," Ms. Williams of RedChip said.
The stock market's tribulations may actually be helping RV sales, according to Mr. Humphreys and others.
"What I hear is that when people are investing their money in the stock market and feeling comfortable, they tend to leave it there," Mr. Humphreys said. "When they're not feeling comfortable, they tend to put their money somewhere where they are comfortable -- like into an RV."
THAT response, typical of many baby boomers and their penchant for instant gratification, might drive a financial adviser to distraction because an RV, unlike a typical house, is a depreciating asset.
But looking at RV's as homes may be the key to understanding their appeal, as well as understanding how people with moderate incomes can afford them, especially the big ones.
For starters, RV's can be financed for up to 20 years and the interest can be tax deductible as a second home -- or as a first home if you're one of the million or so people who live full time on the road.
Steve Ratcliff, the business manager at Lazydays, said that for a $55,000 RV, an average buyer might put $5,000 down and finance the $50,000 balance at 7.5 percent for 15 years. That would leave monthly payments of $465. If financed for 20 years, the monthly payments would be $404. As with a home mortgage, most of the interest appears at the beginning of the loan, when the balance is largest, so the tax deductions are greatest in the early years.
A check with several insurers that specialize in RV coverage showed that annual insurance costs can run from $700 to $2,000, depending on coverage and the state in which the vehicle in registered.
There is a big market for used RV's, and that helps slow the depreciation. Mr. Humphreys of the association said that about 80 percent of first-time buyers purchase used RV's. RV's don't depreciate in value that rapidly, he said, or "lenders wouldn't give 15- and 20-year loans on them."
The amount of fuel gulped by these road behemoths is not for the fainthearted. Some RV owners boast of getting 10 miles a gallon; 6 and 8 are not unheard of.
To help save on fuel, many owners tow small cars which they use for local driving once their RV's are parked. Bernice Beard, the author of "301 Ways to Make RV Travel Safer, Easier, and More Fun" (Arbor House Publishing, $16.95) said that there are more than 16,000 campgrounds for RV's nationwide that charge an average of $23 a night.
RON AND BARB HOFMEISTER have been living on the road full time for 13 years. They started in a 24-foot motor home and have graduated to a $200,000, 40-foot diesel-powered model.
In 1989, Mr. Hofmeister, who is now 70, retired as deputy director of finance for the Michigan Department of Transportation. The couple let the lease on their Lansing town house expire, put their goods in storage and hit the road. Three years later they sold what they had in storage and have never looked back.
"Everything we own is with us on the road," Mrs. Hofmeister, 65, said from her cellphone somewhere in Minnesota. "There is such a sense of freedom, a sense of adventure. It simplifies life so much."
The Hofmeisters have written three books about their mobile life, including "Movin' On: Living and Traveling Full Time in a Recreational Vehicle" (R & B Publications, $16.95). They also have a Web site (www.movinon.net) that, like the book, offers practical advice. The site had about 2,000 hits a day before Sept. 11; since then it has had about 4,000 a day.
"People have fallen in love with this country after 9/11," Mrs. Hofmeister said.
She said that their motor home gets 10 miles a gallon, but that they only drive it 7,000 to 10,000 miles a year. They tow a small Toyota pickup for local travel.
They receive their mail through a mail-forwarding service in Livingston, Tex. They also "domicile" in Texas, using the address of the mail service. So that's where they vote and maintain driver's licenses.
Mrs. Hofmeister said they had not had any trouble getting medical care on the road. "In fact, we have both had major surgery on the road," she added.
The longest they have stayed in one place is seven months. Usually, they stay for a week and then travel for 200 miles. "Sometimes we think we should settle down, but where would we go?" she said. "Now we follow the sun and enjoy the best weather all year."
Joe and Cheryl Taylor of Corydon, Ind., are perhaps more representative of many RV owners. He is a retired school psychologist, she a retired teacher. This spring, for $15,000, they bought a 1984 27-foot motor home with 34,000 miles on it. They wanted it for occasional vacations, and in July they used it for a three-week, 5,000-mile journey to Montana and back. They towed a motorcycle for their "sightseeing wheels."
Despite some problems with breakdowns that left them camping one night in a junkyard, they said their first RV experience was a good one. In fact, they would like to buy a newer, lighter RV that might do better than the 8 miles a gallon they averaged on their trip.
"It's not a money-saving way to travel," Mr. Taylor, 58, said.
But Mrs. Taylor, 56, added: "We would do it again. It was an adventure. We liked the campgrounds, which were very pleasant. You get to know people from all over the country. It's a lot different from staying in a motel where you have a room and don't meet anybody."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cheryl and Joe Taylor, right, of Corydon, Ind., and Rick Wimp, their mechanic. The Taylors say they like their used motor home, bought last spring, despite breakdowns. (Stan Denny for The New York Times); Ron and Barb Hofmeister have been living full time on the road since the spring of 1989. "We follow the sun and enjoy the best weather all year," Mrs. Hofmeister says. (Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (87%); RECREATIONAL VEHICLE DEALERS (79%); RETAIL SALES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AGING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%) RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: REDCHIP COS INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: RECREATION VEHICLE INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: BROCK, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



48 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-1-02: QUESTIONS FOR DICK ARMEY; 
Retiring, Not Shy

BYLINE:  By Jake Tapper 

 BODY:
Q: You're leaving Congress after 18 years this fall. But you've been making news before you go -- your recent comments about Iraq, expressing concerns about American plans to attack, got a lot of attention.Was the press reaction overblown?
 I don't think it was overblown, though I'm not sure it was clearly understood. I was trying to talk about who we are as a nation. 
 I think we're somebody special. And we're not an aggressor. When somebody is compromising the freedom of somebody else on the globe -- as was the case when Saddam Hussein had Iraq invade Kuwait -- we ought to be there. But to attack just when we've got a fruitcake running around some country using it as a venue, I don't see a need.
President Bush seems to think there's a need. 
If he does, nobody has taken the time to show it to me yet.
Do you think that's a weakness of the Bush administration, that it doesn't consult with Congress enough?
You have to remember, this whole debate on the question of whether we attack Vietnam did not originate in the Bush White House --
I'm sorry to interrupt, sir, but you said, "Vietnam." I think you meant Iraq.
Sorry, Iraq. Anyway, it didn't originate with the Bush White House. 
Not to make too big a thing of it, but do you think there was anything Freudian just then when you referred to Iraq as Vietnam?
I was wondering the same thing, but I don't think so. I was not a Vietnam War protester. But I don't know what to make of it. 
I don't think it was a Freudian slip, but who knows?
What if Iraq made a move against Israel?
An attack on Israel is an attack on America, in my estimation. 
My No. 1 priority in foreign policy is to protect Israel.
I'm told you're not as fond of all of our allies -- the French, for instance.
Well, I've never been good at foreign policy. It's never been an area of particular strength. But I learned real early on that if you're having a discussion about foreign policy, just say something disparaging about the French, and everybody will think you know what you're talking about. 
You're known for your rhetorical flourishes, including peppering your speeches with lyrics from country songs. Any reason for that?
I tend to go with country songs more often than others because the lesson is right on the surface. My favorite is "(I'm Just an) Old Chunk of Coal," by Billy Joe Shaver, which should be everyone's campaign song. 
But there's a million of them, and there's a lesson in every one of them.
You're also known among your staff for "Armey's axioms," which you're hoping to collect in a book. Any particular favorites?
"The market is rational; the government's dumb." I also like "You can't get your finger on the problem when you've got it in the wind."
Have the recent corporate scandals shaken your faith in free markets?
No, but my faith in bureaucratic corporate management has been shaken. And we do need to take a look at some corporate managers, because freedom is not a privilege they've taken responsibly. 
You're a former economics professor. Compare teaching to politics.
Here you're working with a more pleasant group of people. There isn't the petty meanness in Congress that you find in university politics.
Really? I think that would surprise most people.
You can take it back to Woodrow Wilson, who said that the reason the fights are so vicious in a university setting is that the stakes are so low. 
My line when I left there is that I just wasn't tough enough for that place. There's a saying in the House: "There are never permanent enemies; there are permanent issues." You have to get along with this guy today because he may be your ally tomorrow. I've got a bill with Jesse Jackson Jr. -- I want to emphasize the Jr.
Having been in the House since 1984, you've seen a number of House speakers. Rank them from best to worst.
Denny Hastert's the best speaker I've had the privilege to work with. Then obviously following him would be Newt Gingrich as second best. I don't know that I want to say who was the worst. 
Why the preference for Hastert over Gingrich?
Newt was really a great politician, but Denny's a legislator. There was a greater similarity between myself and my abilities with Denny than Newt.
There's much chatter about tensions between you and Tom DeLay, the Republican whip. Any last thoughts about him you want to share?
I don't have a whole lot to say about Tom. I'm sure he'll be successful in what he does, and I expect him to be a good leader for this party. 
Is he more like Hastert or Gingrich?
Tom DeLay is more of a politician than a legislator.
Are you going to miss Washington?
No. I'll miss the House of Representatives probably every day for the rest of my life, but I won't miss Washington. Jake Tapper

GRAPHIC: Photo (Dave Martin/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); VIETNAM WAR (66%) 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) TAPPER, JAKE; ARMEY, DICK (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); KUWAIT (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



49 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: SENIORITY; 
In an Election Year, These Protesters Have Power

BYLINE:  By FRED BROCK; Fred Brock is an editor at The Times. His column on the approach and arrival of retirement appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: fbrock@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH was greeted by several hundred union-organized protesters -- mostly older and mostly retired -- when he visited Pittsburgh early last month for a political fund-raiser. The incident, however, was virtually ignored by the national news media.
 The protesters' main concern was health care, in the wake of the Senate's recent failure to reach a compromise on a prescription drug program for the elderly. Many of the demonstrators were retired steelworkers who lost their health care benefits when the LTV Corporation stopped production this spring and sold its assets in bankruptcy court. Federal law helps protect pensions in such cases, but not benefits. 
 According to The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, a fence kept the protesters away from the presidential motorcade, but it didn't keep them quiet. They chanted and waved placards calling for "Prescription Drug Benefits Now." One retired worker told the newspaper that his wife had multiple sclerosis and that since losing his health benefits, his family had had to pay $975 a month for her medicine; another said she and her husband had paid $2,700 -- one-third of their income -- for prescriptions and related medical care since losing benefits last April.
The episode, during the usually politically calm period between the August Congressional recess and Labor Day, could be the harbinger of a rocky campaign season for House and Senate candidates. They will not have fences and the Secret Service to keep demonstrators at bay. Absent a political death wish, no congressman wants to be seen on the local television news being heckled or chased by angry older constituents wanting nothing more than to be able to pay for their prescriptions and buy food at the same time.
The Senate deadlock resulted from divisions over costs and levels of coverage, as well as whether such a program should be run by Medicare or the private sector. A poll of 1,071 adults 45 and over, conducted by AARP from July 31 to Aug. 4, immediately after the Senate deadlock, found considerable concern about the issue. More than 60 percent of those surveyed said that prescription drug benefits were a "very important" issue and that they were "angry" or "very angry" that the two parties could not reach an accord.
The same percentage said they were more likely to vote for their senator if he or she supported a prescription drug plan; more than 25 percent said they would vote against their senator if he or she allowed partisan differences to thwart the legislation.
These are potent numbers for politicians to weigh, especially when they consider the voting habits of older Americans. According to census data and surveys of voters leaving the polls, two-thirds to three-quarters of registered voters over 65 turn out in presidential elections, compared with about half of registered voters over all. In nonpresidential elections years like this one, younger voters tend to drop out, making older voters even more powerful. In the midterm election of 1998, some 58 percent of the voters were over 45, and nearly half were over 50.
Roger Hickey, co-director of the Institute for America's Future, a liberal research organization in Washington, says there is a huge grass-roots movement among older voters to demand prescription drug coverage. "This will dominate this election," he said.
Mr. Hickey's group is working with unions and other organizations on the issue. He predicted more demonstrations this month and next as the political season intensifies. "It's up to groups like ours to do local grass-roots events that force members of Congress to explain to the voters what they will support," he said. "We want to hold their feet to the fire on this and get them to commit not just to a prescription drug plan but to one that works. We have to compete with lots of advertising dollars from the drug companies that want a watered-down bill."
Mr. Hickey said that it was probably a good thing that the Senate failed to reach a compromise before it recessed. "Anything that passed would have been so weakened and would have lost us the possibility of getting a good bill."
The idea of a prescription drug program is so popular that few politicians will be outright against it. Instead, there will be different versions with various benefits and costs. For voters, the problem is deciding whether a candidate supports a good program or a weak one intended to provide political cover by defusing the issue.
For Mr. Hickey and the groups with which he is aligned, a good bill would set up a price-controlled prescription drug program run by Medicare that covers all drugs for all older Americans and is not "means tested," or linked to income. That is pretty much what most Democrats want. The problem is that it could cost $800 billion or more over 10 years.
Drug companies object to price controls, and most Republicans and some conservative Democrats want a program run by private insurance companies and with limited coverage. That position is best reflected in a Republican bill passed by the House. In that version, there would be coverage for part of drug costs up to $2,000 a year, but then people would be on their own until costs reached $3,700 -- a gap that critics call the hole in the doughnut.
The wild card in all this is rising drug costs. Families USA, a consumer advocacy group for health care issues, says the prices of the 50 most prescribed drugs for older adults rose, on average, by nearly three times the rate of inflation last year. The group criticizes big drug makers, saying they pay high executive salaries and spend about twice as much on marketing, advertising and administration as on research and development of drugs.
Jeff Blum, executive director of US Action, an advocacy group, argues that the public is far ahead of elected officials in linking access to drugs with cost control. "People know if there is not some serious controlling of drug prices, they're not going to get the benefit of a prescription drug program," he said.
Mr. Hickey of the Institute for America's Future says surveys indicate that people don't want means testing for programs like prescription drugs or Medicare, and that they don't want the programs turned over to the private sector.
"But that's what elections are for," he added. "Hopefully, a new Congress will have clear instructions from voters on this issue."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christophe Vorlet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (76%); RIOTS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); US LABOR DAY (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (55%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (54%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (53%); CENSUS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; AGED; ELECTIONS; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

COMPANY: LTV CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BROCK, FRED; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



50 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2940 words

HEADLINE: A Guardian of Jobs or a 'Reverse Robin Hood'? 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT is hard to imagine why Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire who is Thailand's prime minister, would need a helping hand from the United States government for his family business, an Asian telecommunications giant called the Shin Corporation.
 The Shin business empire, which Mr. Shinawatra founded and is still majority owned by his family, spreads from India to Indochina. It is Thailand's largest telecommunications company. But last May, to the consternation of competitors, Shin Satellite, a subsidiary, won a $160 million loan guarantee from the Export-Import Bank of the United States to buy a new telecommunications satellite and strengthen its grip in Southeast Asia. 
 For the bank, a Depression-era agency founded to promote exports, the rationale was simple. Loral Space and Communications, an American manufacturer run by Bernard L. Schwartz, a longtime Democratic Party donor, was Shin's supplier, and commercial banks, according to the bank, would not finance the deal without the loan guarantee. 
Crying foul, Shin Satellite's competitors tried to block the deal in Congress. "How is it that billionaires like Shinawatra and Bernie Schwartz can get the U.S. taxpayers to subsidize their deals?" asked Franklin G. Polk, a lobbyist for New Skies Satellites, a rival based in the Netherlands that, like other companies, was able to get private financing, but not at the rates as low as Shin's government-backed loans.
How indeed? 
At a time when the Bush administration says it wants to cut back on corporate welfare, the Export-Import bank, often called a "reverse Robin Hood" for taking money from American taxpayers and giving it to wealthy corporations, is growing. In June, while the public was focused on corporate scandals, President Bush quietly signed legislation to double the scope of the bank's operations and allow it to provide up to $100 billion in international trade assistance at any one time.
Even before this increase, Export-Import was already by far the largest federal agency providing international credit aid, outpacing international food and disaster aid programs. The bank has long expanded beyond its initial mission of aiding American exporters when times were tough. And a growing chorus of critics -- from free traders on the right to trade unionists on the left -- say the bank has become a tool for an elite group of politically well-connected corporations to get sweetheart deals and cheap financing courtesy of American taxpayers.
"We already regard Ex-Im as the poster boy for the anti-corporate-welfare movement," said Stephen Moore, an analyst at the Cato Institute, a Washington research group that promotes free trade. "It's a huge amount of money that goes to the wealthiest corporations. There is no rationale for the government to be involved in this."
In fact, Export-Import policies in recent years have had the perverse effect of sending American jobs, rather than goods and services, overseas. There was, for example, the case of a Chinese steel mill, the Benxi Iron and Steel Group, that received an $18 million Export-Import backed loan in December 2000 to buy American-made equipment only to be found a year later to be dumping steel into American markets and slapped with a 90 percent antidumping tariff. In that year, steel companies in the United States laid off 30,000 workers and more than 20 of the companies filed for bankruptcy.
MORE fundamentally, there are questions about why the bank exists at all. Less than 1 percent of all American exports receive Export-Import financing, which comes in the form of direct loans, loan guarantees or export credit insurance. The bulk of Export-Import's benefits go to a small number of large companies that are sophisticated enough to get financing on their own: Boeing, Halliburton, General Electric, Northrop Grumman, Lucent Technologies, ChevronTexaco, Caterpillar and Dell Computer, among others. 
"This is naked corporate welfare," said Representative Ron Paul, a Texas Republican and one of a handful of Congressional critics. "It never ceases to amaze me how members of Congress who criticize welfare for the poor on moral and constitutional grounds see no problem with the even more objectionable programs that provide welfare for the rich."
But there is a clear reason the bank thrives, no matter who occupies the White House or the top jobs in Congress. While the bank cannot lobby for itself, its beneficiaries can.
"You have an incredibly well-funded lobbying operation led by companies that are not only campaign contributors but also talk about creating jobs," said Thomas A. Schatz, president of Citizens Against Government Waste, a public interest group. "That's a big rallying cry for members of Congress. They think that jobs will help them get re-elected, and once you say that jobs are at risk in their district, they go running for cover."
Money has always flowed from the bank to the politically savvy. In its heyday, Enron was one of the bank's biggest beneficiaries, receiving a total of $675 million in aid since 1994. Enron's former chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, was one of the bank's most active supporters, buttonholing politicians on all levels of government on its behalf, including George W. Bush when he was governor of Texas, according to memos and letters in the Texas State Library and Archives Commission. (The Justice Department is investigating Enron's dealings with all federal agencies, including the Export-Import bank.)
These days, blue-chip companies have even formed a trade association, the Coalition for Employment Through Exports, whose sole job is to protect the bank from budget cutters. Members include Washington lobbying powerhouses like the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and companies like United Parcel Service, Verizon Communications, United Technologies, Bechtel, Oracle, Citigroup and Bank of America.
"We have a highly organized set of trade associations and, through them, a large number of companies that depend on Ex-Im," said Edmund B. Rice, president of the coalition. "We use the resources of our members to help make our case and apply that clout to the administration and members of Congress."
Not only are these companies major campaign contributors to members of Congress, they often are leading employers in many Congressional districts, not shy about dispatching top executives or plant managers to plead the bank's case on Capitol Hill. Export-Import works hand-in-glove with these lobbyists, giving them the ammunition they need.
The bank keeps an extensive data bank that breaks down all the deals it has done, Congressional district by Congressional district, subcontractor by subcontractor, and contains the names of 300,000 executives with whom it has met. From it, a lobbyist can get tailor-made information on Export-Import activities going back five years to make the bank's case. 
"In administration after administration, Export-Import was always on the top of the list to get cut," said Mr. Moore at Cato. But he added that such efforts "have never succeeded because of the full-court lobbying blitz by Fortune 500 companies."
"We've never succeeded in pulling the plug on it," he said.
RATHER, the bank is so flush that it has begun to spend some of its vast resources on industries that may not appear to need help. 
For instance, the bank recently started a program to support one of the nation's strongest exporters, the film industry. Among the first four independent films to receive Export-Import loan guarantees is a story of troubled youth called 'The United States of Leland,' produced by and starring Kevin Spacey, the Oscar-winning actor. Other films with Export-Import backing are about a lethal virus, a military project gone awry and a reality show.
A bank news release says the film project is to "promote more U.S.-based film production and preserve entertainment jobs in the United States." That said, only 51 percent of the film's budget needs to be spent on American goods and services, which can include the salaries of American stars. Nor is there a requirement that the films be shot in the United States, although these four will be.
"I've never met a government agency so willing to be helpful," said Lewis Horwitz, a financial backer of independent films who is getting Export-Import aid for four films.
The bank's own experience, surviving so many attempts on its life, could make a movie script. 
When Mr. Bush took office, his administration called for a 25 percent cut in the bank's budget as part of an effort "to reduce subsidies that primarily benefit corporations rather than individuals," according to a White House statement on the 2002 budget. But Mr. Bush has now endorsed a five-year expansion plan that will increase the total value of the loans the bank can guarantee to $100 billion from the $56 billion currently outstanding.
The increase breezed through Congress. When the Bush administration first tried to cut the program, 31 senators, including top Republicans, sent a letter to the president opposing his action. The legislation to expand Export-Import's reach passed the House, on a vote of 344 to 78, and was approved by unanimous consent in the Senate.
"We said to Congress, 'This is what we need,' " said Eduardo Aguirre, a former Bank of America executive in Texas and the bank's vice chairman. "And they said 'O.K.' "
Facing political reality, Mr. Bush has joined the chorus singing the bank's praises. An administration spokesman said a new policy, allowing the bank to guarantee more loans against fewer reserves, and thus requiring less government money while increasing risk, had earned it points in the White House. 
During a meeting in May with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Mr. Bush actually promoted the bank as the way to finance a $2.9 billion Caspian Sea pipeline that the two leaders favor. While nothing official has been announced, the companies involved in this project are BP, Exxon Mobil and ChevronTexaco.
Commercial banks, meanwhile, love Export-Import loan guarantees because they turn corporate loans for business in risky places into risk-free loans. If a corporate borrower halts payments on an Export-Import backed loan, the federal government must step in and pay it off. The bank claims a default rate of less than 2 percent.
American exporters love it even more. With an Export-Import loan guarantee, they can borrow money from banks at lower rates and more favorable terms than usual. And if they get into a jam overseas, the Export-Import bank can be a powerful ally. "You've got the full weight of our U.S. embassy, our ambassador, the Treasury Department here and overseas, the State Department, all coming in," said Mr. Rice at the export coalition. On the other hand, small businesses, which often need the help more than large companies, get short shrift from the bank, despite Congressional pressure to change that practice. Only 18 percent of the bank's financing last year went to small business, down from 21 percent in 1998.
Moreover, in its eagerness, the Export-Import bank rarely if ever analyzes the larger economic impact of its programs and its executives acknowledge that they cannot determine exactly how many jobs -- if any -- have been created or saved by its financing. Last week, environmentalist groups sued the bank, seeking to force it to consider potential global-warming effects of projects it backs.
Yet Export-Import officials, having heard it all before, bat it away.
"People who say it's corporate welfare do not understand Ex-Im," Mr. Aguirre said. "Our mission is jobs. Jobs to support exports. Well-paying jobs. What they say is corporate welfare I say is sustaining jobs. We are here to finance exports that would not take place without Ex-Im financing. Tell that to the people who would not have jobs without us."
By far the biggest user of the bank's financing is Boeing, which last year received $2.5 billion in loan guarantees, more than one-quarter of the bank's $9.2 billion in transaction volume. This aid helped win aircraft sales for Boeing to China, Austria, Ireland, South Korea, Turkey and Chile that otherwise might have gone to rival Airbus. Some even call the bank "the Bank of Boeing."
Cheryl Russell, director for federal affairs at Boeing, said: "These deals might not have gone forward without Ex-Im. We are the largest exporter of manufactured goods in the U.S., so it is logical that we are the No. 1 user of the bank. Our overseas sales are growing at a much faster rate than our U.S. sales. That makes Ex-Im even more important to us in the future."
Some Boeing workers have a different view. 
Workers at the company's plant in Wichita, Kan., fume about the seepage of their jobs, particularly work involving tail sections, to manufacturers in China under deals backed by the Export-Import Bank. In the last two years, the bank has provided $791.5 million in aid to help Boeing sell planes to Chinese airlines in deals that often require some parts of the planes to be built in China.
"Why in the world would you permit the use of taxpayer money to finance deals that drain our national industrial and skill base?" said Matt Bates, a spokesman for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents Boeing workers. 
"There were huge scandals in this country 25 years ago when aircraft executives were found to be sealing deals by handing over briefcases of money," he added. "That's been outlawed. Yet it is perfectly legal for companies to seal aircraft deals by agreeing to transfer tens of thousands of highly skilled jobs to other countries with taxpayer money."
Boeing says such offshore manufacturing arrangements are an inevitable cost of doing business.
"As with most large international companies with extensive overseas sales, foreign buyers expect to have a certain amount of manufacturing work that accompanies the sale," Ms. Russell said. 
Perhaps no recent single transaction causes as much furor as the $18 million China steel deal. The bank provided the loan guarantees over vigorous protests from the steel industry and unions.
"Why are they pouring money into other countries to build additional steel capacity?" asked George Becker, a former president of the United Steelworkers of America, who has testified about the bank before Congress. "This isn't trade. It's dismantling our manufacturing base and robbing our workers of their right to earn a living."
Terrence D. Straub, a lobbyist for United States Steel and a member of the Export-Import bank advisory board, said: "The China steel deal really reflected an arrogance by the lending officials at Ex-Im. All the red flags were there, and they were waved vigorously. The deal did not make sense." 
That aid package prompted insertion of a provision in the Export-Import bill signed by President Bush to prevent similar deals from happening again and led to legislation that cut $18 million from Export-Import budget.
BUT the same issue has come up again. Last month, after protests from the Ohio and Pennsylvania Congressional delegations and the steel industry, the bank announced that it was dropping plans to provide $19 million in loan guarantees for a Turkish steel company to buy American-made equipment. 
"We pounded on this one like hell," said Gary Hubbard, a spokesman for the United Steelworkers of America.
Still, the bank is considering a $35 million financing to a Mexican company for the purchase of American-made equipment that would increase its automotive crankshaft production by 700,000 units a year; the crankshafts would then be exported to the United States, where American auto workers do the same job, but for higher wages.
The bank is also deciding on a $14 million loan guarantee to an American company, which it would not identify, so that a Mexican company, which it also would not identify, can increase output of aluminum engine blocks by 550,000 units a year -- with the output to be shipped to the United States. Bank officials declined to say whether these projects would cause a loss in American automaking jobs.
"Is this the best way to create U.S. jobs?" asked Representative Bernard Sanders, the Vermont independent and one of the few Congressional critics. "Absolutely not. Export-Import is generous with taxpayer dollars and we get nothing in return. It's vulgar. At a time when we are having a real crisis in this country and are losing jobs, Ex-Im is sending them overseas. Yet these are the most important corporations in the United States and they get what they want in Washington."
In the debate over the recent Export-Import legislation, an attempt by Representatives Sanders and Paul to deny aid to American companies shifting jobs overseas failed on a vote of 283 to 135.
It's no accident that the votes are so lopsided.
"As a staff member for a congressman, you can call up Ex-Im and say, 'My congressman represents District 13 in the state of whatever,' " said a Treasury official. "They will spit out a report saying, 'Here are the businesses by name in your district that receive Ex-Im help.' The bank is politically savvy. It's active in promoting its products in each Congressional district."
The bank also knows how to make individual legislators look good before voters. One of its biggest outreach efforts is seminars throughout the country, about one a week, that bring together local executives and Export-Import officials to promote its programs. Whom does it also invite, to show voters the benefits that Washington brings to Main Street? Each district's local Congressional delegation, which can take credit for what Export-Import has done.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra of Thailand, left, who received Export-Import bank loan guarantees for a company he and his family own. Boeing has also received aid, in deals that subcontract work on aircraft tails in China. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 1); A mill of the Benxi Iron and Steel Group in China. The Export-Import bank was criticized for backing an $18 million loan to the business. (pg. 12) Chart: "For Corporate Giants, a Big Boost"Large and influential companies get big loan guarantees from the Export-Import Bank, a federal agency. COMPANY: BoeingLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): $2,540.5 COMPANY: HalliburtonLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 481.4 COMPANY: FluorLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 462.3 COMPANY: General ElectricLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 279.6 COMPANY: Petrleos de VenezuelaLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 196.1 COMPANY: Northrop GrummanLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 195.5 COMPANY: BechtelLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 178.1 COMPANY: ABBLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 118.9 COMPANY: SiemensLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 108.7 COMPANY: Edward BatemanLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 102.9 COMPANY: Applied MaterialsLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 93.8 COMPANY: Lucent TechnologiesLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 91.2 COMPANY: ChevronTexacoLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 68.9 COMPANY: KLA-TencorLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 61.3 COMPANY: Phillips PetroleumLOAN GUARANTEE AMOUNT (In millions): 50.7 (Source: Coalition for Employment Through Exports)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); FAMILY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); DISASTER RELIEF (62%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); SCANDALS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (71%); LORAL CORP (57%); THAICOM PCL (57%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF US 

TICKER: THCOM (SET) (57%); LORL (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (71%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (71%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) WAYNE, LESLIE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIAONING, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); THAILAND (94%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



51 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: The World: First Among Evils?; 
The Debate Over Attacking Iraq Heats Up

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex. 

 BODY:
WHEN Vice President Dick Cheney declared last week that "the risks of inaction are greater than the risks of action" when it comes to ousting Saddam Hussein, the rest of the world read between the lines. Despite White House denials that President Bush has yet to decide about military action, it sounded as if Mr. Cheney was saying that he and his boss have concluded there is no diplomatic solution to the Iraq problem.
 Further United Nations inspections, he said, would dangerously "provide false comfort." Providing no details, he said Iraq will obtain nuclear weapons "fairly soon." His tone suggested the administration doesn't plan to get sucked into a lengthy discussion on the subject with its allies. 
 It is that sense of urgency -- and a debate over whether it is justified -- that will likely dominate the arguments over Iraq in the next few weeks. Mr. Cheney has presented the specter of an Iraq on the verge of a nuclear capability that it could use to blackmail the world, "seek domination of the entire Middle East" and "take control of a great portion of the world's energy supplies." But his critics -- who include virtually all Arab governments and most European allies -- replied that if the White House has evidence that doom is imminent, they have not shared it. 
Now, as President Bush decamps from his monthlong stay at his ranch here, he knows it is up to him to make the case that delay could be deadly. He will argue, aides say, that the rest of the world is averting its eyes to disaster as surely as Europe did in the 1930's, or America before it was attacked in 1941 and 2001.
That is a very different tone than the administration struck just a year ago, before Sept. 11. Then it talked of containing Iraq with "smart sanctions" as it debated how to handle Iran and North Korea, the other members of what Mr. Bush later called the "axis of evil." Both seem closer to a nuclear capability than Iraq, and Tehran has historically been more involved with far-flung terrorists. The Central Intelligence Agency believes Pyongyang already has what Iraq seeks: crude nuclear weapons and missiles that can fly hundreds of miles and might some day span the Pacific.
So when did Iraq become the most urgent of these problems -- the one that had to be dealt with first?
The answer is sometime after Sept. 11. Before then Iraq was considered essentially a regional threat whose conventional military power was far weaker than it was during the 1991 gulf war. And critics of the Cheney campaign about Iraq argue that, at least based on what is known publicly, the equation hasn't changed much.
"Where is the sense of urgency coming from?" Gen. Wesley Clark, one of several former military officials who have urged the administration to take a deep breath, asked on television. "He's had weapons of mass destruction for 20 years. He doesn't have nuclear material, and we'd likely have some notice of the breakdown of the containment regime."
But one thing has changed: the regional threat that Iraq poses now has more clearly global implications. Its efforts to inflame the Israeli-Palestinian fight reverberate in America's extremely delicate relationships in the Middle East, and those relationships are critical to its ability to secure aid and sympathy in its war on terrorism. Beyond that, the administration is convinced that sooner or later Al Qaeda and Mr. Hussein will find a mutuality of interests, with Iraq providing chemical, biological or nuclear materials and Al Qaeda the bodies to deliver them.
OF course Al Qaeda might look elsewhere for that material (Pakistan comes to mind, and the former Soviet states of Central Asia). But the way the Bush team sees the world, no one has more motive to strike the United States than Iraq, and no one has more opportunity than the graduates of Al Qaeda's training camps.
"I don't know how much stronger a case you have to have that this man is a very dangerous player in international politics, and that he is not reformable," says Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, citing the times Mr. Hussein has used chemical weapons, bamboozled inspectors and built nuclear complexes. Her clear conclusion is that Iraq is not a power America can engage, even in the kind of arms-length, smoke-signal conversation that is sporadically under way with North Korea and Iran. In the Cheney-Rice-Rumsfeld logic, that leaves Mr. Bush two options: pray that Saddam Hussein won't get the weapons he seeks, or depose him before he does.
Where the administration's critics part with the logic is not on their analysis of Saddam Hussein's wickedness, but on the question of whether it can be safely contained. "People out here think this sense that time is running out is manufactured," said Stephen Cohen, a Middle East expert at the Israel Policy Forum, at the end of a tour of the region. "There is a sense that the U.S. built up an energy in the war on terrorism, it kind of bogged down, and this is the way to put energy back in it."
So Mr. Bush has been deluged for the past two weeks with warnings that rather than aid his battle against terrorism, a unilateral attack on Mr. Hussein would undercut the cooperation and intelligence help he needs. That was the message delivered in an awkward visit to his ranch last week by the Saudi ambassador, Prince Bandar. As soon as lunch ended, the Saudis repeated their warnings that an attack would lead to anti-American eruptions throughout the Arab world -- exactly what Saddam seeks, they say. Mr. Cheney argues that "the opposite is true" and that the eruptions in Baghdad would be joyous, "the same way throngs in Kabul greeted the Americans."
Mr. Cheney's speeches were also designed to answer the critiques that have hurt the most: Those delivered by former President George Bush's most trusted national security advisers, Brent Scowcroft and James A. Baker III. Mr. Cheney never named his old colleagues. But he left no doubt that he disagreed with Mr. Scowcroft's conclusion that "Saddam's goals have little in common with the terrorists who threaten us" and that the Iraqi leader wouldn't risk nuclear blackmail because he is a "power-hungry survivor" who knows America's response would be devastating.
NOR did Mr. Cheney seem persuaded by Mr. Baker's argument that America has no choice but to "occupy the moral high ground" by seeking new authorization to act against Mr. Hussein in the United Nations. The White House fears such a process would delay or derail the goal of ousting the Iraqi leader.
The vice president has not addressed why the strategies employed to keep the other axis of evil members in check won't work in the case of Iraq, but in an interview, Ms. Rice did. "There's a certain logic to each of these cases," she said, that explains why Mr. Bush is satisfied for now to jawbone Iran and North Korea while declaring there is no way to live with Mr. Hussein.
As North Korea desperately stumbles toward economic reforms, she said, the United States holds a trump card: Unless Pyongyang's suspected weapons sites are inspected, the West won't deliver the proliferation-resistant reactors that will give the North the electricity it desperately needs.
Of course, that was also true a year ago when Mr. Bush and Ms. Rice came to the White House breathing fire about the North Korean threat. But that view has slowly changed, a rare victory for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and for the Japanese and South Koreans, who Ms. Rice acknowledges have a big stake in how this unfolds. That may explain why the administration welcomed Japan's announcement Friday that its prime minister will visit Pyongyang.
In Iran's case, Ms. Rice argues that the split between the Iranian people and the hardline clerics who hold the levers of power offers America an opening. "The goal here," she said, "is to appeal to and encourage that part of Iranian society not satisfied with a government that, while presenting a moderate front to the outside, supports terrorism, builds weapons of mass destruction, sends weapons into the West Bank." She is encouraged, she says, that some reformers in the Iranian parliament have asked "hard questions about Iranian policy."
Iraq, she argues, is very different. The cease-fire terms Mr. Hussein signed in 1991 were clear: He would hold no weapons of mass destruction. "This wasn't about negotiating weapons inspections," she said. "It's about disarmament."
As he returns to Washington, Mr. Bush will be making the case that the world may be ready to fuzz up its memories of that agreement, but he is not.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At an Iraqi pesticide plant suspected of producing chemical weapons, a machine bears a label placed by United Nations inspectors. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DESERT STORM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXTORTION (67%); TERRORISM (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (67%) IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (67%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



52 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Overtures to 'Axis of Evil' Nations Strain Its Ties With U.S. 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS with MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
A flurry of Russian overtures to Iraq, Iran and North Korea nations the United States calls an "axis of evil" -- is exposing strains in the newly forged relationship between Presidents Bush and Vladimir V. Putin, American and Russian officials say.
 In recent weeks, Mr. Putin's government has conspicuously pursued a range of economic and diplomatic accords with all three countries -- from proposals to drill for oil in Iraq and build nuclear reactors in Iran to a warm meeting between Mr. Putin and North Korea's reclusive leader, Kim Jong Il, in Vladivostok on Aug. 23. 
 On Monday, the Iraqi foreign minister, Naji Sabri Ahmad al-Hadithi, is scheduled to arrive in Moscow for two days of meetings with his Russian counterpart, Igor S. Ivanov, and other senior officials. Russian officials said the visit could end with the signing of a 10-year, $40 billion plan to expand economic investment between the two countries. 
Although the plan has been in the works for two years, Iraqi officials seem eager to close the deal -- if only to bolster international opposition to the Bush administration's efforts to overthrow the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein.
The overtures have surprised and angered senior Bush administration officials, who seem frustrated that warmer relations with Mr. Putin's Russia have not been translated into support for the administration's goals, especially regarding Iraq and Iran.
In a rebuke more reminiscent of the cold war than of the new partnership Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin have pledged, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld recently warned that Russia's relations with nations the United States considers enemies threatened to erode its diplomatic and economic standing.
"To the extent that Russia decides that it wants to parade its relationship with countries like Iraq and Libya and Syria and Cuba and North Korea, it sends a signal out across the globe that that is what Russia thinks is a good thing to do, to deal with the terrorist states," Mr. Rumsfeld said.
Russian officials have defended the overtures, saying that Mr. Putin's government is simply pursuing its own diplomatic and economic interests. Russia shares a border with North Korea and has longstanding trade ties with it, as well as with Iraq and Iran. 
For now, officials from both countries play down the possibility of a breach in the new partnership. Despite criticisms like Mr. Rumsfeld's, American officials said that Mr. Putin remained a staunch ally in the campaign against international terrorism. The administration's looming showdown over Iraq could severely test that.
"What's more important is what the Russians' attitude is toward regime change and taking military action in Iraq," said Robert J. Einhorn, a former Clinton administration nonproliferation official now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "Is it going to be a problem, or will they stand on the sidelines?" 
Senior politicians and diplomats said in interviews this week that Russian objectives in Iraq, Iran and North Korea did not necessarily contradict American ones, even though they acknowledged that sharp differences remained over many issues and tactics.
In the case of North Korea, for example, Mr. Ivanov helped broker the unusual meeting in Brunei on July 31 between Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the North Korean foreign minister, Paek Nam Sun, according to a senior Russian aide. That was the highest level American contact with North Korea since President Bush took office 20 months ago.
After Mr. Putin's meeting with Mr. Kim, the two Koreas also resumed negotiations on a rail link that would connect the peninsula with Russia's Trans-Siberian Railroad, opening a trade route across the continent to European markets that could bring millions of dollars in duties and transit fees for Russia's economy. 
Indeed Russia's diplomacy with the North Koreans is far from unique. As with the Bush administration's policies toward Iraq and Iran, it is the American policy toward North Korea that seems isolated. 
On Friday, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan announced that he would travel to North Korea for the first time, raising the prospect of a thaw in relations, despite the Bush administration's efforts to isolate North Korea, along with Iraq and Iran.
"North Korea is not like Iraq and Iran," said Georgi D. Toloraya, deputy director general of the Russian Foreign Ministry's Asian department. "First, they want to talk, and second, they want to change. That's why we shouldn't lose the chance."
Mikhail V. Margelov, chairman of the international affairs committee in Russia's upper house of Parliament, said he believed that Iran too, like North Korea, could be "modernized." For that reason, he said, it would be better to cultivate rather than sever relations. 
"If we can do it peacefully," he said, "why not?"
Harsh rebukes like Mr. Rumsfeld's also belie the fact that Mr. Putin's government appears to have taken into account American objections to Russia's recent rounds of diplomacy. 
In late July, the Russian government disclosed a draft of a 10-year program to expand economic, industrial and scientific cooperation with Iran. The agreement, still not approved by either side, included proposals to build as many as five more nuclear-power reactors like one already under construction at Bushehr, a city on the Persian Gulf. 
Russia's project at Bushehr -- worth $800 million -- represents the most serious rift between the United States and Russia. President Bush and other officials have repeatedly objected to the project at Bushehr, warning that the Russian assistance could help Iran develop nuclear weapons. 
A senior administration official said last month that Russian scientists and expertise have already been put to use in a secret weapons program -- something Iran denies having.
A week after the proposals to build more reactors were disclosed, however, Russia appeared to back away from them. After pointed discussions here in Moscow with Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, the minister of Russia's nuclear energy agency, Aleksandr Y. Rumyantsev, suggested for the first time that Russia was prepared to take into account "political factors" before deepening its assistance to Iran.
Likewise, Russian officials have played down the disclosure of a similar program of economic cooperation with Iraq -- estimated at $40 billion over 10 years -- as simply a wish list for Russian companies that depended on the lifting of United Nations sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990.
As President Bush's antiterrorism efforts jell into open threats to overthrow Mr. Hussein, next week's meetings between the Iraqi and Russian foreign ministers will be a measure of Russia's desire to distance itself from Mr. Bush in the weeks leading up to any showdown with Iraq.
Russian officials at the United Nations and elsewhere have been steadfast in insisting that Mr. Hussein's government allow international weapons inspectors return to Iraq and complete their search for nuclear, chemical and biological weapons before sanctions can be lifted.
Russia's historical, political and economic ties with Iraq make for a tangled relationship that could pose genuine problems for any American military campaign against Baghdad. Iraq's debt to the old Soviet Union totals at least $8 billion, and Baghdad offered Russian oil companies billions more in concessions during the 1990's as it sought to build support in the United Nations.
Russia is also Iraq's largest supplier in the United Nations' oil-for-food program, sending at least $2.5 billion a year in nonmilitary goods in exchange for cash raised by oil sales.
Even so, Russia appears to be exploring the possibility of a post-Hussein Iraq. Last week, a Russian envoy met with representatives of the Iraqi opposition in Washington, and while officials here described the meeting as a routine diplomatic contact that did not signal a change in Russia's opposition to a war against Iraq, it nonetheless suggested Russia hoped to keep its options open.
"I see no love by President Putin or Minister Ivanov in keeping weapons of mass of destruction in Iraq," Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, said, referring to the defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov. "They have a real eagerness to get that under control, same as we do."
Russia's diplomatic overtures also appear to reflect a struggle over the direction the country will take. As Mr. Putin tries to turn it to the West, he has been buffeted by nationalistic forces eager to differ with the United States, industrial leaders eager to find markets and ministries that sometimes work at odds with one another. 
Stephen Sestanovich, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said the Bush administration's greatest fear is the possibility that Russia could use its influence to force Iraq's acquiescence to a new inspection regime. That could set up a clash with the United States if the Bush administration decides to proceed with military operations anyway. 
"That," he said, "would be the worst-case scenario."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Recent diplomatic moves by Russia toward countries considered terrorist states by the Bush administration include, top, a meeting by Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov, right, and his Iraqi counterpart, Naji Sabri Ahmad al-Hadithi; center, talks between President Vladimir V. Putin, right, and Iran's foreign minister, Kamal Kharrazi; and Mr. Putin's meeting with Kim Jong Il of North Korea. (Pool photo by Itar-Tass); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); KIM JONG IL (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); MYERS, STEVEN LEE; WINES, MICHAEL; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (79%) RUSSIA; IRAQ; IRAN; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



53 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: DOMESTIC CONCERNS TAKE CENTER STAGE IN CONGRESS RACES 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: GRANITE CITY, Ill., Aug. 30 

 BODY:
The fight for control of Congress is revolving this Labor Day more around domestic than foreign concerns, with candidates battling over corporate abuses, prescription drug costs and Social Security rather than the threat of terrorism or the prospect of a war against Iraq.
 The emphasis on these domestic issues at what is traditionally the start of the general election season would seem to give an advantage to the Democratic Party. In state after state, Democrats and some Republicans are using speeches, television advertisements and news conferences to invoke these topics, at a pace that has quickened in recent days with the approach of the fall campaigns. 
 But Democratic leaders acknowledge that so far, at least, Republican candidates have been effective in blunting their attacks, either by seizing some of those same issues or by pointing to Congressional votes on, for example, corporate responsibility and prescription drug prices that blur the lines on what Democrats would like to be a sharp partisan divide. 
Some Democrats said they had not yet seen conclusive evidence that what even Republicans said was a favorable electoral climate for Democrats nationally was affecting the outcome in the handful of competitive House and Senate races. 
"There is a discernible switch in the national environment to the Democrats," said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster whose clients include the Democratic National Committee. That assessment was echoed by some Republican pollsters this week. But, Mr. Mellman added, "The next question one has to ask is, what difference does that make in an individual race?"
With control of both houses in the balance, President Bush has set a heavy itinerary through the fall to help elect a Republican Congress. The Democrats control the Senate by one seat, while Republicans have a six-seat edge in the House.
The complicated dynamics of the 2002 Congressional elections were on display early the other morning in a closely watched contest here in southern Illinois between two members of Congress from opposite parties, forced to run against each other because of redistricting.
The Democrat, Representative David Phelps, was seated at a diner after greeting workers arriving just past dawn at Granite City Steel, running through the litany of issues Democrats argue will lift them to power in November. The Republican Party is too cozy with corporate interests, Mr. Phelps said. The Democratic Party would fight "to protect Illinois families from the Republican plot of privatization" of Social Security, he said, adding that the federal government needed to deal with rising prescription drug costs.
But Mr. Phelps stopped short and tilted his head when he noticed a television advertisement on the screen next to the Heinz ketchup dispenser on the wall. There was former Representative Jim Talent, the Republican candidate for Senate in Missouri, across the Mississippi River, talking about the same thing he was: prescription drug coverage. 
"Social Security, prescription drugs, patient's bill or rights -- that was our bailiwick," Mr. Phelps said, pointing to the screen. "But here's what has made it a little more of a challenge, rather than just being an automatic. The Republicans have been smart."
The evening before, at a community picnic in Farina, a tiny farming town halfway across Illinois, Mr. Phelps's Republican opponent, Representative John Shimkus, said he was not concerned about the television advertisements Mr. Phelps was airing attacking him for taking money from Enron. He had voted in favor of the corporate responsibility bill, which was signed by Mr. Bush, he said, and that should settle any question Mr. Phelps might raise about his position on corporate malfeasance.
"We did it -- with legislation," Mr. Shimkus said. "It's done." What of the Democratic promise to deal with the excessive costs of prescription drugs? "We've got a prescription drug bill," Mr. Shimkus said, referring to the bill that House Republicans passed before Congress adjourned for the summer. "He can attack all he wants."
Indeed, in Washington, Mitch Bainwol, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said in a telephone interview that he was not concerned that Senate races had centered on domestic rather than foreign issues.
"We're happy to fight it out in their box," Mr. Bainwol said of the Democrats. "The bottom line is that the Republicans delivered, and we delivered on issue after issue."
"The Democrats placed their bet," Mr. Bainwol added. "They said, 'Ah, corporate responsibility is our issue. Let's go.' And the unattractive part of it is that it's betting against America, and that's distasteful. And it looks like their bet is misplaced."
Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the Missouri Democrat who is the House minority leader and who spent this week campaigning on behalf of Democratic candidates, described what Republicans were doing in trying to blur the lines as "stunning stuff," though he asserted it would not ultimately succeed.
"If you believe that their greater amount of money will allow them to say anything they want and get away with it -- well, I don't think they can pull it off," Mr. Gephardt said in an interview. "I call them the party of illusion."
In some ways, Republicans and Democrats are in surprising agreement about what issues voters are considering. "When we ask people what issues they are remembering in the campaign, the No. 1 issue they are saying is corporate abuse," said Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster. "And the second issue is prescription drugs."
Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, said, "At the moment, at least, the campaigns are being played out on Democratic turf: health care at the front of the line, with corporate responsibility right there with it." 
Still, the climate remains highly volatile, shadowed by the uncertainty of the economy, an unstable stock market and the potential that an attack on Iraq could in an instant upend the political landscape. Republican strategists said they were relieved that the daily doses of bad economic and Wall Street news from earlier in the summer -- which they said gave much fuel to Democratic attacks -- had appeared to subside, though they expressed concern that the tide could turn again.
So far, as even some Republicans acknowledge, Democrats have set the agenda for what is being debated in many races, from health care to the stock market to the environment.
"The Republicans are trying to inoculate on corporate responsibility, they are trying to inoculate on prescription drugs," said Stuart Rothenberg, editor and publisher of The Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan election newsletter that tracks races across the country. "They are not really carrying the debate to the Democrats."
But several Republicans said that this, too, could change. For one thing, in some districts, Republicans are moving to play an old standby card, taxes, in portraying Democrats as big spenders. Mr. Shimkus said he used that issue with great success in 2000, and was likely to make sure this time that Illinois voters know Mr. Phelps opposed Mr. Bush's tax cut.
Several Republicans said the issue of national security would become increasingly prevalent, particularly if the administration ratchets up talk about ousting Saddam Hussein.
Congress returns to Washington this week, and the most immediate issues it is likely to begin discussing are Iraq and passage of a domestic security bill. A protracted debate on those subjects in Washington could affect the debate in district races across the nation.
Representative Thomas M. Davis III, the Virginia Republican who is chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said his candidates would aggressively push the security issue in the coming weeks. He argued that Democrats would, institutionally, be forced to raise questions about any action against Iraq, in a way that he said would remind voters of their concerns about Democratic leadership at a time of crisis. 
"Their peace wing requires it," Mr. Davis said.
Meanwhile, Democrats are doing what they can to keep attention at home. In central Pennsylvania, in another race between two incumbents, Representative Tim Holden, the Democrat, who is running against Representative George W. Gekas, is airing an advertisement promising to "oppose all efforts" to privatize Social Security.
In Colorado, Tom Strickland, the Democratic challenger to Senator Wayne Allard, has been seeking to attack Mr. Allard as being too close to corporate America. But Mr. Allard has been doing the same thing to Mr. Strickland, probably neutralizing this central Democratic issue.
"Republicans have done a pretty good job of running interference," said Charles E. Cook Jr. of The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan chronicle of elections.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Because of redistricting, two current members of Congress, John Shimkus, a Republican (left photo, left), and David Phelps, a Democrat (right photo, right), are running against each other in southern Illinois. (Peter Newcomb for The New York Times); (Greg Ahrens for The New York Times)(pg. 24) Chart: "Primary Calendar"These are the dates of primaries yet to be held. 3 -- Nevada 7 -- Delaware 10 -- Arizona, Connecticut, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia*, Maryland, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Vermont, Wisconsin 17 -- Massachusetts, Oklahoma*, Washington 21 -- Hawaii *Runoff election. Chart/Photos: "As Campaign Season Heats Up, Some Races to Watch" SENATE ARKANSAS2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 51.3%GORE: 45.9%R Senator Tim HutchinsonD Mark Pryor Mr. Hutchinson is Arkansas's first Republican senator, and the Democrats are trying to buck a Republican trend in the South by holding him to a single term. Mr. Pryor is the state attorney general and the son of a former senator. A White House analysis of the elections, found in June after an intern apparently dropped it in a park, declared there was a "strong chance" that Mr. Hutchinson would lose. As of now, many analysts think that is a fairly good bet. COLORADO2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 50.8%GORE: 42.4%R Senator Wayne AllardD Tom Strickland Each candidate is using corporate responsibility to try to discredit the other. Republicans ran an advertisement this year noting that Mr. Allard had supported corporate responsibility legislation. The ad annoyed Democrats, who accuse Mr. Allard of appropriating an issue they would like to think is theirs. This race is a rematch: Mr. Allard defeated Mr. Strickland by 51 percent to 46 percent in 1996. MINNESOTA2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 45.5%GORE: 47.9%D Senator Paul WellstoneR Norm Coleman Mr. Wellstone, who has become a symbol of liberal politicians, is seeking a third term. Mr. Coleman is the former mayor of St. Paul and a Democrat who became a Republican. The White House cleared the path for Mr. Coleman to get the nomination, so Mr. Bush is more than a little invested in the outcome of this race. Mr. Bush visited in July to raise money for Mr. Coleman and will probably do so again. MISSOURI2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 50.4%GORE: 47.1%D Senator Jean CarnahanR Jim Talent Mrs. Carnahan is trying to serve out the term to which she was appointed after her husband, Mel, was killed in a plane crash in 2000. So far, this is a race where a relative newcomer is holding off an experienced challenger. Mr. Talent, a former congressman, has been a steady figure in Missouri politics for nearly 20 years. Missouri is a crucial state in any presidential election, so both parties are paying close attention. NEW JERSEY2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 40.3%GORE: 56.1%D Senator Robert G. TorricelliR Douglas R. Forrester In an increasingly Democratic state, Mr. Torricelli should be gliding toward re-election against Mr. Forrester, the owner of a pharmaceutical benefits firm. But after years of ethics investigations the White House has listed Mr. Torricelli as particularly vulnerable, and polls have made clear that he has a real race on his hands. SOUTH DAKOTA2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 60.3%GORE: 37.6%D Senator Tim JohnsonR Rep. John Thune This campaign is as about as national a race as this state has ever witnessed. President Bush talked Mr. Thune, who preferred to run for governor, into running against Mr. Johnson. Since then Mr. Bush and his aides have been diligent fundraisers. The state is also home to Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, so the race gives two powerful politicians a chance to duke it out, at a distance. HOUSE ALABAMA 3rd2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 56.8%*GORE: 42.1%D Joe TurnhamR Mike Rogers This seat was left vacant by Representative Bob Riley, a Republican who is running for governor. Mr. Rogers is a state representative, and Mr. Turnham is a former state Democratic chairman. Democrats are looking for a victory to rebut the notion that the South has turned solidly Republican. But as even some Democrats have noted, Mr. Turnham lost to Mr. Riley in 1998 by 58 percent to 42 percent. CONNECTICUT 5th2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 43.4%GORE: 52.1%R Rep. Nancy L. JohnsonD Rep. Jim Maloney These two House veterans found themselves in the same district after the state lost a Congressional district. The district is fairly evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats. But Ms. Johnson has about four times as much cash on hand as Mr. Maloney, and her position as a moderate Republican might make her particularly well suited to this district. MARYLAND 8th2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 31.1%GORE: 65.5%R Rep. Constance A. MorellaDemocrat to be chosen in primary on Sept. 10 As a Republican, Ms. Morella has represented one of the most Democratic districts in the nation for eight terms. The district, in the Washington suburbs, has become increasingly Democratic in the past two years, raising Democrats' hopes. Among the Democratic candidates are Mark Shriver, a state delegate and the son of Eunice Kennedy Shriver and Sargent Shriver, and State Senator Christopher Van Hollen. NEVADA 3rd2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 47.8%GORE: 48.5%D Dario HerreraR Jon Porter This new district represents changing demographic trends in America. It is the product of explosive growth in the Las Vegas suburbs, and it has a substantial Hispanic registration. Mr. Herrera, however, has drawn ethics criticism over a contract from the Las Vegas Housing Commission. Democrats are trying to portray Mr. Porter as a supporter of privatizing Social Security. PENNSYLVANIA 17th2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 56.1%GORE: 41.6%R Rep. George W. GekasD Rep. Tim Holden This is a hard-fought race between two incumbents, and a big target for both parties. For now, Mr. Gekas appears to have some advantages: the new district contains 60 percent of Mr. Gekas's old district. Watch this district for a test of how the trade issue works in industrial parts of the nation. Democrats are attacking Mr. Gekas as supporting easing of trade barriers by supporting Nafta. SOUTH DAKOTA at large2000 presidential vote:BUSH: 60.3%GORE: 37.6%R Gov. William J. JanklowD Stephanie Herseth This has become an intense, fastpaced campaign, in no small part because it is closely intermingled with the intense, fast-paced Senate campaign. Mr. Janklow is in his fourth term as governor. Ms. Herseth is a first-time candidate, though she has the benefit of a familiar name: her grandfather was a governor, her father a state legislator. Democrats hope the momentum in the Senate race will translate into an upset. *Results for Alabamas 3rd District before redistricting; data are not available for the newly drawn district, which is more Democratic. (Source: National Committee for an Effective Congress district boundaries, 2000 vote results in House districts )(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); DRUG PRICES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); REDISTRICTING (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) ELECTIONS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES; HEALTH INSURANCE; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR AN EFFECTIVE CONGRESS (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%) UNITED NATIONS; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: MARK PRYOR (79%); NORM COLEMAN (79%); JOHN THUNE (78%); BOB RILEY (78%); TIM HOLDEN (78%); STEPHANIE HERSETH SANDLIN (73%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (73%); JOHN SHIMKUS (73%); JON C PORTER (73%); MIKE ROGERS (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); TOM DASCHLE (70%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



54 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: School's In; Squabbling's Out; 
With Complaints Muted, Peace Prevails in a Remade Education System

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
In these last few days before New York City schools open for another academic year, something strange is in the air: a sense of calm, good will and even optimism about the future of public education in the city.
 Early September is usually a time for dire predictions about the school year to come, as politicians, educators and others with a stake in New York's sprawling school system air their grievances and dodge the blame for whatever problems threaten the opening of school. Last year, for example, Harold O. Levy, then the schools chancellor, ordered $150 million in cuts just days before school started. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had refused to hand over money that Mr. Levy was counting on, because he thought that the chancellor was allowing administrative waste. "He's just trying to get attention," Mr. Giuliani scoffed after Mr. Levy loudly predicted disastrous consequences. 
 A year later, for the first time in recent memory, the usual suspects do not have the usual reasons to complain. Nor, significantly, are they looking for any. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has won direct control of the school system, the prize that eluded Mr. Giuliani and several of his predecessors. The politically fractious Board of Education was abolished in July, and as a result, Mr. Bloomberg alone got to choose the new chancellor, Joel I. Klein. 
Meanwhile, a new contract has awarded raises to the city's 80,000 teachers, eliminating their longest-standing gripe.
Mr. Bloomberg and Randi Weingarten, the teachers' union president, have studiously avoided attacks on the school system this summer. In fact, at a news conference on Wednesday, the mayor went so far as to say that New York City "already is, incidentally, the nation's best large-city school system."
That statement alone, compared with Mr. Bloomberg's "rinky-dink candy store" assessment of the school system last spring -- before he won control -- and Mr. Giuliani's often-stated desire to "blow up" the system, speaks volumes about how quickly things have changed.
Then there is Chancellor Klein, who has said little since starting work on Aug. 19. After a succession of chancellors who took to the airwaves at this time of year to detail the demons they faced -- overcrowding, teacher shortages, fights with the mayor and the like -- Mr. Klein's silence has contributed to this year's subdued tone.
Maybe the peace and quiet mean that the school system, freed from the political infighting that plagued it for years, finally has the ingredients for drastic improvement. Or maybe it means that the powers that be, having won their personal battles, have lost interest in drawing attention to deeper problems they may find harder to solve. 
Either way, a new question looms as the school year begins: Will all this optimism become a self-fulfilling prophecy? Or are the recent changes only a small, largely symbolic first step?
"It's not just a matter of taking away the politics," said Robert Berne, vice president for academic affairs at New York University and a longtime observer of the school system. "It's a matter of channeling all that energy that was previously ill-used in trivial squabbles and using it for more bold change."
Just how Mr. Klein and Mr. Bloomberg will channel that energy remains to be seen.
Most educators agree the system's needs are pressing. Only 39 percent of the system's 1.1 million students can read and write at grade level; even fewer meet standards in mathematics. The dropout rate has climbed in recent years, and overcrowding remains the bane of hundreds of city schools.
While the new teachers' contract and the flagging economy helped New York recruit a record number of certified teachers this year, severe shortages remain in math and science. And in a school system where most new teachers leave within five years, educators say, Mr. Klein will have to provide considerable training and support to hang onto the 8,300 newest recruits.
Mr. Bloomberg has kept his plans for combating these problems under wraps -- partly because he is still forming them, observers believe, but also because announcing an agenda invites sometimes crippling criticism. 
Even Mr. Bloomberg's selection of a chancellor was kept secret until the day of the announcement, which was extraordinary in a city where previous chancellor searches almost always got bogged down in politics and rancorous public debate.
Likewise, Mr. Klein's decision not to announce specific goals or grant interviews during his first month on the job has helped keep the usual dissent at bay. This apolitical way of doing business is, of course, part of a larger change that Mr. Bloomberg is trying to effect in New York. 
Joseph P. Viteritti, a research professor at New York University, said that while it was too early to gauge the effect on entrenched problems like low test scores, the intent was admirable.
"I'm more optimistic about the chances for improvement now than under the old system, where every decision was a political one," said Mr. Viteritti, who wrote "Across the River: Politics and Education in the City" (Holmes & Meier Publishers, 1983). "Whether in the end it will eliminate politics to the point where it makes the system unaccountable is a question that many people are going to ask. But so far it's too early to say."
So far, Mr. Viteritti said, the public does not seem to mind the sea change. He pointed to Mr. Bloomberg's surprise appointment of Mr. Klein and the fact that there were few rumbles of protest -- those by the Rev. Al Sharpton and City Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn among a handful of others -- which quickly died.
"Bloomberg seems to have at least the tacit approval of the public to proceed this way," Mr. Viteritti said, "because people were so disgusted with how entrenched in politics the whole education process had become. This new system permits the chancellor to make decisions based on the merits and not get sidetracked by political considerations that have nothing to do with the end result."
Not only that, but the quiet way in which Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Klein have run the system so far could help cure the deeply entrenched cynicism that New Yorkers feel toward the schools, said Noreen Connell, executive director of the Education Priorities Panel.
"It almost creates a feeling of trust, because they aren't giving us a lot of empty rhetoric," said Ms. Connell, whose organization, monitors for problems in schools. "When you have a chancellor who gets into office and says every child will read, then you hear some pathetic story about a kid who can't read by high school, people become inured and cynical."
On the other hand, Ms. Connell noted, since Mr. Bloomberg is the first mayor to take control of the schools since John V. Lindsay in the 1960's, few people in city government have the kind of institutional knowledge about the school system that Mr. Bloomberg should be able to draw on now that he is in charge.
"For over 100 years the mayor controlled the schools one way or another, so there was some level of expertise," Ms. Connell said. "Now there's none. I'm interested in how this huge gap in knowledge about the school system will play out."
Mr. Berne, of New York University, said that to succeed, Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Klein would have to win the cooperation of the business community, nonprofit groups, parents and the teachers' and principals' unions.
"Education is different from other city services in that it requires a community conversation," Mr. Berne said. "Failure to share long-term vision, failure to win support of various constituencies, failure to have a proper airing of controversial issues, could in the long run be detrimental. The broader resources of New York are required to turn this thing around."

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); POLITICS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); LABOR SHORTAGES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%) UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) GOODNOUGH, ABBY; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



55 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Pursues a Verbal War Against Iraq, Other Nations Raise Their Voices 

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
As the Bush administration ratchets up its verbal war against Iraq, the rest of the world is talking back -- in statements that contain more skepticism and disapproval than support and that are often determined by domestic politics, economic problems, distrust of the United States and concerns about international law.
 Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain has probably come closest in aligning his government with the United States on Iraq and today he affirmed earlier statements calling for action against Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, telling reporters on a flight to Africa, "The world cannot stand by and allow Iraq to be in flagrant breach of all the United Nations resolutions on developing chemical, biological and nuclear weapons." 
 But while doing nothing about Iraq's breach of the United Nations resolutions is "not an option," he said, what to do remains an "open question."
Mr. Blair hinted that international approval would be necessary for any military action, saying of the American-led strikes in Kosovo and Afghanistan, "We acted in a calm and sensible and measured way with the broadest international support." 
The Bush administration's war talk terrifies those who want to avoid more bloodshed and instability in the Middle East, annoys those who want to focus on more basic concerns such as ample food and clean water, pleases those who want to see a change of government in Iraq and mystifies those who believe that 11 years of deterrence has worked.
In Australia, the prospect of war against Iraq has enraged wheat farmers, who worry that Mr. Hussein may make good on his threat to slash grain imports if the Australian government keeps up its tough talk. 
In Israel, the Health Ministry is preparing to vaccinate 15,000 police officers, firefighters and disaster relief workers against smallpox, fearing that Iraq could use the deadly virus as a biological weapon. 
In Russia, Yuri Shafranik, a former fuel and energy minister turned oil and gas lobbyist, told a newspaper that a war against Iraq would leave Russian investors with only one option: "When the United State strikes, shoot yourself." 
American war planning has complicated Germany's close election campaign, antagonized Arab allies like President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt who feel the Palestinian crisis must be solved first and given political cartoonists a flood of fresh material. A cartoon in a recent issue of the French weekly satirical paper Le Canard Enchaine shows President Bush as a pistol-packing cowboy, articulating a magic formula for prosperity. "It's simple," Mr. Bush says. "If the Dow Jones doesn't go up, I'll annihilate Iraq." 
Public opinion polls underscore the range of opinion. One cited in the Paris weekly Le Journal du Dimanche reported that 76 percent of the French against a war, and only 18 percent in favor. By contrast, a poll in the Israeli newspaper Maariv found 57 percent of Israelis favoring American military action. 
In Britain, polls show a war against Iraq would be unpopular, especially among activists in Mr. Blair's own left-leaning Labor Party. 
From the perspective of some countries, Sept. 11 disastrously reordered Washington's priorities, and the prospect of war against the country with the world's second-largest oil reserves is even more disheartening. 
Before Sept. 11, Mexico was at the top of the American foreign policy agenda. No more. Many of President Vicente Fox's hopes for a transformed relationship with the United States have been unfulfilled. Mexico is trying to help the United States secure its southern border and chase money-laundering leads but feels it has received little in return. So it is not surprising that Mr. Fox has offered no support for an attack on Iraq. "We can't get involved in any way in any war," he said this week. 
In Russia, which has signed a $40 billion cooperation deal with Iraq, many pundits predict calamity if war comes, while others see silver linings. Sergei Karaganov, a political analyst, said in a recent interview that an American-led attack on Iraq "may lead to the disintegration of the international antiterrorist coalition and to instability in the region." But the newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta expressed hope that a war might benefit Russia, saying, "Any rise in oil prices due to such an operation will only help the Russian budget."
In Iran, which was invaded by Iraq in 1980, hard-liners and reformists alike have objected to any attack on their neighbor. Iran has had enough of war -- the Iran-Iraq conflict lasted eight years and cost hundreds of thousands of lives. "We have suffered more than anyone else from Iraq," said President Mohammad Khatami recently. "But we believe intervention in other countries and imposition of the wishes on a country by a bully is much more dangerous than even the presence of the so-called misfit governments." 
As for Kuwait, another victim of Mr. Hussein's aggression, while it formally opposes an attack against Iraq, it would be delighted if Mr. Hussein somehow disappeared from the political landscape. But it does not want to act alone. 
"Kuwait will be always working under an Arab and international umbrella and will be always dealing seriously with the current threat against Iraq which can be avoided if Baghdad adheres to the international resolutions," Kuwait's information minister, Sheik Ahmad Fahd al-Sabah, said this month. 
Saudi Arabia and Pakistan express a more forthright version of Arab solidarity. "We have always opposed any attack against an Arab or Muslim country," said the Saudi foreign minister, Saud al-Faisal, during a recent trip to Iran. "And that also means Iraq." 
President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan warned on Thursday that an American attack on Iraq would "alienate the Muslim world." 
President Jacques Chirac of France has taken what might be called the internationalist-legalistic approach to war against Mr. Hussein, arguing that any use of force must be approved by the United Nations Security Council. 
There is a precedent. Before the first Bush administration went to war against Mr. Hussein in 1991, Secretary of State James A. Baker III went on a global tour to lobby Security Council members to vote for a resolution authorizing the use of force. Yemen and Cuba voted against it; China abstained. 
This time around, while China has sought to be seen as a partner in the campaign against terror, it opposes an attack on Iraq. This week Beijing received the Iraqi foreign minister, using the occasion to repeat its objection to military action. 
The Chinese have urged Iraq to comply with Security Council resolutions, but Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan pointedly said, "The sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Iraq should also be respected." 
Then there is the save-our-oil approach, which often emerges in Japan. The Yomiuri Shimbun, a newspaper that usually supports American policies, said, "Helping strikes on Iraq would make oil-producing Arab nations hostile to us and cause an energy problem for Japan." 
That is followed by the make-me-an-offer approach, perhaps best seen in Turkey, which shares a border with Iraq. One fear is that the turmoil resulting from an American invasion could spill over into Turkey's troubled southeast, where the Kurdish separatist struggle has claimed 30,000 lives since 1984. 
"We have used every opportunity to tell our friends in the U.S. administration we are opposed to military action against Iraq," Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit said this week.
That said, Turkey may be open to negotiation. It has suggested that it would consider changing its position in exchange for the easing of more than $4 billion owed to the United States for military purchases.
Possibly the most unexpected reason not to go to war against the authoritarian government of Mr. Hussein was offered by the authoritarian government of Vietnam. A Foreign Ministry spokesman said recently that Vietnam "protests any military acts aimed at overthrowing the administration of President Saddam Hussein."
He explained, "The administration of Iraq was elected by the Iraqi people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said possible action against Iraq remains an 'open question.' (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); SMALLPOX (62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); WHEAT FARMING (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%) SCIOLINO, ELAINE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KOSOVO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



56 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Protest for Poor at U.N. Forum in South Africa 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
From the top of the hill, the protesters today could see the gleaming buildings of stone and steel where world leaders will meet in the coming days to debate a new plan to reduce poverty and preserve the environment. More than 100 presidents and prime ministers are scheduled to discuss ways to save dying lakes and retreating forests and to uplift impoverished nations.
 But today, surrounded by teetering shacks, mounds of garbage and children in tattered shoes, thousands of people marched through the streets to demonstrate their distrust and disillusionment with promises by governments to help the poor and protect the environment. 
 There were Malawians protesting hunger in Africa, Paraguayans warning about the dangers of dams, Palestinians complaining about Israel's policies and Americans assailing President Bush's decision not to participate in this meeting. But most of the protesters were poor, ordinary South Africans who hoped to deliver a message to the leaders attending the United Nations World Summit on Sustainable Development. 
"Water for the thirsty!" shouted some demonstrators as they marched through the township of Alexandra toward the marble-lined convention center where the leaders will meet. "Light for the people! Homes for the homeless!"
As the police followed in armored trucks and helicopters circled overhead, the protesters waved banners calling for the dismantling of the World Bank, an end to privatization and greater access to water and land for the destitute. The crowd condemned Mr. Bush, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, but reserved some of the bitterest attacks for President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, who was criticized for not tending to the needs of the poor.
"People are crying here," said Muzi Tshabalala, 24, who lives in a one-room shack in Alexandra's teeming shantytown with his parents and siblings. "We must have bathrooms in the houses and ceilings. President Mbeki makes promises, but afterward he forgets about us." 
The leaders have already agreed that the meeting's action plan must help alleviate poverty, protect wildlife and deliver electricity and housing to the poor. Officials hope to build on the ambitious, but poorly carried out, agenda set at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro 10 years ago. 
But government negotiators, who have been meeting here all week, are deadlocked. Developing countries want the world to agree to halve by 2015 the number of people without sanitation. They also want the United States and Europe to reduce or eliminate the subsidies that protect their businesses and farmers from competition from poor nations. 
The United States has balked at the target for sanitation and, along with officials of the European Union, has refused demands to specify reductions in agricultural subsidies. American officials say they have already agreed to increase foreign aid to the poor and to begin partnerships with poor nations, civic groups and businesses to expand access to water, electricity and sanitation in the developing world. 
Negotiators here have already agreed to offer incentives for investment in cleaner forms of production, to provide additional resources to keep deserts from spreading and to meet another goal by 2015: to reduce by half the number of people living on less than $1 a day. But none of these commitments are groundbreaking; the commitment on poverty, for instance, was adopted two years ago at the Millennium Summit at the United Nations. 
At the Earth Summit, marchers said, similar promises were made with little effect in places like Africa.
In the 1990's, Africa had the world's highest rate of deforestation as poor people cleared trees for farmland and firewood. Pollution worsened as millions of Africans abandoned rural villages for urban shantytowns, foreign aid from wealthy nations declined and poverty deepened. Africans are poorer today than they were in the late 1960's.
Hoping to quell the mounting anger and disillusionment, Mr. Mbeki came to Alexandra township today to address thousands of protesters at the local soccer stadium. He assailed what he described as a new form of "global apartheid" that divides the rich and the poor and promised that he was fighting for ordinary people.
"Poor people in Alexandra want jobs," Mr. Mbeki said as the crowd cheered. "Poor people in Alexandra want to come out of their shacks and live in decent houses. The people need health, access to water and sanitation. They want to end poverty and have a decent standard of living. These are the same things that the poor of the world are saying." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (83%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); CHILDREN (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); RIOTS (75%); WILDLIFE (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (63%); AGRICULTURE (60%); HELICOPTERS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ENVIRONMENT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED NATIONS WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); THABO MBEKI (74%); TONY BLAIR (50%) SWARNS, RACHEL L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MBEKI, THABO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (76%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%) EARTH (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MALAWI (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002 



57 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Why Americans Should Rest 

BYLINE:  By Juliet Schor; Juliet Schor is a professor of sociology at Boston College and the author of "The Overworked American."

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
In the last decade an annual Labor Day ritual has emerged: bemoaning the national workload. The story has a thousand angles. The United States surpasses workaholic Japan in average hours. Dot-commers go 24/7. The family dinner has disappeared. The working poor are holding three and four jobs just to make ends meet. Neither the renewed commitment to family and community after Sept. 11 nor the presence of a committed leisure enthusiast in the White House seems to have had an impact. Worker overload has felt like an intransigent problem.
 But this year might be different. More free time might just be the silver lining in the clouds of a depressed economy, corporate scandals and the hangover from the 1990's consumer binge. 
 The story of the overworked American (my book of that title was published a decade ago) has legs largely because working hours have risen for three decades. According to estimates from the Economic Policy Institute, between 1973 and 1998 average annual hours increased from 1,720 to 1,898. Recognition of the problem became widespread, as armies of "work-family consultants" counseled corporations on how to achieve "balance." Most large companies put flexible work options on the books. The academic literature mushroomed. But these changes hardly made a dent.
Why has overwork been so persistent? One reason is that it is generally more profitable for firms to employ a small work force for long hours. The benefits costs are lower, employers can be more selective about whom they hire, and hours are a simple (if inaccurate) proxy for commitment. Employees who dislike the long hours have typically had to change jobs, or even occupations, to gain free time.
During the 1990's, robust consumer demand intensified these incentives. The boom also created great opportunity for individuals, which spurred work effort. While workers made significant gains in employment and income, they paid with their time. Indeed, by the end of the decade, it had begun to feel like Industrial Revolution redux, with a massive outpouring of work effort. Overtime hours, already at record highs, rose further. By the end of the decade, married couples with children logged an additional 151 hours of work annually.
And despite their strengthening labor-market position, employees failed to gain legal rights to vacation time -- in sharp contrast to Europeans. While my book caused a controversy over whether working hours had in fact increased, by the mid-1990's even the time-diary data wielded by my critics had begun to register increases in work time. The first Industrial Revolution paradox -- labor-saving technologies resulting in more, rather than less work -- was repeating itself.
These developments created a blowback effect. Rising hours led to rising incomes, which in turn raised the consumer norms that households adhere to. Prosperity turned more luxuries into necessities and raised aspirations: for consumer electronics, larger homes, travel, larger vehicles.
But because the gains in income and wealth went disproportionately to upper-income households, most families could only realize higher spending norms by putting in additional hours and taking on debt. By 1997, the National Survey of the Changing Workforce found that nearly two-thirds of employees were on the job more than they wanted to be.
Much of this has changed during the last year. Many firms are facing stagnant or declining demand, lower earnings and pressure to cut back on labor. On the household side, there is a new rationale for restraint in consumption. Personal bankruptcies are soaring again, trillions of dollars in wealth have vanished in a falling market and economic opportunity is harder to find. These developments make it an ideal moment to reduce hours broadly rather than eliminate jobs.
We've heard a lot in the last year from national leaders about the need for sacrifice and community. Surely allocating work more equitably should be part of any change. A creative policy might turn these worthy sentiments into reality. Employees on reduced schedules could be authorized to collect partial unemployment insurance; Congress could give tax breaks to firms that enact work redistribution.
A year ago, such proposals might have been dismissed as unrealistic. But the financial scandals of recent months have created an opening for a more comprehensive questioning of corporate behavior. As long as we're scrutinizing the relationship between companies and their shareholders and pensioners, how about looking at the inflexible work norms imposed on workers?
During the last six months, a national "Take Back Your Time Day" movement has gained momentum, urging Americans to take the day off on Oct. 24, 2003. The date, coming nine weeks before the end of the year, symbolizes the additional nine weeks Americans work in comparison to Continental Western Europeans. 
In the end, even more than work schedules, incomes and employment are at stake: our choices affect the rest of the world. For the last half century, America's tendency has been to consume more, rather than work less. This propensity to work is central to why the United States is among the world's wealthiest nations as well as the unrivaled leader in resource depletion, carbon-dioxide emissions and environmental impact. By next Labor Day, perhaps, the message will be that we're slowing down, sharing the work and consuming a little less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); OVERTIME (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LITERATURE (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); SCANDALS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (53%) LABOR; WORKING HOURS; LABOR DAY 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: SCHOR, JULIET B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



58 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: MediaTalk; 
Striking a Sour Note on Technology Outlays

BYLINE:  By BARNABY FEDER 

 BODY:
Investors and information-technology equipment vendors searching the economic tea leaves for signs of a rebound in technology spending might want to stop reading right here. The META Group said that the results of its latest monthly survey on where technology users have been investing -- and expect to invest -- suggest that business investment in computers, software and related technology is likely to decline again next year, rather than growing as many vendors have been projecting.
 "We just don't see a bump in 2003," said Howard Rubin, executive vice president at META, a research and consulting firm based in Stamford, Conn. "It looks like spending will end up down around 12 percent this year, and the initial indications from people making budgets are that it could fall an average of 15 percent in 2003." 
 The declines Dr. Rubin has in mind are in the measurements of information-technology spending as a percentage of overall company revenue. His estimates of spending measured in dollars are less discouraging. That figure will be down about 5 percent, he said.
The most recent results reflect responses from more than 1,000 companies in 47 countries, META said. Except for a slight uptick in May, respondents to META's survey have been reporting, on average, declining spending on information technology as a percentage of company revenue every month since January. The latest figure, 3.21 percent, is the lowest since last November.
The data is not uniformly bleak for equipment and service vendors. Spending so far this year, which Dr. Rubin said is a good guide for what to expect in the coming months, is up smartly in a some of the 33 categories into which META divides the market.
Web-based technology is particularly strong. Half the companies are spending more on developing Web-based programs than they did last year, compared with 18 percent that report spending less. By contrast, 45 percent are spending less to develop computer applications that are not tied to the Internet, compared with just 14 percent that are spending more this year. But spending on e-commerce and e-procurement has grown more modestly than spending on internal Web-based applications, suggesting that the hottest area for expanded use of the Internet is for systems inside companies.
In general, Dr. Rubin said, investments that provide quick improvement in existing systems are getting much more attention than those that require longer to pay off and could have a big impact on business, like video services. Nearly half the companies say they are spending less on consulting than they did last year.
Unfortunately for vendors seeking market guidance from the META data, its 33rd spending category -- "other" -- is the best place to be. Dr. Rubin dismissed the category as a hodgepodge of niche markets too small to break out, but none of the respondents are spending less on "other" this year, and 50 percent said they were spending more. BARNABY FEDER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CLOUD COMPUTING (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); METADATA MANAGEMENT (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

ORGANIZATION: META GROUP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



59 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
A case study in usinge-mail to reach valued customers rapidly.

BYLINE:  By Susan Stellin 

 BODY:
FREQUENT fliers who have agreed to receive e-mail updates from airlines have recently been the recipients of a more sobering set of messages along with the usual announcements about travel promotions and mileage summaries. 
 One by one, airlines that have announced bankruptcy filings, layoffs or other potentially unsettling news in recent weeks have quickly followed up with e-mail dispatches to customers from company executives, offering their own versions of developments that have made headlines. 
 The format, despite variations, has followed a similar pattern: acknowledge the company's difficult financial situation, reassure travelers that the airline is continuing to fly, emphasize that customers' tickets and frequent-flier miles are not in jeopardy and thank them for their loyalty and support in these challenging times. 
Airlines are certainly not the only companies to pursue this communications strategy as bad news has touched nearly every segment of the economy. Amtrak, for one, sent out similar e-mail messages to customers in the wake of recent disruptions on its Acela Express trains. And Todd Eberhard, president of Eberhard Investments in New York City, recently sent out a message reassuring clients of the long-term value of the stock market -- despite "these difficult times." 
But with a spate of e-mail messages in mid-August, the airlines provided something of a case study on the emerging use of e-mail to deliver corporate messages rapidly to valued customers, unfiltered by the media and unhindered by the cumbersome process of sending printed direct mail. 
The late-summer round of messages began with an e-mail message sent by US Airways on Aug. 12 with the subject line: "News on US Airways Restructuring." The message described the company's filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and, as if to signal the seriousness of the situation, the message was signed by the company's president and chief executive, David Siegel. A message sent in May by US Airways, about the company's interim effort to seek financing from the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, had been signed by the senior vice president for marketing and planning. 
Both messages from US Airways were particularly frank about financial details -- explaining the bankruptcy process in lay terms, citing investments from specific companies and outlining what would happen next. The Aug. 12 message said, "We anticipate that our court-supervised restructuring will be accomplished on a 'fast track' and have targeted emergence from Chapter 11 in the first quarter of 2003." 
An e-mail message three days later from another carrier, United Airlines, labeled "A Special Message From United," was direct about the possibility of a Chapter 11 filing but much lighter on details. Though the tone of the message was generally measured, the use of capital letters near the end to assure customers that United would "CONTINUE TO FLY A SAFE AND RELIABLE AIRLINE," and would "HONOR MILES PREVIOUSLY EARNED IN MILEAGE PLUS," perhaps inadvertently conveyed a hint of panic or instability that has come to be associated with the use of the caps-lock key when communicating online. 
On Aug. 20, American Airlines transmitted a "Special Message to Our Customers" signed by Mike Gunn, executive vice president for marketing and planning. Mr. Gunn's e-mail message imparted the news that American would eliminate some flights and aircraft and spread flights at its Dallas-Fort Worth hub more evenly throughout the day, but offered a silver lining: a longer layover would allow "enough extra time to make the difference between running and walking to catch your connecting flight." 
Tim Doke, vice president for corporate communications for American Airlines, said the recent e-mail message, as well as ones sent by American after Sept. 11 and the Nov. 13 crash of Flight 587, had enabled the company "to do some more emotional kinds of communicating with people -- communicating on a different level than marketing to them." 
Indeed, e-mail messages sent to customers by the airlines after Sept. 11 -- and periodically throughout the year, with updates on security measures and airport procedures -- seem to have set the stage for the recent round of messages about the financial problems plaguing the industry. 
"It's not a blatant effort to bypass the media," Mr. Doke said. "But it is a way to say 'in case through all this confusion you're not getting our message, here is our message.' " 
Mr. Doke and representatives of other airlines say they send e-mail messages only to customers who have asked to receive them -- usually, frequent fliers who have signed up for mileage summaries or weekly updates about last-minute travel deals. In some cases, airlines have a separate option that customers can select to receive news about the company by e-mail.
David Castelveter, a spokesman for US Airways, said the news about the company's financial overhaul went to just about every e-mail list it maintained, but noted that such a mass distribution would be warranted only by unusual circumstances. 
"We are deliberate in what we put out," he said. "It's what we feel as a company is significant." 
Mr. Castelveter emphasized that the use of e-mail had not replaced other communications channels. US Airways also mailed a paper letter to customers about the bankruptcy announcement and posted on its Web site video clips with its president discussing the situation. The airline has also included an editorial about the bankruptcy process in the September issue of its in-flight magazine. 
But airline representatives said that customers were increasingly expressing a preference to receive company communications by e-mail and that most recipients had responded positively to e-mail updates about security and other matters affecting the travel industry. 
Mr. Doke of American Airlines said that the e-mail messages occasionally prompted a recipient to send a reply with something like "this is all well and good, but what happened to the 6:30 flight from La Guardia to Atlanta?" 
The next level of sophistication in such e-mail campaigns, according to communications strategists, would be to tailor the messages to specific subsets of their customers -- sending some types of information for people who frequently fly coast to coast, for example, while reserving other messages for the short-hop business travelers.
"If I travel the exact same shuttle every time, then what I'm going to be interested in is whether that shuttle is still going to fly," said Martha Rogers, a partner at the Peppers & Rogers Group, a consulting firm that focuses on customer relationships. "Then I would be getting something I want to know in exchange for getting something they want me to know."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); CASE STUDIES (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); TRAINS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (75%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; BANKRUPTCIES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: STELLIN, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



60 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Low-Skilled Workers Swell Ranks of Disability Program
Millions of low-skilled workers have turned to federal disability pay as a refuge from layoffs in recent years, doubling the benefit's cost and, with little notice, making it by far the government's biggest income-support program.
 The number of such workers has grown to 5.42 million from 3 million in 1990, swelling the program's costs to $60 billion last year. That far surpasses unemployment insurance, food stamps or any similar program. Section A. 

Mood Turns Anxious for Workers
With longshoremen, janitors and Boeing employees threatening major strikes and workers reeling from corporate scandals and rising unemployment, the mood among American workers has turned anxious and even angry this Labor Day. Section A.

A Cellphone Service Is Overlooked
Since April it has been possible for customers of any big United States cellphone company to send one another short text messages, but most customers still have no idea the service exists. Already wildly popular overseas, the service, known as S.M.S. (for short message service), has been delayed here. In part, this is because it had been impossible to send messages among carriers and also because the service has not been marketed well by the cellphone companies. C3.

Airlines Communicate Via E-Mail
One by one, airlines that have announced bankruptcy filings, layoffs or other unsettling news in recent weeks have quickly followed up with e-mail dispatches to customers from executives. Online communication is an emerging way to deliver corporate messages to valued customers, unfiltered by the media and unhindered by the cumbersome process of sending printed direct mail. New Economy. C3.

Scientifically Priced Retail Goods
Using sophisticated systems from a handful of small but fast-growing technology companies, retailers like Saks and ShopKo are making price decisions more scientifically and less by gut instinct. And while this technology has been known to make merchants uncomfortable initially, senior executives are welcoming it more as they see the effects. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

I.B.M. Software Refreshes Scores
I.B.M. has been issued three patents related to technology that updates sports scores automatically on a desktop computer. The technology, which was released as a commercial software product in July, has applications that go beyond the proving ground of sports information, including online stock trading and auctions. Patents. C7.

Low-Tech 'Godzilla' Remains a Force
"Godzilla," the mythical, city-smashing title-creature of the 1954 Japanese film, has stomped across movie screens for nearly half a century and continues to draw millions of fans each year. But unlike "Star Wars," "Star Trek" and other serials that rely on digitized special effects, "Godzilla" still wows audiences with a low-tech approach. C6.

Working From Home in Manhattan
A neighborhood in Manhattan, known to the United States Census Bureau as Tract 187 in New York County, is one of a handful of areas where relatively large numbers of New Yorkers report working at home. Six hundred people, or 10.4 percent of the tract's working population, work at home, according to recently released data from the 2000 Census. Section B.

U.S. Markets and Banks Are Closed
Financial markets and banks in the United States are closed today in observance of Labor Day. They will reopen tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,663.50 down 209.46Nasdaq composite -- 1,314.85 down 65.7710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.13% down 0.11The euro -- $0.9817 up 0.0094The dollar -- 118.68 yen down 0.99

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); RETAILERS (86%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (85%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); AIRLINES (71%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); US LABOR DAY (69%); PATENTS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); NEW ECONOMY (64%); ONLINE TRADING (64%); SCANDALS (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



61 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Businessman vs. Newsman, All in One Person 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
William Dean Singleton is a man of precision when it comes to names, dollars and dates. He remembers when he bought The Fort Worth Press, the first large newspaper he acquired (Aug. 1, 1975). He remembers when it folded (Nov. 5, 1975), just over three months after he bought it. He remembers when, as the top executive of The Trenton Times, he upheld the firing of a reporter who had failed to file a news story consisting of an advertiser's news release verbatim, and instead added accurate details that wound up making the advertiser look bad (1982).
 It would be natural for him to remember when he founded the MediaNews Group, the company he serves as chief executive (1985). But he also remembers how many reporters lost their jobs when he bought The Berkshire Eagle in Western Massachusetts (5 of 40). 
 For all his attention to detail, he is not certain just when, exactly, he resolved that the MediaNews Group would be more than just the fastest-growing newspaper company of the last two decades. Since 1985, MediaNews has been buying as many newspapers as its credit lines would afford and stripping them down to produce the cash flow to underwrite the next purchase. But he remembers deciding, in 1999, that if he wanted to build a strong newspaper -- as opposed to just a large newspaper company -- he needed to get going. 
The question, then, is whether Mr. Singleton, known as a leading practitioner of bare-bones journalism in the 1980's, has really changed. 
For much of his career, he has bought, stripped down and sometimes closed newspapers with a Darwinian fervor, giving him a reputation as the industry's leading skinflint, and earning him the loathing of some journalists at newspapers that died under or after his ownership.
The question of the nature of Mr. Singleton's conversion has been raised since at least the beginning in 1999, when he declared a truce in the fierce battle of The Denver Post and his archrival, The Rocky Mountain News. MediaNews accepted $60 million from the rival's owner, E. W. Scripps, and entered into a joint operating agreement by which the two papers compete editorially but share revenue and business expenses. Three years and three editors later, The Denver Post's newsroom is growing stronger.
Time is an issue for Mr. Singleton, who at the age of 51 has multiple sclerosis, a degenerative nerve disease.
"I wanted to build a great newspaper," he said in a recent interview. "I was so afraid that the battle would go on so long that I wouldn't get the opportunity. I expect to live a long life, but I do have multiple sclerosis. I may not live a long life. I want to do it while I can do it."
Meanwhile, his flagship newspaper is pursuing scoops on local business powers like Qwest and ConAgra, and it is pushing to compete with The News on sports coverage, photography and local news, long areas that The News had dominated. After the attacks on Sept. 11, Mr. Singleton added $1 million to The Post's budget to send 15 journalists to Afghanistan and the Middle East.
Is the cost-conscious businessman, who says he laid aside romantic journalistic ambitions after the quick demise of The Forth Worth Press in 1975, ready -- and financially able -- to make journalism a priority?
Interviews with journalists, industry analysts and executives indicate that the longer it has been since someone has encountered Mr. Singleton, the less likely he is to believe that he has become a born-again convert to high-quality journalism. Instead, the old-timers tend to remember a defining remark by Mr. Singleton that 20 to 40 percent of newsroom staff in most family-owned newspapers was deadwood that needed cutting.
John Morton, a longtime industry analyst, believes that Mr. Singleton, a Texan who is the son of an oil-field worker, "was pretty much a bottom-line guy when he started."
"He's come to care more about journalism," Mr. Morton said. "He has come to realize that success is measured by circulation, and you're not going to get circulation by putting out a lousy product."
But John Mecklin, a former Houston Post reporter who is now the editor of The San Francisco Weekly, an alternative newspaper, and has not had any direct dealings with Mr. Singleton's newspapers for at least seven years, remembers that when Mr. Singleton bought The Houston Post, his approach was to hire 23-year-olds, cut staff and "tell them that writing good briefs is good journalism."
Mr. Singleton himself believes that it is not so much his ambitions that have changed as his financial status. "This is not some sudden revelation that I like great newspapers," he said. "I always did. My views on newspapering have never changed. My ability to afford it has."
What about The Trenton Times reporter who was fired for failing to accept an advertiser's news release as news? "I wouldn't do it again," Mr. Singleton said, adding that there should be "an eight-foot wall" separating the news and advertising departments.
In a three-hour interview, the two Mr. Singletons, the cost-cutting businessman and the news-obsessed newspaperman, jockeyed for the upper hand.
At one moment, he derided Jay T. Harris, the former publisher of The San Jose Mercury News, as "just another publisher who couldn't make his budget." Many journalists have praised Mr. Harris for quitting Knight Ridder last year over a demand tocut costs.
But at another moment, Mr. Singleton talked with animation about aggressive reporting by The York Dispatch in Pennsylvania and The Berkshire Eagle.
Those in Denver who watch Mr. Singleton closely say he is quite comfortable with his contradictory images. Michael Roberts, a reporter for the local alternative weekly, Westword, wrote in an wide-ranging article last year that Mr. Singleton "holds saints in high regard, but he's never claimed to be one." John Temple, the editor of The Rocky Mountain News, said in an interview, "Dean is a very passionate person. And he wants to make money."
Mr. Singleton may feel flush, but his corporate books indicate that he still carries enough debt to make many executives uncomfortable.
From the time of his 1983 purchase of The Gloucester County Times in New Jersey -- which was financed largely by his current business partner, Richard Scudder -- Mr. Singleton has used debt to build his company. The MediaNews Group now owns 46 daily newspapers and 81 nondaily newspapers in nine states from California and New Mexico to Massachusetts and Vermont, including The Los Angeles Daily News and a group of small daily papers east of San Francisco. It is the seventh-largest newspaper company in the country, as measured by total daily circulation; after Advance, it is the second-largest privately held newspaper company.
For years, especially in the recession of the early 1990's, Mr. Singleton lived on a razor's edge financially. 
In 1994, MediaNews's predecessor companies sold bonds worth about $90 million and were carrying about $225 million in additional debt -- about eight times the cash flow, a leverage ratio considered extremely high. Today, Joseph J. Lodovic IV, the company's president, says MediaNews's debt is about $955 million. Quarterly reports indicate probable cash flow for the fiscal year 2002 will be $150 to $160 million, giving it a leverage ratio of about seven.
Much of the recent debt has helped finance Mr. Singleton's two big purchases of the last two years. One was The Connecticut Post. The other, far more visible and controversial, was The Salt Lake Tribune. He took over The Tribune earlier this year after a complicated legal battle involving its owner, AT&T; the previous local family owners who wanted to regain control; and Mormon church officials who wanted to block them and had veto power over a potential sale.
It is clear that The Denver Post is Mr. Singleton's flagship and his first love. This is the paper that, when he bought it 15 years ago, had been hemorrhaging circulation after making a disastrously abrupt move from afternoon to morning publication.
Mr. Singleton has closed two major dailies -- The Fort Worth Press and The Houston Post. He also failed to revive The Dallas Times-Herald, which he sold a few years before it closed in 1991.He was determined to make The Denver Post work. He made himself The Post's publisher earlier this year. He also ousted Glenn Guzzo, the editor who had directed the locally admired coverage of the war against terrorism, in favor of Gregory Moore, the former managing editor of The Boston Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Company. 
Mr. Guzzo, a former editor from The Akron Beacon Journal, was not changing things or hiring fast enough for Mr. Singleton, according to people who knew of the two men's discussions. Mr. Moore, by contrast, is fast filling 20 or more vacancies, supporting the same kind of aggressive business coverage that Mr. Guzzo did and ruffling his newsroom by transferring the newspaper's highly popular, experienced religion writer to the obituary desk, saying all reporters should change beats every five years.
Mr. Moore is also working closely with Mr. Singleton, who has not abandoned his passion for local news in his pursuit of national or foreign glory.
" I want to drink fine wines for dinner, but I want bacon and eggs for breakfast," Mr. Singleton said. "If you haven't covered the community and done the bacon-and-eggs news, you've failed your reader."
Knowing that newspapers with strong reputations often rose to their positions under long-serving editors, like Ben Bradlee of The Washington Post, does Mr. Singleton plan to keep Mr. Moore around long enough to remake The Denver Post? Mr. Singleton calls Mr. Moore his "soulmate and partner," which seems a good omen for Mr. Moore's future longevity. 
Still, Mr. Singleton has never been known for patience. Mr. Moore spoke last week of his plans to improve The Post's national and regional coverage and its photography and investigative work. At the end, Mr. Moore was asked to name his biggest worry.
"Not having enough time to do everything I want," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 11, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Sept. 2 about William Dean Singleton, chief executive of the newspaper company MediaNews Group, misstated the ratio of the company's debt to its cash flow for its 2002 fiscal year. Based on estimated debt of $955 million and estimated cash flow of $150 million to $160 million, the ratio is between 5.9 and 6.3 -- not about 7.



GRAPHIC: Photo: William Dean Singleton, left, the chief executive of MediaNews, is working closely with the editor he hired for The Denver Post, Gregory Moore, right. (Barry Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (69%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (68%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (63%) NEWSPAPERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: DENVER POST CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MEDIANEWS GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; SINGLETON, WILLIAM DEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); COLORADO, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



62 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: California Budget Passes With Cuts and, Critics Contend, Smoke and Mirrors 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
A bitterly divided California legislature ended a 61-day stalemate early this morning, passing a budget intended to address a $24 billion deficit that is growing deeper by the month.
 Democratic leaders in the State Assembly won the needed four votes from Republicans by promising to slash spending while avoiding any significant tax increases. 
 Gov. Gray Davis praised the budget as a bipartisan compromise that protects vital services and imposes no major new tax burdens. Mr. Davis said today that he would sign the measure, but added that he expected to use his line-item veto power to eliminate what he considered excessive spending. 
Critics said the plan relies on illusory savings and accounting gimmickry that would worsen the state's troubles. The budget borrows against anticipated revenue from the national tobacco settlement, temporarily ends a business tax credit and restructures the state's bond debt. These one-time measures do little to eliminate the state's heavy reliance on income taxes and capital gains taxes, and still leave the treasury vulnerable to the vagaries of the stock market and the dot-com economy.
Nonetheless, Governor Davis declared himself largely satisfied with the budget, even though it passed two months after the constitutional deadline for enacting a budget for the fiscal year that began July 1.
"Last night, the legislature took a big step toward solving California's fiscal challenge," Mr. Davis said in a conference call with reporters this afternoon. "But there's no question that we have a long way to go."
The governor noted that the spending plan for 2002-3, at about $98 billion, would be smaller in absolute terms than last year's $100 billion budget, the first such decline since the recession of 1992-93.
He insisted there were no gimmicks in the budget, but said that California still had not devised a way to protect itself from the effects of falling stock markets. He noted that capital gains tax collections reached $17 billion in 2000, the high-water mark for the equity markets. This year, he projects state revenue of $6 billion to $7 billion from taxes on capital gains and the exercising of stock options.
"States that depend on the income tax, as do we, and put a high percentage of their tax base on wealthy taxpayers run the risk that declining stock markets will reduce their revenues substantially," Mr. Davis said.
The legislative deadlock was broken Saturday after four Republican members of the Democratic-controlled Assembly agreed to vote for the budget, giving the bill the 54 votes needed to meet the two-third's majority for enacting a budget.
Democrats got the deal by agreeing to drop an increase in fees for car registration and eliminating any new taxes on cigarettes. An earlier budget approved by the Democratic-controlled Senate would have raised almost $2 billion through those two taxes, but Republicans argued the taxes would place a disproportionate burden on poor and middle-income residents. The tobacco industry lobbied hard against the cigarette tax.
Instead, the Assembly decreed $7 billion in spending cuts that would require the elimination of thousands of state jobs and trim expenditures for schools and universities, prisons and other as-yet-unspecified state functions. 
"I would say the agreement traded a real tax increase for a variety of illusory savings," said Jean Ross of the California Budget Project, a nonpartisan research group. "They are raiding every cookie jar in the state and borrowing every way they can."
The deal moved forward late Friday, when Speaker Herbert J. Wesson Jr. and Assemblyman Dave Cox, the Republican leader, worked out a plan to secure the necessary Republican votes by eliminating most tax increases and promising new spending on infrastructure.
Mr. Wesson, who represents parts of central and west Los Angeles, said the deal reined in state spending and "goes a long way toward putting our financial train back on track."
Lawmakers adjourned for the year immediately after passing the budget, some hurling insults at one another and at Governor Davis as they left Sacramento to return to their districts to run for re-election. Very few legislative races are competitive, and Mr. Davis holds a sizeable lead over his Republican opponent, Bill Simon, giving little incentive for compromise, or even, at times, civility.

GRAPHIC: Photos: California Assembly members Rod Pacheco, left, and Sally Havice, center, worked into the morning on the state's budget. Assemblyman Darrell Steinberg was triumphant when the measure, two months late, passed. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); VETO (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



63 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Workers Are Angry and Fearful This Labor Day 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
With longshoremen, janitors and Boeing employees threatening major strikes and employees reeling from corporate scandals and rising unemployment, the mood among American workers has turned anxious and even angry this Labor Day.
 Unions are threatening walkouts by 10,500 longshoremen, 10,000 Boston janitors and 25,000 Boeing employees for reasons that are worrying American workers in general: fast-rising health care costs, slower wage growth and fears about job security. 
 Baseball players have settled their labor dispute, but dockworkers are still warning that they may close all West Coast ports because they fear that new technologies will cause layoffs. Boeing workers in Kansas, Oregon and Washington State will soon vote on whether to strike because Boeing is moving jobs overseas and wants them to contribute more toward their health care. In Boston, janitors at hundreds of buildings are threatening to strike, and in Chicago, 7,000 hotel workers have authorized a walkout -- saying, in both cases, that they want improved health coverage and wages high enough to support their families. 
Economists say the mood has soured among American workers, union and nonunion, because wages are stagnating and unemployment has climbed to almost 6 percent, the highest level in eight years. The number of private-sector jobs is down nearly 2 percent from early 2001, while layoffs in the recent recession were unusually large for women and college graduates compared with past recessions. 
"There is high unemployment, and it will remain that way for a while," said Lawrence Mishel, the president of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group. "Although it may have looked like a shallow recession, for some work force groups it's not so shallow."
In its new study, "The State of Working America," the institute found that wages were growing at their slowest level since 1995 and that the income gap between the richest Americans and everybody else was widening again, after narrowing in the late 1990's. 
Large-scale layoffs occurred after Sept. 11 in many industries, most notably airlines, hotels and financial services. But the fiercest anger about layoffs stems from the dismissals at Enron and other scandal-plagued companies. Enron laid off 4,200 workers, and WorldCom 17,000.
"For years I've heard people talk about distrust of their employers, but something new is happening," said John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "People are really fed up and furious with corporate America."
A survey of 900 workers, union and nonunion, by Peter D. Hart Research Associates, found that 58 percent were dissatisfied with the state of the economy, up from 34 percent in early 2001. The poll, released on Thursday, also found that 39 percent had negative feelings toward corporations, and 30 percent had positive feelings, a sharp reversal from January 2001, when 42 percent reported positive feelings toward corporations and 25 percent said they had negative feelings. The margin of error was plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.
In the survey, commissioned by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., 60 percent of workers said their employers fell short in balancing concerns about employees with concerns about profits.
For organized labor, all this anxiety and anger has produced some good news: Americans have warmed up to the idea of joining unions. The Hart poll found that 50 percent of nonunion workers said they would vote to join a union if they could, the highest level in two decades, up from 42 percent last year and up from 30 percent in the early 1980's. The number who said they would vote against unionizing fell to 43 percent, from 65 percent two decades ago.
Whether labor unions can translate these sentiments into increased membership is unclear. Despite Mr. Sweeney's efforts to prod the nation's unions to do far more organizing, overall union membership has remained flat over the last decade.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O., which represents 13 million union members, plans to take the offensive this fall against President Bush and members of Congress whom the federation views as having done little to support labor. Mr. Sweeney was in Minnesota this weekend to campaign for Senator Paul Wellstone, a Democrat regarded by the federation as a champion of labor, who faces a tough re-election battle.
"The Bush administration has been the worst for working families in decades," Mr. Sweeney said. "The Bush administration as well as Congress have refused to add a prescription drug benefit to Medicare, and they have given a trillion-dollar tax cut to the wealthiest Americans."
He criticized Mr. Bush and most Republicans for approving new trade legislation that provides few safeguards for workers and for repealing rules intended to protect workers, like secretaries and meat packers, from repetitive-motion injuries. 
Mr. Sweeney's political efforts may be undercut by several unions, most notably the carpenters' and the Teamsters, who have strengthened ties with Mr. Bush and Republicans, backing them on numerous issues, including oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Those unions wanted to develop influence with Republicans and feared that the Democrats had been taking labor for granted.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said, "There's a real split in the labor community, with an increasing number of rank-and-file workers proud to support the president, and leaders of some labor groups also showing signs of support for the president."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sofia Mariano cheered on Saturday at a meeting of a janitors' union threatening to strike in Boston. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); RECESSION (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); SCANDALS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BASEBALL (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); LIBERALISM (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; STRIKES; ORGANIZED LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



64 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2000 words

HEADLINE: Many Minds, Each Envisioning a Different 9/11 Memorial 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
No one could expect the memorialization of the murder of more than 3,000 people to proceed without controversy. No significant memorial has avoided it, and the famous tendency of New Yorkers to do nothing without a fight makes it unlikely here.
 But in planning for a memorial in New York City to the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks at the World Trade Center and elsewhere, a struggle for control of the process has laid bare a tangle of unending grief, cultural chasms, distrust of government and pure and simple rage among a host of disparate groups. Residents of Lower Manhattan, business owners, architects, commuters, historians and relatives of the dead are vociferously making their views known. 
 Yet nearly a year after the attacks, it is still not clear who will have to resolve these conflicting demands, let alone when a decision is likely to be made. 
In general, the question of how much acreage the memorial will cover, what it will look like and what additional elements -- like a museum, concert hall or cultural center -- it will include will fall to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey has also demanded a role. But precisely who will make which decisions, and how, remains to be determined.
Some victims' relatives want the memorial to be centered on the spots where the twin towers stood, known as the footprints. Others are still clamoring for the entire 16-acre site. Residents want some streets to run through the site, notwithstanding those who think a memorial requires the entire area to include pedestrian-only pathways. Commuters and some business owners want the PATH station underground in the middle of the site to remain where it is, which would likely be close to a memorial; but other business owners and developers would benefit if it were moved farther east to Church Street or near Broadway.
"The artists and designers who will work on the site are being asked to make room for competing or mutually exclusive agendas," said James E. Young, the chairman of the department of Judaic and Near Eastern Studies at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. 
"The site itself will be a negotiated site," said Dr. Young, who has written extensively about efforts in Germany and elsewhere to construct memorials to victims of the Holocaust. "That is why people need to be patient with this as a process."
Compounding the confusion is that after nearly a year of focusing on the site's commercial development while leaving questions about a memorial to a small advisory group, officials involved in the rebuilding are scrambling to assure everyone that the memorial is not merely an afterthought.
While members of the various interest groups have spent much of the last six months discussing their goals, some of their conflicts did not emerge into full view until Aug. 19, when the groups met with one another for the first time.
Residents of downtown neighborhoods have not been shy about voicing their largest fear: that constant references to "hallowed ground" by family members means that a memorial will most of all resemble a cemetery. 
"The people who live down here are pioneers," said Liz Berger, a downtown resident who serves on one of the development corporation's advisory councils. Many residents moved in long before the area had decent services or even decent apartments, she said, adding: "We are going to be living in the memorial. We want to figure out how to remain in a living place."
While most family members of the victims want open space dedicated as a memorial, residents want land used for parks, where greenmarkets can be set up and children can play without people fearing that the feelings of the bereaved are being trampled upon.
Many people, from the mayor to community advocates, also want housing to be built at the site, and many of those want it to be affordable for low- or middle-income residents. But many business owners and developers have shown little or no interest in seeing anything but high-price housing near the site or elsewhere downtown. Wealthier residents mean a higher scale of retail stores and higher rents. 
Some architects and artists, meanwhile, have cringed at an initial outline of possible elements for a memorial drafted by a families' advisory council. It includes an eternal flame, a tomb for unidentified remains, the damaged sculpture formerly in the trade center plaza, and a wall bearing the names of the victims of the trade center attacks of 1993 and Sept. 11, as well as those killed in Washington and Pennsylvania.
The families' council has also called for the construction of a visitors' information center, a museum and learning center, a children's memorial center, transportation sites specific to the memorial, meeting areas and a separate center at the memorial for families of victims, with restricted access.
Then there is the question of what, exactly, should be considered hallowed ground. Nearly all family members of trade center victims said they wanted the footprints of the twin towers to be preserved. For some, however, that means building nothing in those twin one-acre squares all the way down to the bedrock -- 70 feet below ground -- even though the towers did not descend that far and much of the below-ground area included parking areas, train stations and technical shops.
Other family members want the preserved area to include the footprint of the Marriott Hotel, where some people were also killed, while others want to preserve the entire nine-acre sub-basement area where most debris from the towers fell, because victims' remains were found throughout.
"Even among the families there is some difference of opinion as to what is sacred ground," said Christy Ferer, whose husband was killed at the trade center. Speaking at the Aug. 19 meeting for some but certainly not all of the families, she added, "We don't feel that we should sacrifice the transportation infrastructure or jeopardize the economic engine that could exist" below ground.
There also is evident disagreement among family members on just what is being memorialized. 
To guide the process, the families' advisory council adopted a mission statement. Among the principles laid out were "our resolve to preserve an open, free and democratic society," and a "quest to end hatred, ignorance, intolerance and strife, and promote peace." 
It is unclear, though, how closely some family members want to follow those guidelines. After a discussion of the mission statement at the Aug. 19 meeting, a member of the advisory council, Lee Ielpi, a retired firefighter whose son was killed at the trade center, said he was "appalled" by the street vendors selling Sept. 11 memorabilia at ground zero. 
"I don't care about their rights and civil liberties and all that," said Mr. Ielpi, who asked the group to support his effort to have the vendors removed. 
Similar comments followed at community meetings in Staten Island and the Bronx. At one meeting, after officials talked of an international competition to attract the world's finest minds to design a memorial, the mother of a trade center victim suggested that foreigners were not welcome.
"I don't want to have to go outside the United States to get designs," said Ginger Petrocelli, a Staten Island resident whose son died in the attack. "I taught my children not to be prejudiced, but this is a very different world we're living in. I'm sad to say that."
More complex issues almost certainly will provoke further rancor. Many constituents have talked about the importance of incorporating a memorial museum and learning center into the site. 
But people who have studied memorial efforts in the United States and in foreign countries note that the objectivity required of museums could make such an effort particularly difficult at the site of a memorial to victims of a terrorist attack.
Would such a museum, for example, address reasons for the trade center attack, include a picture of Osama bin Laden, or present the beliefs of the Wahabi sect of Islam, which he is said to embrace?
"All of these questions become a sort of razor's edge at these kinds of sites," said Edward T. Linenthal, author of "The Unfinished Bombing: Oklahoma City in American Memory," an account of that city's memorial process.
The process is made more difficult by the fact that the event being memorialized is, in a way, still evolving, Dr. Linenthal said. The war on terrorism is unfinished, so placing the attacks on the trade center and the Pentagon in a historical context is difficult.
Guiding the project's evolution will fall to Anita F. Contini, who was recently hired by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to oversee the memorial planning. From 1986 to 1999, Ms. Contini was a vice president and artistic director of the World Financial Center, and more recently was first vice president for global sponsorships and client events marketing at Merrill Lynch. 
She has set an aggressive deadline, saying she believes that enough will be known about the location and acreage of a memorial by the end of the year to allow an international design competition to be completed by the second anniversary of the attacks.
The schedule appears to be ambitious, given the experience in Oklahoma City, where it took two years from the establishment of a memorial task force for the selection of a design. 
The date, however, is not inviolate. "I wanted to have a date out there, because if we don't we're not going to go anywhere," Ms. Contini said. "It might take longer, and that is fine."

CHRONOLOGY
A Road to Remembrance In Oklahoma City

APRIL 19, 1995 -- A bomb explodes outside the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168 people.

EARLY JUNE -- Mayor Ronald J. Norick appoints a well-known local lawyer, Robert M. Johnson, to organize and direct a community-based task force to oversee the memorial process.

JULY -- A memorial task force made up of 10 operating committees, an advisory committee of 160 people, a coordinating committee and a volunteer executive director is established.

REMAINDER OF 1995 -- Public meetings are held to discuss what visitors to the memorial should "think, feel or experience." Subcommittee for design solicitation studies other memorials and design procedures.

JAN. 10, 1996 -- Consultant to design subcommittee delivers "operational plan" for a national design competition, with entries to be judged by professionals and community members providing only advisory opinions.

JAN. 18, 1996 -- Subcommittee fires design consultant, citing differences over the level of community involvement in the process.

MARCH 1996 -- Committee adopts mission statement, "shaping the meaning and guiding the design and development of the memorial."

SUMMER 1996 -- Discussions over whether Fifth Street, where the truck with the bomb was parked, will be closed to traffic and become part of the memorial. Also, discussions over who is to be listed as victims and as survivors.

AUGUST-SEPTEMBER 1996 -- City Planning Commission votes 5 to 3 to close Fifth Street.

NOV. 15, 1996 -- Memorial competition is announced.

JANUARY 1997 -- City assembles exhibition on the events of April 19, 1995, for viewing by design competitors.

MARCH 20, 1997 -- Design boards are displayed publicly. More than 15,000 people visit.

MARCH 25-26, 1997 -- Five designs are selected, from which final design will be chosen.

JUNE 23-24, 1997 -- Selection committee meets to choose winning design, selecting Torrey and Hans-Ekkehard Butzer's model of a field of 168 empty chairs set adjacent to and between representations of two points in time, those immediately preceding and following the moment of the bombing.

OCT. 25, 1998 -- Groundbreaking ceremony for memorial is held.

APRIL 19, 2000 -- Oklahoma City National Memorial is dedicated.

(Source: "The Unfinished Bombing: Oklahoma City in American Memory," by Edward T. Linenthal Oxford University Press, 2001 )

GRAPHIC: Photos: At ground zero, the first panel of a viewing wall planned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to allow visitors a broader view of the rebuilding work. (Associated Press)(pg. B1); (Librado Romero/The New York Times; Ruth Fremson/The New York Times, bottom)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); HOLOCAUST (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (66%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; MURRAH, ALFRED P, FEDERAL BUILDING (OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (51%) NEW YORK CITY; OKLAHOMA CITY (OKLA)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



65 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Newburgh Journal; 
Melee Upstate Is Sign of Urban Woes

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEWBURGH, N.Y., Aug. 30 

 BODY:
When fighting broke out on Aug. 25 at Broadway and Dubois Street, word spread quickly among the many people whiling away the warm summer night on sidewalks and street corners. 
 The fracas began, the police said, when someone threw a bottle or a brick at a car. It escalated after the driver, a 33-year-old woman, got out to confront her attackers. 
 By the time officers arrived, an estimated 150 to 200 people were battling with sticks, knives and bottles. The Newburgh Police Department called for help from the departments in three neighboring towns and then the State Police. 
The crowd dispersed after about a half-hour, officials said. Several people sought treatment at St. Luke's Hospital nearby, but no one was seriously hurt, the police said. Although the local news media described the incident as a riot, residents say it was a small conflict that drew many spectators.
Yet few in this declining city on the west bank of the Hudson expressed surprise at the outbreak of violence. 
"You can get a sense of when something's going to go off here," Mayor Andrew Marino said. "The heat of the night brings out people. The numbers on the corners grow. Once the numbers increase, you can bet there's going to be some kind of incident."
The police, who are still investigating the melee, note that gang violence has been a major contributor to crime in the area.
"Newburgh is an inner-city atmosphere," Deputy Police Chief Michael D. Ferrara said. "Any problem that any city has, we have a smaller version."
There were seven homicides in the city last year and four so far this year, relatively high numbers for a city of 28,000 people. 
Late last month, five men, thought by the police to be gang members, were shot on a block just south of Broadway, prompting State Assemblyman Thomas Kirwan to call for help from the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. Mr. Kirwan said many local gang members were illegal aliens from Mexico. 
Mayor Marino said that he did not agree with Mr. Kirwan's decision to seek assistance from the agency, but that he has considered calling for a National Guard presence in the neighborhoods where gang activity is most prevalent. "We can't afford to let bullets fly and people die because of gang warfare," he said.
Mr. Kirwan dismissed the idea of calling on the National Guard. "We're not in a state of insurrection," he said. "You don't need an army patrolling the streets. You need trained cops."
One point on which the police, politicians and many residents agree is the need for more law enforcement. The city has lost officers to better-paying departments in communities with lower crime rates, and officials say they lack the money to properly staff the department. This year alone, the department has lost 10 officers; starting salary in Newburgh is about $31,000, which is about $10,000 less than an officer might get in Rockland and Westchester Counties, Chief Ferrara said.
"This is getting beyond the scope of the local police department," Mr. Kirwan said. The mayor agreed, describing crime in the city as nearing a crisis point. 
For some, recent violence in the city's poorest neighborhoods echoes the 1970's, when Newburgh experienced disturbances in the streets and in the schools. At the time, the city's population had declined to about 25,000 from a peak of nearly 35,000 in the 1950's, as many white residents moved to surrounding towns and urban renewal forced many black residents from their homes. 
Hispanic and African-American residents complained then of underrepresentation in the police department and in government, a situation that still exists.
"The relationship between blacks and the police here has never been good," said the Rev. Coleman Briggs, pastor of New Hope Baptist Church. "That's always been a problem and it continues to be." 
The 2000 census showed that 36 percent of Newburgh's population is black and 36 percent Hispanic. Of the 90 police officers, 3 are African-American and 8 are Hispanic, Chief Ferrara said. 
The 1970's, though, were a different era for Newburgh in at least one important respect, Mayor Marino noted. "Those problems were a place in time when there were a lot of racial issues and tensions," he said. "Those times have changed. This is a now very diverse community."
Barriers have been broken. Mr. Briggs was the first African-American elected to the school board, in 1972. Audrey Carey, also African-American, served two terms as mayor before being defeated in 1999.
In some respects, the odds against residents in the poorest neighborhoods have worsened since the difficult 1970's, Ms. Carey said. Factories in the area have closed, with thousands of jobs lost. And as unemployment and crime have mounted, so has apathy among youths, she said.
"They're unemployed or underemployed, and they seem resolved to destitution," she said. "They see no future for themselves."
Growth in the surrounding towns in Orange County and along the riverfront has had little impact on the city's neighborhoods, residents and business owners agree.
"People don't view the waterfront as Newburgh," said John Westerman, owner of Ace Drugs, near the site of the recent fighting. "The city of Newburgh is here and that waterfront is something else."
Restaurants and bars have opened along the river, but many businesses just a few blocks away on Broadway, once a major marketplace, are boarded up. Of the businesses that remain, bodegas, delicatessens and take-out restaurants predominate.
But turning a profit is a challenge. "This is no business," said Ismael Ortiz, owner of Mi Casa Restaurant on Broadway. "People are poor. They've got no dollar to buy even a chicken leg."
The neighborhood is far from moribund. During the day, boys play basketball in the streets, neighbors sit together on sidewalks or in vacant lots, and mothers lean from upstairs windows, minding children who play on the steps below.
Officials say they're making strides toward attracting employers to renovated manufacturing and retail space. Mr. Briggs said he has noticed signs that unemployment in Newburgh, typically twice that of the county overall, is decreasing.
But Mr. Ortiz, 69, longs for the city he found when he arrived as a teenager from Puerto Rico in 1952. 
"In those days, you could sleep in the street, it was so safe," he said. "Now it's different. It's bad."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Andrew Marino oversees Newburgh, where a fight involving 150 to 200 people took place on a street on Aug. 25. At right, from left, Pierre Jones, Trevor Peterson and Thomas King near the scene of the incident. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times) Map of New York highlights Newburgh: Newburgh, a city of 28,000, faces high crime and jobless rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); RIOTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); GANGS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); ARMIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); HOMICIDE (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (61%); POLITICS (60%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: MARINO, ANDREW (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEWBURGH (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



66 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: LAID-OFF WORKERS SWELLING THE COST OF DISABILITY PAY 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Millions of low-skilled workers have turned to federal disability pay as a refuge from layoffs in recent years, doubling the benefit's cost and, with little notice, making it by far the government's biggest income-support program. 
 Most of those qualifying for the benefits, part of the Social Security system, never got past high school and held jobs like factory worker, waitress, store clerk, laborer or health care aide. Their numbers have grown to 5.42 million today from 3 million in 1990, swelling the program's costs to $60 billion last year. That far surpasses unemployment insurance or food stamps or any other similar program. 
 "Show me a high school dropout, particularly a male, who is over the age of 40 and is not working and there is a 40 to 45 percent chance that he is on Social Security disability insurance," said David H. Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
It is not that disabling injuries are occurring more frequently or that more people are cheating a system that requires considerable evidence to prove disability. Research by a number of economists indicates that the growing numbers signal instead a reliance on disability benefits by low-end workers who had ignored their ailments as long as their limited skills brought them steady employment. Some who would have gone on welfare now apply for disability pay instead.
"When you are a person who has lost a job, and you can't find another and you are home sitting on the couch," said Morley White, an administrative law judge in Cleveland who rules on disability claims, "you become preoccupied with ailments that do qualify in many cases as legal disability but while you were working did not come into your mind." 
Neither Congress nor the White House has challenged the skyrocketing cost of disability insurance, which will go up an additional $9 billion this year, reaching $69 billion, the Social Security Administration estimates. By comparison, the agency expects to pay out $382 billion in traditional old-age pensions in 2002, financing both pensions and disability payments through the same payroll tax. The debate on the financial health of Social Security has focused on the much larger pension system.
"There was always a bigger issue in the news to distract us and disability just crept up on us," said Kevin M. Murphy, a University of Chicago economist. "It is the tortoise in the tortoise and hare story."
The surge in the disability rolls started with the early 1990's recession, and the numbers climbed steadily as layoffs became common, even in the boom years of the late 90's. Hard times over the last 18 months produced another surge in the disability rolls, which grew by nearly 400,000 people in that period, unevenly across the country. State officials process the disability claims, acting as agents for Social Security, and some states have been more generous than others.
"In tough times, there is a tendency at the state level to cut people a little slack," said Charles A. Jeszeck, a labor economist at the General Accounting Office.
The rising numbers of people on disability take some of the gloss off the prosperity of the late 1990's. Unemployment fell and in the tight labor markets jobs went begging, even at the low-paying end. But the Labor Department counts as unemployed only those people actively seeking new jobs. When people stop looking and drop out, including people who go on the disability rolls, they no longer count as unemployed.
Those dropouts surged in number in the late 1990's. There were so many that if they had been counted as unemployed, the unemployment rate would have been higher, perhaps by as much as half a percentage point, according to new research by Dr. Autor and Mark Duggan, a University of Chicago economist.
Not all of the dropouts applied for disability pay, of course, but many of them did, Dr. Murphy found in a study he did with Robert H. Topel, also a Chicago economist, and Chinhui Juhn of the University of Houston. "More than 40 percent of the growth in nonparticipation is associated with an increase in men claiming to be ill or disabled," the three wrote in a recently published paper.
The 5.42 million people on disability pay, receiving $819 a month on average, is equal to 4 percent of those who hold jobs today. That increased from 2.5 percent in 1990, after barely rising at all in the 1980's, although Congress broadened the definition of disability and made proving it easier in 1984. It became particularly easier in the cases of back trouble and mental health problems, which can now include depression, manic behavior and other "mood disorders." Back trouble and mental stress are the two most cited ailments in disability awards. 
"You have to be basically unable to function in a working environment," Dr. Autor said about the broader guidelines. "Before 1984, you had to have a specific qualifying ailment, like schizophrenia or a broken back."
Seventy-five percent of those on disability have a high school diploma or less education, the Social Security Administration reports. Their limited skills mean they are often still without a job five months after being laid off -- the minimum time required to file for disability pay. Magnifying the problem, the low skilled find themselves mostly holding jobs that require physical exertion, Judge White said, and any ailment becomes an obstacle to landing the next job. So they turn to disability.
"I think that people who are better educated with transferable skills and other opportunities do not have to come before me to claim disability," the judge added.
Gregory Jordan, a 51-year-old former dock worker in Long Beach, Calif., is certainly familiar with the disability appeals system. He has just started to receive a $560 monthly disability check, five years after suffering the injury that disabled him. On a windy day on the docks in April 1997, a rear door of a tractor-trailer swung into Mr. Jordan's back. 
"I completely blew a disk out," Mr. Jordan said, explaining that he had gone back to work after the accident and had continued on the job until Christmas, when the pain finally forced him into a hospital and he learned the extent of his injury. Workmen's compensation payments soon started, and they will continue alongside the disability checks. Like old-age pensions, disability pay is based on former earnings and not on need, as welfare is.
In telling his story to a reporter, Mr. Jordan recounted the case he made to disability officials to justify his claim: six back operations, constant use of pain killers, nerve damage affecting his arms, hands and legs. With only a high school education, his opportunities away from the docks in work that did not require physical exertion were limited. Still, disability evaluators, following Social Security guidelines, at first determined that jobs were available commensurate with his skills.
"They told me I could work at telemarketing or sitting at a desk all day answering telephones," Mr. Jordan said.
Like so many others, Mr. Jordan took his case to an administrative law judge. Although Social Security disability is a federal program, most of the states provide the judges who rule on appeals, often reversing an earlier denial. About 40 percent of all disability awards come on appeal, actuarial studies have found. 
"No employer is going to hire me and take on the liability that I represent," Mr. Jordan said. "I can't stand very long, I can't sit very long. If I go anywhere I have to use a wheelchair."
Sitting or standing: those are crucial in judging whether a claimant, particularly one with little education, can "engage in a substantial gainful activity." If the person can demonstrate that because of an ailment or the pain it produces, he or she can no longer sit for six hours in an eight-hour day or stand for at least two, then that person is deemed disabled.
"Pain is the most argued thing in disability cases," Judge White said, adding that "98 percent of the people who come before me truly believe they are disabled." 
No one disputes that the disability rolls are swelling. But the reasons offered vary. Social Security officials attribute the rise to the large number of aging baby boomers. In addition, many women have gone to work, thus becoming eligible for benefits. The rules require a disability applicant to have held a paid job for a total of 5 of the previous 10 years and to have earned wages for 25 percent of the time since age 22. The earnings in these years then become the basis for calculating disability. 
Those explanations are challenged by some economists and policy makers. Despite the baby boomers, the average age of people on disability has fallen, they note. They argue that younger people increasingly qualify on the ground of mental illness. With the average age falling, the disabled are remaining on the rolls longer, and that has swelled the numbers. Congress helped in this process by making it harder for Social Security officials to declare people cured and no longer eligible for disability. 
"They now have to present compelling evidence of an improvement in health," Dr. Autor at M.I.T. said. 
There are other explanations. Lawyers, for example, increasingly help applicants with their claims, earning fees if the claims are awarded. The disability payments themselves have been rising at a faster rate than the pay of most low-end workers, gradually making paid employment less attractive for the unskilled, said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard University labor economist. 
There's another lure, particularly for the unskilled who often work without company-paid health insurance. Two years after the disability checks begin to arrive, Medicare coverage kicks in free.
Cost-cutting proposals are beginning to appear. Douglas Besharov, a scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute, for example, would make modern drugs available at little or no cost to the mentality ill on disability so they could work again, thus cutting the rolls. But he sees little chance of change now.
"This is the wrong election cycle to talk about cutting back anything," he said. "I think the lesson of the last year is that the Democrats want to paint the Republicans as mean and the Republicans are willing to spend tens of billions of dollars to avoid being called mean."
One approach to trimming the rolls that might not be dismissed as mean spirited is a proposal by Kenneth S. Apfel, a commissioner of Social Security in the Clinton years, to combine disability pay with retraining and part-time work. 
"It would help the large number of people in their late 50's who have become obsolete workers and have some medical condition," said Mr. Apfel. "It would give them a bridge to retirement at age 65 when they are shifted anyway from disability pay to regular pensions."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Monday about the rising number of workers receiving federal disability pay misstated the selection process for administrative law judges, who rule on disability appeals. They are federal employees hired from a register maintained by the Office of Personnel Management; they are not provided by the states.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "On Disability"The number of workers receiving disability payments has climbed since 1990. Chart shows number of workers receiving disability payments and percentage of the work force from 1990 through July 2002. (Source: Social Security Administration)(pg. A1) Chart: "Help for the Unskilled"Payments for disability make up an increasingly larger share of all Social Security payments. The steepest increases have been among less educated workers. (pg. A1) SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS 1990DISABILITY: $24.8 billionOLD-AGE PENSIONS: $223.0 billion 2001DISABILITY: $59.6 billionOLD-AGE PENSIONS: $372.4 billion DISABILITY RECIPIENTS PER 1,000 ADULTS Graph compares percentages of high-school dropouts between the ages of 25-39, 40-54, and 55-64 for 1984 and 1999. HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES WITH AT LEAST SOME COLLEGE Graph compares percentages between the ages of 25-39, 40-54, and 55-64 for 1984 and 1999. (Sources: Social Security Administration; David H. Autor of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Mark Duggan of the University of Chicago)(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (69%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (58%); JUDGES (50%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



67 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Judges Seek to Ban Secret Settlements In South Carolina 

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK 

 BODY:
South Carolina's 10 active federal trial judges have unanimously voted to ban secret legal settlements, saying such agreements have made the courts complicit in hiding the truth about hazardous products, inept doctors and sexually abusive priests.
 "Here is a rare opportunity for our court to do the right thing," Chief Judge Joseph F. Anderson Jr. of United States District Court wrote to his colleagues, "and take the lead nationally in a time when the Arthur Andersen/Enron/Catholic priest controversies are undermining public confidence in our institutions and causing a growing suspicion of things that are kept secret by public bodies." 
 If the court formally adopts the rule, after a public comment period that ends Sept. 30, it will be the strictest ban on secrecy in settlements in the federal courts. Mary Squiers, who tracks individual federal courts' rules for the United States Judicial Conference, said only Michigan had a similar rule, which unseals secret settlements after two years. The conference is the administrative body for federal courts. 
Judge Anderson said the new rule might save lives.
"Some of the early Firestone tire cases were settled with court-ordered secrecy agreements that kept the Firestone tire problem from coming to light until many years later," he wrote. "Arguably, some lives were lost because judges signed secrecy agreements regarding Firestone tire problems."
Lawyers say the proposal, which was widely discussed at the American Bar Association's conference in Washington last month, is likely to be influential in other federal courts and in state courts, which often follow federal practice in procedural matters. In South Carolina, the state's chief justice has expressed great interest in the proposal.
The Catholic Church scandals are one reason for a renewed interest in the topic of secrecy in the courts, legal experts say.
"All reactions are going to be affected by the bureaucratic cover-your-cassock responses of the church hierarchy," said Edward H. Cooper, a law professor at the University of Michigan.
But some legal experts and industry groups say the blanket rule is unwise.
"The judges of South Carolina, God bless them, have not evaluated the costs of what they are proposing," said Arthur Miller, a law professor at Harvard and an expert in civil procedure. He said the ban on secret settlements would discourage people from filing suits and settling them, and threaten personal privacy and trade secrets.
Joyce E. Kraeger, a staff lawyer at the Alliance of American Insurers, said the current system, in which judges have discretion to approve sealed settlements or not, worked fine. "There shouldn't be a one-size-fits-all approach," Ms. Kraeger said.
Jeffrey A. Newman, a lawyer in Massachusetts who represents people who say they were abused by Catholic priests, praised the South Carolina proposal. Mr. Newman said he regretted having participated in secret settlements in some early abuse cases. "It was a terrible mistake," he said, "and I think people were harmed by it."
Mr. Newman said a rule banning secret settlements, combined with the Internet, would create a powerful tool for lawyers seeking information on patterns of wrongful conduct. 
The impact of such a ban could be limited, however, if adopted only by federal courts. Most personal injury and product liability cases, and almost all claims of sexual abuse by clergy, are litigated in state courts.
Several states have laws and rules that limit secret settlements, typically in cases involving public safety. Florida, for instance, forbids court orders that have the effect of "concealing a public hazard." 
Experts say many of those limits are difficult to enforce, particularly when every party to a case is urging the judge to approve a settlement. Indeed, Judge Anderson's colleagues rejected his proposal, which was limited to matters of public health and safety, in favor of a blanket ban.
The federal proposal in South Carolina has caught the attention of Jean Toal, the chief justice of the South Carolina Supreme Court. Chief Justice Toal said that she would await the formal adoption of the rule before making her own proposal, but that the issue was important and timely.
"I'm very intrigued about this," she said, noting that some of her interest arose from "recent claims involving pedophilia and sealed cases." Judge Anderson and Chief Justice Toal noted that a Columbia, S.C., newspaper, The State, had spurred their interest in the issue by publishing a series of articles on secret settlements by doctors repeatedly accused of medical malpractice.
Even under the South Carolina proposal, the settlement amount and the requirement that parties keep quiet could be placed in a private contract not filed with the court. If the contract were violated, a new lawsuit would be required to seek redress. A court-approved settlement, on the other hand, can be enforced by returning to the original judge for a contempt order.
"If they don't want the might and majesty of the court system to enforce their settlement, that's one thing," Chief Justice Toal said. "Sealing the economic terms of the settlement is only one part of it. We're often talking about sealing the entire public record of the case."
Opponents of the proposal argue that secrecy encourages settlements, which they say are desirable given limited court resources.
Judge Anderson told his colleagues that their court, at least, had available capacity. He wrote that the court had disposed of 3,856 civil cases in the previous 12 months, which included only 35 cases tried to a verdict.
"If the rule change I propose were enacted and it did result in two or three more jury trials per judge per year (which is far from certain)," Judge Anderson wrote, "I think we could handle the increased workload with little problem."
Robert A. Clifford, a Chicago lawyer who typically represents plaintiffs, scoffed at the notion that defendants would not settle without secrecy provisions, saying the alternative to a public settlement was a far more public trial.
"The undeniable fact is that the reason they want secrecy is so victim No. 2 does not find out what victim No. 1 got," Mr. Clifford said.
Ms. Kraeger, of the insurers alliance, did not dispute that. "Making that information widely known could have the effect of driving up litigation costs," she said.
Professor Miller emphasized that plaintiffs might not want to have their new wealth made public.
"There is a right not to enable every neighbor and business associate to know what you got," he said. "Would you want to receive calls from telemarketers who discover that you just got $1 million?"
In a forthcoming article in The Hofstra Law Review prompted by settlements in sexual abuse cases involving clergy, Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New York University, argues that confidentiality provisions that forbid victims to talk about their experiences amount to obstruction of justice and violate ethical rules governing lawyers.
Professor Gillers, though, would exclude settlement amounts, trade secrets and private information from any requirement that settlements be made public.
Judge Anderson was most concerned with the selling of secrecy as a commodity, he said in an interview. He recalled being told by a plaintiff's lawyer that the lawyer had obtained additional money for his client in exchange for the promise of secrecy.
"That's what really lit my fuse," the judge said. "It meant that secrecy was something bought and sold right under a judge's nose."

GRAPHIC: Photo: South Carolina's federal trial judges have voted to ban secret legal settlements. Chief Judge Joseph F. Anderson Jr. (front row, second from right) calls the vote an "opportunity for our court to do the right thing." (United States District Court)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SCANDALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (75%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TIRES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (55%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (55%)

PERSON: LIPTAK, ADAM; ANDERSON, JOSEPH F JR (CHIEF JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) SOUTH CAROLINA; MICHIGAN

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



68 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Winning Is Cheap and Easy for Oakland A's

BYLINE:  By JOE LAPOINTE 

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In the bright sunshine, with 37,676 fans chanting, cheering and pleading, the Athletics' Miguel Tejada hit a three-run home run in the bottom of the ninth inning today as Oakland rallied to beat the Minnesota Twins, 7-5, and extend baseball's best winning streak since 1953.
 Despite their dreary surroundings and their financial status, often playing at home in a half-empty stadium, the A's have managed to win 18 consecutive games, breaking the franchise record set by Connie Mack's 1931 team (when the franchise was in Philadelphia) and becoming the best team in the American League West and the hottest team in the major leagues. 
 With a payroll that is less than a third of the Yankees', the A's seem to contradict the argument of baseball owners who insist that a tax on high payrolls and increased revenue sharing are necessary to establish competitive balance. 
The A's owner, Steve Schott, watched from his box today, interrupting a discussion of baseball finance to hail a play by Tejada at shortstop. In analyzing the collective bargaining agreement that averted a strike on Friday, Schott said he was surprised to learn that teams would no longer receive first-round choices in the amateur draft as compensation for losing top free agents. The A's received one draft pick each this spring from the Yankees, the Red Sox and the Cardinals for the signings of Jason Giambi, Johnny Damon and Jason Isringhausen.
"That is a major loss for small-market teams," Schott said. "That's how we have built our franchise back up. Now, you could say, on the other hand, we're going to get a potful of money on the other side in revenue sharing to make us more financially competitive with the Yankees and the Red Sox and teams that are considered big-market teams."
But how much is in the pot? Schott said the A's were receiving $10 million to $12 million annually in revenue sharing and that the figure could reach $18 million under the new formula. "That would maybe get you an average player as a free agent, but it may not be enough to keep a Tejada, either," Schott said.
The A's roster is filled with young stars like Tejada, who is a candidate for the Most Valuable Player award; he has 31 home runs, 115 runs batted in and a .310 batting average. Pitcher Barry Zito, a 24-year-old candidate for the Cy Young award, will try for his 20th victory Monday against the Royals.
The A's have not lost since Aug. 12. The major league record of 26 consecutive victories was set by the 1916 New York Giants. The A.L. record of 19 was set by the 1947 Yankees and the 1906 Chicago White Sox. The 1953 Yankees had an 18-game streak, which no team had matched until today.
The A's lost Giambi to the Yankees over a no-trade provision, which Oakland would not include in its final six-year, $91 million proposal. In his final season in Oakland, Giambi received $4.1 million; he is making $11 million in his first season with the Yankees, who put a no-trade clause in his contract. The A's have recovered from all this to contend for their third consecutive playoff appearance. The Yankees have eliminated them the last two seasons. 
Does Tejada think this is the year the A's can overcome their American League rivals and reach the World Series? "Let's see, let's see," he said. "We're more and more older. We've learned about this game more. We've got some veteran guys that are used to being in the playoffs. We should be a better team in the playoffs."
Aside from the players, Zito suggested that the most valuable member of the franchise might be General Manager Billy Beane, who has fashioned the team with enlightened drafting and shrewd trades. "I just hope Billy Beane stays with the A's," Zito said. "As long as he's here, we're going to be good. I'm talking about draft, raising guys up through the system and trades. All these things Billy does are unbelievable." 
Third baseman Eric Chavez, who helped win Saturday night's game with three R.B.I., is one player who has emerged from Beane's system. "This is fun," he said. "Billy is one of the great minds in baseball. We really enjoy playing here. We know we're the bottom of the payroll, but these guys have a lot of pride. It's a good time to be playing for this organization."
Chavez said one of Beane's key additions was Ray Durham, who, as the designated hitter, helped win Friday's game with four hits. "We've never really had a guy who's had power and speed," Chavez said. They do now. Durham, a veteran with poise, came after Oakland's purge of several players in late May. Jeremy Giambi, Eric Hiljus, Frank Menechino and Carlos Pena were trimmed off the roster after the team fell to 19-24 on May 19. Beane said over the weekend that poor play required him to make changes.
In recent years, Beane has retooled his roster from a group of sluggers to one with great starting pitchers at a time when baseball is trying to shift the balance of power back to the mound. Mark Mulder is 16-7 and Tim Hudson is 12-9. Cory Lidle, acquired in a trade from Tampa Bay in January 2001, was 5-0 in August to improve to 8-9.
Closer Billy Koch, who recorded his 37th save Saturday night, was acquired last December in a trade with Toronto. "Coming over here, I knew we were going to win a lot of games and we had a great team," Koch said. "But this is special. This is something you tell your kids and grandkids about."
Beane, who made the deals, said he knew he had to compensate for the loss of Jason Giambi. "We have had to forecast down the road who we're going to lose and prepare for the departure of players a couple years in advance," he said. "We weren't going to be caught off guard when Giambi left." 
Although Tejada and Chavez have picked up some of the home run production, it is pitching and good fielding that have sustained the A's through the streak.
Beane, who obtained David Justice in a trade with the Mets last December, recently signed Zito to a new contract that runs through 2005. In addition, he received first baseman John Mabry from the Phillies in the Jeremy Giambi trade and promoted second baseman Mark Ellis from the minors to replace Menechino. After next season, however, Beane will either have to sign Tejada at a high price or lose him as a free agent.
Schott will have to think about all this soon. He seemed cool and calculating while discussing a team he has run with his partner, Ken Hoffman, since 1996. He wanted to move the franchise 40 miles south to San Jose, but Commissioner Bud Selig would not allow it. The San Francisco Giants consider that portion of the Bay Area to be their territory. "It's controversial, to say the least," Schott said of the territorial issue. 
With speculation that the Montreal Expos may move to the Washington area, which the Baltimore Orioles consider their territory, there has been talk that the A's may renew their relocation effort. But Schott said he would prefer some sort of "sweetheart lease" on the East Bay and "creative financing" that would provide for private money to build a new stadium. The slump in the dot-com industry has hurt Silicon Valley, Schott said, in a way that makes public financing unlikely. "It's a huge problem," he said of the economy. 
The A's season-ticket base is about 10,000 and the team depends on walk-up sales of tickets priced as low as $8 in the upper deck. Despite their success, the A's expect to attract fewer than the 2,133,277 fans they drew last season; their average attendance of 25,305 is only eighth in the American League.
They have played in their park -- now called Network Associates Coliseum -- since 1968. Although the official seating capacity for baseball is listed as 43,662, there are 63,024 seats. A triple-tiered grandstand, which replaced the old outfield bleachers, was built for the National Football League's Raiders, who returned to Oakland in 1995. 
The fans chanted today when Tejada came to the plate in the ninth inning -- "M.V.P.! M.V.P!" With two men on base, Tejada swung at Eddie Guardado's fastball. He made contact and the ball soared high into the bright blue sky and over the scoreboard in left field, landing in the green seats.
Tejada dashed around the bases and was mobbed by teammates as he crossed home plate. Then he walked to the third-base dugout, took off his helmet, sat down and exhaled heavily as the other players filed past him to the locker room. When the cheers grew in intensity, Manager Art Howe waved from the field for Tejada to take a bow.
 He did, waving his arms before walking down the tunnel, slapping hands with fans.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Miguel Tejada hit a three-run home run in the bottom of the ninth inning yesterday to give the Oakland Athletics their 18th consecutive victory, baseball's longest winning streak in 49 seasons. (Reuters); (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Ray Durham, a second baseman and designated hitter, has been an important acquisition for the A's. He had four hits Friday.; Art Howe, the A's manager since 1995, and General Manager Billy Beane in spring training.; Cory Lidle was 3-9 before August, but 5-0 during it. He pitched a one-hitter on Aug. 21 in Cleveland. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (95%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (52%) BASEBALL; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; LABOR; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS); FREE AGENTS (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (93%); MINNESOTA TWINS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%) OAKLAND ATHLETICS; MINNESOTA TWINS; MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE; SCHOTT, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



69 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: How to Get Water to the Poor 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "As Multinationals Run the Taps, Anger Rises Over Water for Profit" (front page, Aug. 26): 
 Libertarians argue that privatized water will not be wasted. 
Environmentalists feel that natural resources like water are naturally and rightfully owned by all. There is no need to set these good ideas against one another.
If we had laws ensuring the people's ownership at the source, water could be sold in bulk by governments at auction. The revenue, rebated to citizens, could allow each person to buy enough water to meet domestic needs, as domestic use is a tiny portion of total water use. This system would increase water conservation greatly: once water is a commodity, its use must become economically justified.

HAL HORVATH
Austin, Tex., Aug. 27, 2002

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Aya Kakeda) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); UTILITY PRIVATIZATION (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) WATER; AUCTIONS 

PERSON: HORVATH, HAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (67%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



70 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: The Price We Will Pay for Climate Change 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "The Environmentalists Are Wrong," by Bjorn Lomborg (Op-Ed, Aug. 26): 
 Whatever the actual figure, the simple truth about species extinction is that many of the planet's most spectacular creatures -- mountain gorillas, tigers, pandas, orangutans and so on -- may disappear from the wild within our lifetimes. 
And the pandemonium of global warming will have its most devastating effects on the poor inhabitants of countries far from Mr. Lomborg in Denmark.
One has only to observe the disastrous floods that have recently afflicted Asia -- the synergistic result of climate change and deforestation -- to see how the poor suffer from the folly of the rich and then strive to imitate it.

DAVID HAYDEN
Wilton, Conn., Aug. 26, 2002




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); PRIMATES (88%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEFORESTATION (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (66%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENT; UNITED NATIONS WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: HAYDEN, DAVID; LOMBORG, BJORN (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



71 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Urge China to Let Information Flow 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 No doubt President Bush's agenda for the Oct. 25 summit meeting with President Jiang Zemin of China (news article, Aug. 26) will -- or should -- include encouragement of human rights and free expression. 
 Free expression is guaranteed in China's Constitution, but recent incidents suggest a government with an interest in suppressing that basic right. 
They include: 
*Blocking BBC World television news and deporting a Canadian journalist, Jiang Xueqin, who had filmed labor unrest for PBS.
*Halting distribution of an issue of The Economist that had articles about grass-roots democracy and reform in China.
*Sentencing Li Dawei, an activist, to prison for downloading and printing material from the Internet.
President Bush will be doing a big favor for the Chinese people by raising this issue.

KEVIN MCDERMOTT
NORMAN A. SCHORR
New York, Aug. 26, 2002

The writers are co-chairmen of the Freedom of the Press Committee, Overseas Press Club of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); WRITERS (88%); JOURNALISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); SENTENCING (67%) FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: OVERSEAS PRESS CLUB OF AMERICA 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) MCDERMOTT, KEVIN; SCHORR, NORMAN A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



72 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Powell Charts Low-Key Path In Iraq Debate 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
As debate over Iraq has intensified in recent weeks, one voice has been conspicuously absent amid the statements of other senior Bush administration officials: that of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. But that silence will be tested as Secretary Powell prepares to attend an international meeting in South Africa this week. 
 The trip in many ways reflects Secretary Powell's role as chief internationalist in an administration frequently portrayed as unilateralist even by its allies. 
 Secretary Powell signaled his approach on Thursday in an interview with the British Broadcasting Corporation, saying that United Nations weapons inspectors should return to Iraq. Three days earlier, by contrast, Vice President Dick Cheney had bluntly stated that a return of inspectors "would provide no assurance whatsoever," and had talked of "a great danger that it would provide false comfort." 
A portion of Secretary Powell's comments, taped for a coming program about last September's terrorist attacks, was released today by the BBC. "The president has been clear that he believes weapons inspectors should return," he said. "Iraq has been in violation of these many U.N. resolutions for most of the last 11 or so years. And so as a first step, let's see what the inspectors find."
Upon arriving in Johannesburg on Tuesday for the World Summit on Sustainable Development, a gathering on the environment and economic assistance for the third world sponsored by the United Nations, Secretary Powell will bring pledges of aid, endorse conservation programs and promote free trade and democratic rights as the keys to economic development. But Iraq will inevitably be a prominent issue as well, with Secretary Powell expected to explain the administration's plans in news conferences and private meetings with officials from African, European and Asian nations, State Department officials say.
The secretary's remarks on Iraq are sure to be carefully scrutinized by diplomats and journalists for signs of disagreement with President Bush's other principal foreign policy advisers -- Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser; Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Mr. Cheney -- who have used recent events to call forcefully for the ouster of the Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein.
However, Secretary Powell's remarks to the BBC differed little from what he said as long ago as February in testimony before Congress, and White House officials said they reflected neither a shift in his views nor any widening of debate within the administration.
Speaking on Air Force One today as President Bush returned to Washington from his vacation in Texas, Scott McClellan, a White House spokesman, insisted that there was no difference of opinion or emphasis between Secretary Powell and Mr. Cheney.
Mr. McClellan also said that important as inspections were, 'unfettered inspections are not enough."
"They still might be hiding something," he said. Even if Mr. Hussein allowed weapons inspectors into the country, he said, Mr. Bush's commitment to "regime change" would not be altered.
Secretary Powell has also often made it clear that he supports removing Mr. Hussein from power, even though he is widely thought to disagree with hawks who advocate swift, unilateral military action against Iraq.
Rather, administration officials say, the secretary believes that Mr. Bush should first press for a new round of weapons inspections and then seek international support for invasion plans. That view has recently been endorsed by three Republican foreign policy experts: former Secretaries of State James A. Baker III and Lawrence S. Eagleburger, and former national security adviser Brent Scowcroft.
But Secretary Powell has said little else in weeks, and his public restraint on Iraq in recent weeks -- part of which time he spent on vacation -- has been viewed in some quarters as evidence that he is trying to distance himself from the more bellicose statements of his administration colleagues.
"He seems not to be prevailing with regard to the multilateral approach to resolving the Iraq problem," said Lee H. Hamilton, a former Democratic congressman who is now director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
"He remains an important voice in the administration, but that is not to say he is the most important voice," Mr. Hamilton continued. "It's difficult to see how the Bush administration, or Bush himself, can backtrack from Cheney's very strong, aggressive stance."
In two speeches last week, Mr. Cheney presented the most detailed argument yet by the Bush administration for attacking Iraq, arguing that Mr. Hussein could acquire nuclear weapons "fairly soon" and that weapons inspections had proven ineffective to slow those programs.
State Department officials asserted that Secretary Powell's public silence on Iraq should not be construed as evidence of either disagreement or disengagement. He agrees that Mr. Hussein is dangerous, they note, and presses his views on how best to deal with that problem in daily conversations with President Bush.
"He's on the phone all the time with people here, as well as with foreign ministers," Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said last week. "He has made clear in those conversations, as he has throughout the administration, throughout the summer, that Iraq is a danger we have to deal with."
Secretary Powell's friends and advisers offer another explanation for his silence: he has concluded that he can be more effective through quiet diplomacy than public demonstrations of disagreement.
"I think it important that Secretary Powell continues to maintain the high ground in his efforts and interfaces with the president in a way he feels is most appropriate," said Senator Chuck Hagel, a Republican from Nebraska who has urged the administration to build international support for its Iraq policies. "Sometimes that means saying fewer things in public."
At the meeting in Johannesburg, Secretary Powell will discuss American aid for programs to conserve rain forests in the Congo River basin, expand clean water supplies and sanitation facilities, and stem famine in southern Africa.
In private meetings with African leaders, he is also expected to discuss Zimbabwe, where food shortages are particularly severe. The Bush administration asserts that President Robert Mugabe's economic and land redistribution policies are partly responsible for the spreading hunger.
After a day in Johannesburg, Secretary Powell will spend half a day in Angola where he will talk with President Jose Eduardo dos Santos about the nation's efforts to rebuild after three decades of civil war. From there, he will visit Gabon to attend a round table on conserving forest land and to meet with President El Hadj Omar Bongo.
Secretary Powell will also meet privately with nearly a dozen foreign leaders, including Prime Minister Mikhail M. Kasyanov of Russia, Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi of Japan and United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan.
The United States has come under sharp criticism at the summit meeting for opposing timetables for reducing its dependence on fossil fuels, easing hunger and eliminating subsidies for its farmers.
Those critics have accused Mr. Bush of trying to undermine the summit meeting by not attending even though heads of states from nearly 100 other countries are scheduled to take part, including Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany. Mr. Bush, the critics assert, acquiesced to conservative strategists like Paul Weyrich, Grover Norquist and David A. Keene who had urged him to stay away from Johannesburg.
Asked about such criticism last week, Mr. Boucher said, "I think the president's commitment is quite clear." He added, "The United States is a very strong and active member of the conference."
Robert C. Orr, Washington director of the Council on Foreign Relations, said whether or not Mr. Bush was interested in Africa, renewable energy, AIDS or global poverty, Secretary Powell was keenly concerned about those issues.
But the secretary will be spending only two days in Africa, giving him little time to address such complex problems in depth. For that reason, Mr. Orr said, the administration's principal goal for the trip may be to dispel perceptions that the United States is arrogant and unilateralist in its foreign policies -- perceptions that could hurt efforts to build an international coalition against Iraq.
"Their top agenda item is to get out of there without trouble," Mr. Orr said. "This is not a time when the U.S. wants to look like it's shirking international responsibilities." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (65%); TERRORISM (53%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) DAO, JAMES; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); ASIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



73 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

A New Test for Powell As a Low-Key Mollifier
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is preparing to visit a summit meeting in Africa, his latest appearance where he is expected to play a quiet, low-key role in the public debate over Iraq. His role seems intended to mollify America's critics as much as to persuade them. A1

Bhutto Barred From Election
Election officials in Pakistan barred former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto from participating in parliamentary elections scheduled for October, bringing violent protests by hundreds of her supporters. The officials cited laws recently enacted by the country's military dictator and Ms. Bhutto's potential opponent. A8

New Challenges in Afghanistan
A rising number of violent incidents in Afghanistan in recent weeks, and reports that one troublesome warlord may be reassembling his troops, have heightened apprehensions that Afghanistan may be entering a new phase of conflict. A3

Israel and Jordan to Save Sea
Israel and Jordan announced that they would join forces to save the Dead Sea, which is rapidly receding. The announcement came after a week of international squabbling at the United Nations' World Summit on Sustainable Development. The Dead Sea, on the border between the two countries, sits in a place that is revered by Jews, Christians and Muslims. A9

Debate Over Palestinian Deaths
The rash of killings of Palestinian civilians has raised questions in Israel about whether restraints are slipping among troops and their commanders after nearly two years of deadly conflict with the Palestinians. A6

Reformer Wins Japan Seat
A flamboyant reformer, Yasuo Tanaka, won re-election as governor in the traditionally conservative Nagano prefecture, six weeks after being ousted by the regional legislature for "causing confusion" in the prefecture's usually quiescent politics. A3

Sweden Tries to Build Case
Swedish police tried to marshal evidence that a 29-year-old man arrested as he tried to board a London-bound flight with a handgun in his cabin baggage was planning to hijack the Boeing 737 just days before the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. Under Swedish law, the authorities have until noon Monday to authorize the man's detention or release him. A4

Mexico's Fox Seeks Unity
President Vicente Fox of Mexico pleaded with Mexico's Congress to "give democracy a chance" by letting him deliver on his promises to transform the nation. A2

Typhoon Kills Dozens
At least 88 people were dead after a powerful typhoon swept across the southern part of the Korean peninsula. A9

NATIONAL A10-13

U.S. Judges Move to Ban Secret Legal Settlements
South Carolina's 10 active federal trial judges have unanimously voted to ban secret legal settlements. If the court formally adopts the rule it will be the strictest ban on secrecy in settlements in the federal courts. Only Michigan has a similar rule, which unseals secret settlements after two years. A1

Veterans Find a Way
Death, old-age and lack of money threatened to end the annual meetings of the 761st Tank Battalion, the first black tank batallion to fight in World War II. The veterans decided not to merge with other units, but to hold joint annual conventions to keep costs down. But they agreed the decision may only delay the inevitable. A1

Workers Disillusioned
Economists say the mood has soured among American workers, union and nonunion, because wages are stagnating and unemployment has climbed to its highest level in years. Longshoremen, janitors and Boeing employees are threatening major strikes and employees are reeling from corporate scandals. A12

Growth in a Dangerous Sport
Motocross -- racing and stunt riding with off-road motorcycles on dirt tracks -- has become one of the country's fastest-growing sports, fueled by the gladiatorial spectacle of the professional arena races known as Supercross. As the sport has grown, so has the number of injuries to riders. A10

Competition for Janet Reno
Janet Reno's once formidable lead in the Democratic primary for governor of Florida has melted away against a first-time candidate backed by important endorsements and an effective advertising campaign. Ms. Reno is now running neck and neck with her competitor, Bill McBride, a Tampa lawyer. A12

California Budget Passed
The California Legislature ended a 61-day stalemate by passing a budget intended to address a $24 billion deficit that was growing deeper by the month. Democratic leaders in the State Assembly won the needed four votes from Republicans by promising to slash spending while avoiding any significant tax increases. A10

Death Complicates Inquiry
Richard Ricci remained the focus of the investigation into the disappearance of Elizabeth Smart, even though the authorities stopped short of identifying him as a suspect. Mr. Ricci died Friday, but a Smart family spokesman said the family believes his death could aid the investigators. A10

Safety of Blood in Question
It will take at least two weeks to determine whether the West Nile virus was transmitted through organ transplants or blood transfusions to a cluster of four transplant recipients in whom the disease is suspected. Health officials said the risk of acquiring the West Nile virus from the nation's blood supply is very low. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Violence in Upstate City No Surprise to Residents
Fighting broke out last week in Newburgh, N.Y., when someone threw a bottle or a brick at a car, the police said. It escalated after the driver, a 33-year-old woman, got out to confront her attackers. By the time officers arrived, an estimated 150 to 200 people were battling with sticks, knives and bottles. Yet few citizens of Newburgh expressed surprise at the outbreak of violence. B5

Conflict Over 9/11 Memorial
In planning for a memorial in New York City to the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, a struggle for control of the process has laid bare a tangle of unending grief, cultural chasms, distrust of government and pure and simple rage among a host of disparate groups. Residents of Lower Manhattan, business owners, architects, commuters, historians and relatives of the dead are vociferously making their views known. B1

No Commute for Some
The West Side is one of a handful of areas where relatively large numbers of New Yorkers say they are working at home. A slice of Manhattan bounded by West 98th and West 102nd Streets, Amsterdam Avenue and Riverside Drive is the phenomenon's epicenter. Six hundred people, or 10.4 percent of that area's working population, work at home, according to data from the 2000 census. B1

Police Kill 2 in Brooklyn
Two men were shot and killed by the police in seperate incidents in Brooklyn. Jamil Moore, 22, went on a rampage in the house he shared with his mother in Canarsie and was shot and killed by a responding police detective after he threatened the detective with a knife, the police said. His family contends that he was not armed when he was shot. Paul Angel, 55, menaced several people on a Bensonhurst street with a knife and then stabbed a police officer before the officer shot and killed him, the police said. B1

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-10

Oakland Extends Streak
Miguel Tejada of the Oakland A's hit a dramatic three-run homer as Oakland rallied to beat the Minnesota Twins, 7-5, to extend baseball's best streak since 1953. The A's 18-game winning streak broke the team record and helped make the A's the leaders of the American League West and the hottest team in the major leagues. A1

OBITUARIES B7

Dean Riesner
A seasoned scriptwriter who wrote "Dirty Harry" and is credited with dreaming up some of Clint Eastwood's famous tough-guy lines, he was 83. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

United to Pick President
The board of UAL, the parent company of United Airlines, could select Glenn F. Tilton, an oil industry executive, as the airline's president and chief executive, according to people with knowledge of the situation. Mr. Tilton, one of two vice chairmen of ChevronTexaco and the interim chairman of Dynegy, the ailing energy trader partly owned by ChevronTexaco, was recommended for the post by a five-member committee of directors. A12

Disability Rolls Swell
Millions of low-skilled workers have turned to federal disability pay as a refuge from layoffs in recent years, doubling the benefit's cost and, with little notice, making it by far the government's biggest income-support program. Most of those qualifying for the benefits never got past high school. Their numbers have grown to 5.42 million today from 3 million in 1990, swelling the program's costs to $60 billion last year. A1

Who Won at the Box Office?
It has become a pastime in Hollywood during these dog days of summer to anoint both winners and losers of the summer box office sweepstakes. But what is giving the industry veterans pause are blockbusters that look like huge moneymakers, yet leave little in studios' coffers. C1

Theater Chain in a Tough Spot
With ticket buyers lining up at cinemas around the country this summer, it should have been the best of times for theater owners. But not for AMC Entertainment, one of the nation's largest movie theater chains. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Looking past Labor Day; a wider role in Afghanistan; crony capitalism; for State Senate from New York City.
Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather B8
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); JUDGES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); RIOTS (70%); RELIGION (70%); TYPHOONS (70%); HIJACKING (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); TERRORISM (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (75%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); MEXICO (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



74 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: From Kennedys to Sopranos, Cuomo Uses Celebrity Appearances More Than McCall 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
Puzzled constituents often ask New York's Democratic gubernatorial candidates, Andrew M. Cuomo and H. Carl McCall, how they differ on the issues, and, it is clear, the answers do not always satisfy. But one thing does set the two men apart on the stump: call it the celebrity factor.
 Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, stuck to his Sunday routine yesterday, visiting several predominantly black churches, seeking to make sure black voters come out in droves in the Sept. 10 primary and put Mr. McCall one step closer to becoming the state's first black governor. 
 But up and down Fordham Road in the Bronx, Mr. Cuomo, the former federal housing secretary, once again brought out some star power. At his side marched the actor Joe Pantoliano, who plays Ralph Cifaretto on the HBO drama "The Sopranos." 
Another actor, Giancarlo Esposito, was originally listed on Mr. Cuomo's schedule, but aides said no, expect him out there today with Mr. Cuomo as he marches in the West Indian American Day parade in Brooklyn. The former Agriculture secretary, Dan Glickman, also campaigned with Mr. Cuomo, but, in these urban parts, his celebrity status is dubious.
Last weekend, Mr. Cuomo brought along Cornel West, a best-selling author on black America. Russell Simmons, the hip-hop impresario, has also made a few appearances. This is besides the Kennedy aura that has touched Mr. Cuomo through his wife, Kerry Kennedy Cuomo, and brother-in-law Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has campaigned with him on environmental issues. (Other Kennedys are expected to campaign for him this week.)
Mr. McCall seems to prefer to keep his celebrity connections quieter, rarely appearing with any on the campaign trail in New York. He does have Earvin (Magic) Johnson in his camp. Also, Chris Rock, Sean Combs (known as P. Diddy, formerly Puff Daddy) and Chris Tucker have attended fund-raisers for Mr. McCall outside the state.
Mr. McCall in fact landed in yesterday's gossip pages by attending Mr. Comb's party after the MTV Music Awards Thursday night. And he does have in his corner Senator Charles E. Schumer, who is celebrity enough in many voters' minds.
But Mr. Cuomo, who is trailing in opinion polls, has a made a concerted effort to use star power.
His celebrities, he said, are not just that, but political activists as well. And he said he likes to appear with them because he thinks they will help encourage people to vote and instill a sense of fun in politics.
"Part of this campaign, one of the elements of this campaign, is trying to generate some fun again, and it can be fun," Mr. Cuomo said. "Joe Pantoliano is on one of the top shows. A lot of people watch it. So there's a good energy."
Celebrity appearances, of course, do not always go smudge-free.
Mr. Cuomo, an Italian-American, ended up answering questions at a news conference about whether "The Sopranos" promotes stereotypes of Italian-Americans as mobsters. His father, Mario M. Cuomo, has railed against mob movies and television shows, and last year Andrew Cuomo's campaign conducted a poll in which respondents were asked if "The Sopranos" advanced stereotypes.
Mr. Cuomo did not take a firm stand. (Mr. Pantoliano, whose character is a mob soldier, had left before Mr. Cuomo's news conference.)
"It is just entertainment and that's how they mean it and that's what they say it is, entertainment," Mr. Cuomo said. "It is not meant to depict anything. And that's how I take it, just as entertainment."
As they walked in the Bronx, shaking hands and talking to potential voters -- "First we have to become a citizen, then we have to vote," Mr. Cuomo instructed a group of men who reacted wordlessly and impassively to his greeting -- an absent political celebrity weighed on many people's minds. 
Over and over, people shook Mr. Cuomo's hand and said how much they admired his father, the former governor, who Mr. Cuomo's aides say campaigns for his son outside the news media's glare.
"Wow, it's really you," said Reginald Thompson, 42, an unemployed systems analyst, who later said that he had not decided whom to vote for, but ran into a store to tell friends that the son of Mario Cuomo was outside. "I remember your father. He did a good job."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Celebrities have been involved in the campaigns of Andrew M. Cuomo, with Charlie King, a candidate for lieutenant governor, and H. Carl McCall. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); RAP MUSIC (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (67%); WRITERS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); POP & ROCK (62%); MUSIC (60%); BESTSELLERS (51%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; CELEBRITIES; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (76%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); CHRIS ROCK (53%) ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; CUOMO, ANDREW M; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); KENNEDY CUOMO, KERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (70%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



75 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: His Agenda Ailing, Fox Urges the Mexican Congress to Help 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox pleaded with Mexico's Congress tonight to "give democracy a chance" by letting him deliver on his promises to transform the nation.
 Mr. Fox gave a state of the union speech that was long on ideals of liberty and justice, but short on single-handed solutions for poverty and inequality. 
 After 21 months in power, Mr. Fox said he knows "that Mexico demands better results."
Acknowledging that at least half its 100 million people are poor, he said he could not solve their needs by himself. He urged Congress, his audience, to stop blocking his unrealized plans for fiscal, social and economic reform.
"This is the hour for concord," he said. "Democratic cooperation is the watchword."
He repeated, as if reciting a prayer, "Let's give democracy a chance."
"The nation faces challenges beyond the power of any one political force to solve them," he said. "People hope for more than democracy. They are impatient with discord. They want a democracy that works, fundamental social change and a just economic order."
Tonight's speech was in part a long reprise of Mr. Fox's one great achievement -- the fact that his election two years ago ended seven decades of one-party rule -- and a recitation of his admittedly insufficient accomplishments.
Mexico is indeed becoming a democracy, rather than the autocracy it was. But this means that Mr. Fox has less power than any previous president. Despite his desire to lift the standard of living, the nation still has one foot in the developed world and the other mired in deep poverty.
Mr. Fox promised to help create millions of new jobs. Hundreds of thousands have been lost instead. He promised 7 percent annual economic growth. The economy is flat.
Much can be blamed on the economic downturn in the United States, which buys nearly 90 percent of Mexico's exports. But Mr. Fox also has repeatedly announced social and political accomplishments before actually achieving them.
Though change has long been Mr. Fox's mantra, tonight he also congratulated Mexico for stability in perilous times. 
"Amid economic and political turbulence that threatens many nations, Mexico has managed to strengthen and protect what it has," he said. 
In fact, the peso is as stable as it ever has been, while inflation and interest rates are the lowest in three decades.
That does little to help the 50 million Mexicans with no money. The number of people living in absolute poverty in Mexico, scraping by on $4 or less a day, has increased during Mr. Fox's presidency.
Still, polls show that a popular majority supports Mr. Fox. But a majority of Congress opposes him. Cesar Camacho, a senator from the former ruling Institutional Revolutionary party, said tonight: "Optimism's over. People are losing patience."
The Legislature, where no party holds a majority, has blocked every important change Mr. Fox has proposed for Mexico's economy, particularly his plans to kick-start oil, gas and electricity production through foreign investment.
Unless he accelerates Mexico's progress before next year's congressional elections, his opposition may grow -- and the high hopes he raised both among Mexico's elites and its ordinary citizens could evaporate.
Writing today in the Mexico City daily Reforma, Juan Enriquez Cabot, a former Mexican foreign ministry official, had a long list of things he no longer expects from Mr. Fox: "Changes. Clarity. Concreteness. Coordination. Direction. Done deeds."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With Beatriz Paredes, congressional president, at arm's length, President Vicente Fox asked lawmakers last night to stop blocking his agenda. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TRENDS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (94%) WEINER, TIM; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002 



76 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Brain Disease Rises in Deer, Scaring Hunters 

BYLINE:  By SANDRA BLAKESLEE 

 BODY:
As hunting season approaches, people in Wisconsin and the Rocky Mountain states are increasingly worried about chronic wasting disease, the variant of mad cow disease that afflicts deer and elk.
 Scientists are fairly confident that no one in the United States has died from a human version of chronic wasting disease, but hunters are confused and frightened anyway. 
 In Wisconsin in the past six months, 24 white tail deer have tested positive for the disease, and none of them looked sick. Not certain if venison frozen from last year's hunt is safe to eat, many families are throwing it away.
Surveys show that up to a third of the state's hunters plan to stay out of the woods this year, and many who do hunt will not be bringing their prey home. Economists estimate that the state may lose a third of the more than $1 billion that deer hunting brings to local businesses. 
Similar fears are spreading in Colorado and Wyoming, where the disease has been endemic for decades and now spans a 20,000-square-mile area. Last week, the California Department of Fish and Game proposed a regulation to ban the importing of brains or spines from deer and elk killed by hunters.
Hunters who would once have called outfitters for advice on bagging an elk are today asking whether animals have tested positive for the disease, said Gary Wolfe, head of the Chronic Wasting Disease Alliance in Missoula, Mont.
At the same time, a fast-growing industry, the hunting of captive deer and elk, is under siege. By putting animals behind fences and raising them to grow large antlers, game farm owners guarantee hunters a trophy rack. They also sell the antlers, known as velvet Viagra, to lucrative Asian markets.
But chronic wasting disease appears to spread rapidly in captive elk and deer. One Nebraska ranch found chronic wasting disease in half its deer. A game farm in Colorado shipped 400 exposed elk to 15 states, including Wisconsin.
So hunters all over the country want to know what the disease is, whether it threatens people and how it can be stopped. But wildlife experts have no good answers. 
Chronic wasting disease belongs to a family of disorders caused by aberrant proteins. Proteins are typically long molecules that must fold in particular ways if they are to function normally in the body and brain. Improperly folded proteins accumulate into gunky plaques and tangles in brain and body tissues. In chronic wasting disease, mad cow disease and other so-called transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, an errant protein called a prion misfolds.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a rare fatal disease that occurs in people, is a prion disorder that about 300 Americans develop each year. The version of mad cow disease that spread to people in Britain is a variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob. Exactly how misfolded prions spread from one species to another is not yet known. But recent research shows that the prion, like other misfolding proteins, early on forms tiny toxic fibrils, or pores, that can literally poke holes in cells, a finding that may account for the spongy cavities seen in victims' brains.
Many researchers believe that a prion disease in sheep called scrapie was transmitted to cattle when British rendering plants that grind up animal wastes for use in feed lowered their processing temperatures to save fuel. From the early 1980's on, millions of head of cattle were fed high protein dregs from rendering plants, and thousands of them developed mad cow disease. 
In 1996, the human version of mad cow disease, new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, was identified. Since then 135 people, mostly from Britain, have died from the new prion disease. No one knows whether the epidemic has peaked or if it will kill tens of thousands of people.
But if sheep spread the disease by eating the dropped placentas of infected ewes, and cows spread the disease by eating feed made from infected cows, how do deer and elk spread it? Wildlife officials do not know. 
Animal experts in Wisconsin want to estimate how many of the state's 1.8 million white tail deer are infected. To do so, they will perform brain biopsies on 40,000 to 50,000 of the half-million deer that hunters are expected to kill in the hunting season, which begins this month and has been extended to January. Of these, 15,000 to 25,000 will come from a 374-square-mile area 30 miles west of Madison where all the infected animals have been found. All 25,000 deer in this so-called hot spot are to be eradicated.
Some experts are testing deer urine for abnormal prions. Dr. Valerius Geist, an emeritus professor of wildlife ecology at the University of Calgary, noted that male deer slurped urine from females during rutting season. "An actively rutting buck will have had in his mouth the fresh urine of about 100 does or more," Dr. Valerius said. "He is testing for when the female enters estrus, which is when mating begins." 
Bull elk do not drink urine, Dr. Valerius said, but they spray themselves with it and females lick if off.
Deer also love to chew the bones of dead deer and elk, which could contain prions in dried marrow, Dr. Valerius said. Deer are known to nibble on fecal piles and, like elk, they slobber on each other and exchange drool.
Humans might also help spread the disease. For the last decade, landowners in Wisconsin's hot spot have been feeding deer mineral and protein supplements to produce big bucks with big antlers. If any of the feed contained prions from rendered roadkill deer -- an idea many experts find unlikely -- the disease could spread. Alternatively, the practice of attracting deer to feeding stations where they have a greater chance of exchanging body fluids may be a factor.
Once an infectious prion enters a deer, it is taken up by tonsils and is passed through the lymph, immune and nervous systems into the spinal cord and brain, replicating as it goes, said Dr. Elizabeth Williams, a veterinarian at the University of Wyoming and a leading expert on chronic wasting disease. The misfolded prions co-opt healthy prions, domino fashion. Wasting symptoms, like emaciation and lack of coordination, appear 14 to 30 months after exposure, she said. 
There is no evidence that chronic wasting disease has naturally infected other species, including predators that feed on deer and elk, cattle or sheep that share natural habitat with them or hunters who love venison, Dr. Williams said. A species barrier, based on the fact that prions from one species can have a different enough shape to resist being co-opted by prions from another species, seems to protect many animals. 
But that is not reassuring to a number of families whose loved ones ate venison and who later died of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a natural human prion disease that usually appears in people over 65.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention investigated 13 cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob in young people since 1979, said Dr. Ermias Belay, an investigator at the agency. Most cases can be explained by genetic or environmental factors having nothing to do with exposure to venison, Dr. Belay said. New variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob that came from cows has many distinct features that make the diagnosis unmistakable, he said. But younger Americans who died from the disease did not show common disease features. Finally, the incidence of Creutzfeldt-Jakob in states with chronic wasting disease is similar to that of states without the deer and elk disease, he said.
To halt the spread of chronic wasting disease, Wisconsin wildlife officials have banned the practice of feeding deer and plan to eradicate all deer in the hot spot. A computer model developed by Dr. John Cary, an ecologist at the University of Wisconsin, shows that if nothing is done, half of all deer in the core area will be infected in 10 years. In 25 years, all the animals will be dead, he said, and the disease will spread to the rest of the state.
"We've got a shot at putting the genie back in the bottle," said Dr. Tom Hauge, who directs the chronic wasting disease program of the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. "It means killing a lot of deer. But deer are not the enemy, the disease is."
This fall, Wisconsin officials will have to examine up to 50,000 deer brains and then dispose of animals that hunters do not want to take home. Of the 15,000 to 25,000 deer killed in the eradication zone, 450 to 750 are expected to have the wasting disease, said Doris Olander, who is in charge of disposal for the department. "At 140 pounds each," she said, "2.1 to 3.5 million pounds of deer will need to be buried or incinerated, beginning in October." 
Dr. Hauge observed, "It's like you're standing on a highway with a Mack truck bearing down on you." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Concern about chronic wasting disease is growing in Wisconsin and the Rocky Mountain states. A deer's lip curls, above left, used for browsing or sampling urine in rutting season may spread the disease. The mule deer doe at top right shows advanced signs of the disease. (Michael H. Francis); (Todd Malmsbury)(pg. F4) Map of the United States tracks Chronic Wasting Disease. (pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); SPORT HUNTING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); DEER & ELK PRODUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL HUNTING & TRAPPING (89%); CREUTZFELDT JAKOB DISEASE (89%); ANIMALS (87%); BRAIN (87%); WILDLIFE (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (66%) HUNTING AND TRAPPING; DEER; ELK; CHRONIC WASTING DISEASE 

PERSON: BLAKESLEE, SANDRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



77 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Reinventing Fashion in Makeover City: Los Angeles 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Corey Parks stands 6-foot-3 in her Converse All Stars. Ms. Parks, whose mother was a construction worker, is also the bass player in a band called the Hunns, and as a hobby she competes in fire-breathing contests. For the last few months, she has dated a professional skateboarder named Duane Peters, and as if one's eye wouldn't already turn to her in a packed Union Station, say, she has his name tattooed on her neck in letters the size of bottle caps.
 To support her various interests, Ms. Parks got a job a year ago as a bouncer at Les Deux Cafes, the Hollywood bistro and club that has become a nexus for young actors of the Independent Film Channel sort and the more freethinking members of the Los Angeles fashion set. While minding the door one evening, she met Tommy Perse, a man in late middle age who speaks like Austin Powers and looks like a former roadie for Pink Floyd. 
 As the owner of Maxfield on Melrose Avenue, Mr. Perse has long been considered one of the fashion world's most influential retailers. He admired the leather jacket Ms. Parks was wearing, which, it turned out, she had rejiggered herself from a vintage piece. He asked her to rework more jackets and bought her a sewing machine. Now she spends the bulk of her time in her apartment customizing motorcycle jackets she finds at flea markets with military patches, fringes and sayings. They sell at Maxfield, Colette in Paris and Henri Bendel for upward of $2,000 each.
Like so much else in Los Angeles, fashion careers can blossom serendipitously -- without a degree from the Parsons School of Design or a stint at Calvin Klein. And lately, fashion careers have been blossoming here with greater regularity. 
For the first time in years, Los Angeles has an official star in Rick Owens, who took home the Perry Ellis award for new talent from the Council of Fashion Designers of America in the spring for his grunged-up Mme. Gres garments. In some part because of his success, store owners around the country are increasingly directing their attention here. Julie Gilhart, the fashion director of Barneys New York, reported that for the fall 2002 season, the store's buyers spent twice as much money on Los Angeles designers as they had the previous year. 
"There are a lot of really cool people coming out of there right now," Ms. Gilhart said. "The thing about L.A. is that everyone's so hungry for fashion, because everyone is on display." 
Los Angeles is the birthplace of a specific jeans, T-shirt and sandals style that never looked as relaxed as its progenitors must have intended. The look dictates that the jeans are low and skintight, the shirts fitted and the sandals needle-heel and high. Of course, no one who dresses this way ever looks free enough to do anything more than stand upright with a highball glass.
The notion of an "L.A. style" has now evolved into something less rigid, whimsically scrappy even. In a city so reliant on ideas of reinvention, many designers have been drawn to the idea of elaborately tearing up old garments and then reinventing them. This is the preferred method of Koi Suwannagate, a native of Thailand who has been in Los Angeles for two years. Ms. Suwannagate cuts up old cashmere sweaters on dress forms and embellishes them with cascading flowers that she makes out of the remnant wool. Her Koi knits are sold at Fred Segal, Barneys and Bendel's.
For the third consecutive year, Bendel's has conducted an open call at the W Hotel in the Westwood section, at which young, generally unknown designers pitch their wares. The event attracted 450 designers last month, and Bendel's signed 18 of them -- "a high success rate," said Anna Garner, the store's fashion director. Last year, the buying team found only 8.
Designers had lined up hours before the 9 a.m. start time. By 9:30 or so, Heidi Cohen, a Bendel's accessories buyer, had already found a line of handbags made from recycled Filipino fruit juice packaging. The designer's name was Monique Gordon. "These will fly off the shelves," Ms. Cohen predicted. "Fruit always sells. You can imagine it on any girl in New York City."
Not long after, Ms. Garner was dispatched to survey the work of a young man named Simone Morandini. He makes evening gowns out of men's wear fabrics, inventively outlining a high front slit in a dress with the satin lapels of a tuxedo. As with so many designers at the open call, fashion is an extracurricular endeavor for Mr. Morandini -- literally in his case, because he is a senior in high school. 
"I have 30 girls begging me to do their prom dresses," Mr. Morandini announced. "I have a team of seamstresses." Ms. Garner told him she would think about doing a trunk show with him at Bendel's this fall.
The day before the open call, buyers at Bendel's stumbled upon a designer named Rene Holguin, who by day works as a creative consultant for Lucky Brand jeans. During his off hours, he makes handbags with hand-cut leather flowers from thrift shop jackets while seated on a stool at a table in his apartment in the Los Feliz area. "It's just unbelievable what you can find here," Mr. Holguin, a former New Yorker, said of the thrift store supply.
Pearl, a six-month-old boutique in Santa Monica, provides even more evidence of Los Angeles's vast attic. The owner, Jennifer Nicholson, a daughter of Jack Nicholson, sells, among other things, her own collection of reworked vintage coats and blouses, some with prints of golf T-shirts and tennis rackets.
If there is another theme linking Los Angeles designers, it is that everyone seems to come very much from somewhere else. Rami Kashou and the team of Stefan Loy and Frank Ford, all jersey enthusiasts, spent much of their adult lives in, respectively, Palestine and Germany. Desiree Kohan, who designs for the Goretti label, which makes coats of patchwork leather, is Iranian. Her aunt dressed the Shah.
Some will contend that Los Angeles has become an increasingly popular incubator of design talent because the economics of the city allow it. Gregory Parkinson, an Englishman who struggled for several years trying to build a business in New York, found that to be so. Mr. Parkinson moved to Los Angeles late last year, and since then he has picked up accounts with 24 new stores. He credits his success to his own reduced state of anxiety. In New York, he worked out of his home, because he couldn't afford studio space. Once, he flooded the laundry room in his apartment building felting fabric in his bathroom.
When he moved to Los Angeles, he found an apartment and a spacious working loft in the garment district around West Ninth Street for about as much as it would cost to rent a storage locker in New York. Mr. Parkinson, whose open jackets and colorful skirts look like sophisticated arts and crafts, found manufacturers more easily than in New York simply because there are more of them. "It's also easy to find people here who can work at a very high level," Mr. Parkinson said. He even found fabric vendors who didn't mind waiting for payment, he said. "That doesn't happen in New York."
"And in New York," he added, "if you have a bad season or two, you're out of business." In Los Angeles, "it doesn't matter -- your mistakes can be absorbed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sinuous reworked sweater by Koi, with cascading flowers made from cashmere remnants. Refined buttonless jackets by Gregory Parkinson, who finds Los Angeles more affordable to work in than New York. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times); Jennifer Nicholson, Jack's daughter, reworks vintage pieces. Rene Holguin accents handbags with flowers cut from thrift shop jackets. Reworked motorcycle jacket by Corey Parks.; Young designers wait to show their wares at Bendel's open call in Los Angeles; 450 were called, 18 chosen. Simone Morandini, a high school senior and designer, with Anna Garner, Bendel's fashion director. (Photographs by Marissa Roth for The New York Times above, top right and below left and right ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SKATEBOARDING (73%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); RETAILERS (71%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) APPAREL 

ORGANIZATION: HENRI BENDEL (RETAIL STORE) 

PERSON: BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



78 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Septembermay not be stocks' cruelest month, but investors should not expect kindness, either.

BYLINE:  By Kenneth N. Gilpin 

 BODY:
AS financial markets reopen today after the three-day hiatus that is the unofficial end of summer, analysts say they see little evidence to suggest that stock market indexes are poised to move markedly higher. Still, there appears less risk that stocks will move through recent lows.
 "I think the market has made a bottom and won't retest it," said Laszlo Birinyi, global trading strategist at Deutsche Bank. "The broad market will do better, but it won't get up and run away." 
 Indeed, despite several outstanding issues, the odds suggest that September will be a better month for the stock market, if only because the spring and the summer were so poor.
Consider that the Dow Jones industrial average fell for the fifth consecutive month in August. That has not happened since September 1981. For the year, the blue chip index is down 13.55 percent.
What is more, the Nasdaq composite index, down a whopping 32.6 percent this year, has also declined for five consecutive months. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rallied strongly from its July lows. But it backed off as August progressed and closed with a barely noticeable gain of 0.5 percent.
Not surprisingly, the steep decline in prices, coupled with uncertainties about corporate governance, the war on terrorism, the economy and earnings have left investors "disheartened and insecure," said Thomas Galvin, chief investment officer at Credit Suisse First Boston. 
Unfortunately, based on the recent past, September has not been a month when spirits lifted and markets flourished.
In 1998, investors had to cope with the aftermath of Russia's default and the collapse of Long Term Capital Management.
A year later, Year 2000 and computer difficulties were the big worries.
September of 2000 marked the beginning of the final push to the presidential elections and all the foment that the result of that contest generated.
And the anniversary of Sept. 11 is now approaching.
As this September begins, the state of the economy is of primary concern.
The American consumer, a huge source of strength over the last two years, cannot be expected to continue carrying the economy, analysts say.
"People have been rightly concerned about the legs of the consumer," said Thomas McManus, chief investment strategist at Banc of America Securities. 
"Until we get an answer to the question of what will create a more balanced recovery, until the recovery broadens out, stocks will move sideways to slightly higher," Mr. McManus said
As recently as July, most analysts expected the economy to build momentum as it moved into the second half of the year, pulling corporate profits higher.
A string of reports that were weaker than expected severely dampened those expectations and prompted a number of prominent economists to predict that the Federal Reserve will move to cut short-term interest rates this fall, possibly on Sept. 24, when policy makers are to meet next. 
Expectations of a rate cut have been lowered in recent weeks. But they could surge anew if data to be released this week, starting with the August report from the nation's purchasing managers, scheduled to be released this morning, show that business conditions remain soft. And on Friday, financial markets will take a fresh look at labor conditions when the government releases its August employment report. 
Whatever those numbers show, analysts say they are unlikely to suggest that the economy, which expanded at an annual rate of 1.1 percent in the second quarter, has rebounded sharply this summer. And a marked pickup from the current pace will be needed to generate healthy profit growth. 
"You need to get nominal growth in gross domestic product of up to 5 percent to get double-digit profit growth," Mr. Galvin said. 
Although the recession that now appears to be over was short and shallow, the falloff in output from the boom of the late 1990's has been pronounced, Mr. McManus noted. 
"For almost five years, gross domestic product on an inflation-adjusted basis grew at 4 percent a year," he said. "Over the last seven quarters, it has grown at a 1 percent rate."
Even as economists are ratcheting down their growth forecasts for the second half, Wall Street analysts remain optimistic that corporate profits will show a healthy improvement from a year ago, if only because business in the third and fourth quarters of 2001 was so bad.
Still, the dichotomy has many stock market strategists worried. 
"Earnings estimates were way too high and will have to come down," Mr. McManus said. 
Thomson First Call, which compiles earnings estimates from Wall Street analysts, now projects that third-quarter profits will be up 11.2 percent from a year earlier. In the second quarter, corporate earnings were up 1.4 percent, according to Thomson First Call, the first positive gain in five quarters.
Chuck Hill, the firm's research director, said last week that recent announcements from a number of companies whose fiscal third quarter ends in September suggested that although the profit picture was not deteriorating further, it was not improving much, either. 
As the nation returns to work and children slog back to school, there does not appear to be a catalyst that will generate much momentum in the equity market.
"The consumer is tired, and businesses aren't spending," Mr. Galvin said. 
"This is not the stage for investors to get excited about stocks." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); TERRORISM (65%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ELECTIONS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



79 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Airlines Trying to Improve Food at 30,000 Feet

BYLINE:  By TANYA MOHN; Readers are invited to send stories about business travel experiences to businesstravel@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
Everybody has heard the horror stories about airline food, post-Sept. 11. It's either inedible or nowhere to be found.
 But try hard enough, and you can feast like a king at 30,000 feet. The surest way to haute cuisine is probably a flight to Europe or Asia on a foreign airline. But don't count out American carriers just yet. While their food might not always rise to Old World gastronomic refinement, it does show inventiveness by appealing to American tastes like the preoccupation with health and the love of speed and efficiency. 
 To sample the cuisine of faraway indigenous cultures, give Air New Zealand a try. Selections like grilled herb marinated venison with mushroom tempura in white soy ginger sesame sauce and sauteed orange roughy with tomato prawn and seasonal vegetables in chardonnay watercress sauce are typical dishes in first and business class.
And Patricia Fraser, a former airline employee in marketing who admits to being a hard sell, has noticed the quality filtering down to economy class. On a recent 14-hour flight from Los Angeles to Sydney on Air New Zealand, she found the food and service "out of this world," and was impressed by the choice of wines and the fact they were poured from full bottles.
Wine lovers will feel at home on Singapore Airlines. It boasts one of the largest wine cellars in the industry, a storehouse in Singapore crammed with many of the 132,000 cases it serves each year. And Anthony Dias Blue, a wine consultant for the airline, says the most exciting wines are not served in first class at all, where older, more established clients are often less daring. "The stuff we pour in Raffles is more interesting," he said, referring to the business class.
If a healthy diet is uppermost in your mind, consider booking a flight with Delta Air Lines. It designed "ideal performance meals" for international BusinessElite travelers a couple of years ago in consultation with Dr. Jack Groppel, a nutritionist and fitness expert known for his work to help athletes achieve high performance.
Those same techniques are applied to meals that will help business travelers, he says. "Food is a very powerful drug" Dr. Groppel said, "with the ability to alter chemistry in an incredible way."
Dopamine, activated by proteins, promotes alertness for those who must work on board, he says, while serotonin in a carbohydrate meal, such as raviolini pasta, promotes calm, allowing the client to rest and be alert upon landing.
It worked for Scott Cushing, a sales manager for ChevronTexaco, based in Chattanooga, Tenn., who was nervous about being fresh for a business meeting after a flight from Atlanta to Paris.
"Typically, I have a hard time sleeping on flights," Mr. Cushing said. But after loading up on penne primavera with vegetables and a pesto alfredo sauce, he said, "I slept, and when I arrived I woke up and was immediately able to get on schedule. It was a total shock. I was thrilled."
Mr. Cushing was so pleased with the results, that he "pirated" a Delta menu for his own use. He has since shared it with fellow business travelers, he says, and follows the concepts no matter what airline he takes.
Some foreign airlines offer organic foods. Swiss Air was the first. Varig, the Brazilian airline, put them on its menus last September for international business and first-class travelers and plans to expand the service to international economy early next year. In polls the airline conducts on its shuttle flights of senior corporate executives, healthy food is consistently rated as a priority, Edward Couto, a Varig executive, said. "We started paying attention to our customers," he said.
Satisfying fliers, never easy, has become harder since Sept. 11, of course, with metal knives banned and meals on some carriers now delivered to planes at fewer points, meaning the food is held longer. 
Even getting the basics right is not easy, said Kelly Yorke, the corporate-executive chef for Midwest Express. "Taste buds are duller at 30,000 feet," she said, so salt and spices are "turned up a notch." And some food has to be tightly wrapped until the last minute, or prepared in special sauces, because it tends to dry out quickly in the cabin air.
Several years ago, Midwest Express's goal was to offer the best coffee of any airline, and Ms. Yorke worked for more than a year to overcome adverse cabin conditions for brewing like high altitudes and air pressure and low humidity, and to find just the right filters for maximizing extraction. 
"It is so easy to produce a bad cup of coffee, and so hard to produce a good one," she said.
Some travelers have found ways to tweak the system. John L. Campo, vice president of postal relations for Pitney Bowes, orders the low-salt or vegetarian meals a day before flying and gets exactly what he wants.
Harvey Schultz, director of Asia-Pacific finance for the McDonald's Corporation, gets similar results by ordering kosher meals on trips to Asia on Singapore Airlines about eight times a year. That carrier takes customized meals one step further through its Book the Cook program that offers more than 20 regional specialties in addition to the regular menu. The program also lets first-class and business-class patrons dine whenever they want.
That is a concept that seems to be catching on. Bob Rosar, a corporate executive chef for Gate Gourmet, one of the two largest airline catering companies, says at least three international carriers offer the eat-when-you-wish option to first-class and business passengers, and one domestic carrier recently considered it.
Peter Jones, a professor at the University of Surrey School of Management in England and an expert on airline food, believes that "customization," or giving passengers a wide choice of foods and letting them order when they want, is the wave of the future. China Southern Airlines recently announced On Demand Dining, an industry first that allows first-class passengers to order absolutely any dish if they call one day in advance, he said. And passengers on many European charters pay for food separately from the ticket, "rather like the railway."
Eventually, technology will allow passengers to book a meal on a mobile phone en route to the airport or on specially designed key pads at the airport, he predicted. "The lead time between ordering and eating will be shorter and shorter," he said.
Meantime, many passengers say airline food in general is improving. "When they do serve a meal, I think the food is getting better and better," said Elise Shumsky-Glier, a sales representative for a distributor of optical and surgical products who flies frequently in both business and economy class. Even on snack-only flights, she said, "the desserts are marvelous." She likes some treats -- like the biscotti she discovered on a Delta flight -- so much that she squirrels away the wrappers and calls the 1-800 number from home. Then, she said, "I order them by the boxful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kelly Yorke, the corporate-executive chef of Midwest Express Airlines, often tests recipes in her own home kitchen in Caledonia, Wis. (Miriam Sushman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); WINE (90%); NUTRITION (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FOOD; RESTAURANTS 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (58%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (54%); CHEVRON CORP (51%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); AIZ (ASX) (58%); AIR (NZX) (58%); C6L (SGX) (54%); CVX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

PERSON: MOHN, TANYA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (65%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (88%); SINGAPORE (88%); ASIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



80 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Desperately Seeking Discounters 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich. 

 BODY:
With financial turmoil forcing the nation's major airlines into retreat, reducing or eliminating service to marginal markets to try to cut their costs, smaller airports are fighting hard to lure the low-fare carriers that continue to thrive.
 Smaller cities so value air links as economic development tools that many are spending millions of dollars to expand their operations, even without a promise that one of those airlines, like Southwest and AirTran, will offer service. 
 The campaigns to land these airlines can include everything from billboards to slide shows to guaranteed amounts of business, and they often involve local officials flying to airline headquarters to plead their cases in person.
The lines they join are long: Southwest alone has 115 cities on its consideration list, with dozens more that would like to join the queue. Flint's success in attracting two low-fare airlines already makes it the envy of other communities. 
"Airports across the country are scratching to get one," said Patricia Corfman, the airport's director of marketing. "People say, 'Do you know how lucky you are to have them?' "
Midsize cities covet the carriers because the promise that a low-fare airline can spur economic development is so great. Take, for example, what has happened at Bishop International Airport here.
This industrial city, which lies 80 miles north of Detroit, is itself in such dire straits that Michigan assumed control of civic operations this summer. But its freshly renovated airport is booming, largely because of traffic generated by the two low-fare carriers among the five airlines that fly here.
Only 8,000 passengers a month used the airport at its low ebb a few years ago, but now almost five times that many crowd the terminal, where parking costs just $10 a day and baggage arrives in the lobby. Many of those passengers come from Flint's suburbs, which are flourishing even as the urban core fades.
Airport officials said they hoped that some day, Bishop International would join the ranks of airports in Albany, N.Y.; Providence, R.I.; and Manchester, N.H., that have become successful thanks to low-fare airlines. Officials in Albany figure their airport contributes $635 million to the local economy, compared with $400 million just a few years ago, and Flint-area leaders see a similar effect here.
"It's had a huge impact economically," said Richard E. Hammel, chairman of the Genesee County Board of Commissioners. "There is significant investment in the airport from the carriers."
"People are proud of this airport," he added. "It's one of the things about Flint that is a success story, and there's not a lot of things right now to be positive about."
The airport's biggest carrier has long been Northwest Airlines, which flies from here to its hubs in Detroit and Minneapolis. (Delta Air Lines and Midwest Express Airlines also serve Flint.) But lately, the attention has been on Flint's newest airline, ATA, which began service in July to Midway Airport in Chicago. ATA is already carrying more passengers on its four daily flights than either the airline or airport officials had expected, and ATA plans to add a fifth daily flight.
ATA's arrival, and the presence of AirTran since 1996, have more than offset the departure last year of both Continental Express and US Airways Express, commuter carriers operated by the major airlines whose names they bear.
In retrospect, though, "it was a blessing that US Airways did leave here," said the airport's director, James L. Rice III, because that freed up space to be used by a discounter. US Airways's recent decision to reorganize under bankruptcy protection probably would have caused the airline to quit Flint anyway, Mr. Rice said.
"If a major carrier isn't a viable business, always needing to cut costs or raise prices, then the small town that's relying on it is taking a risk," agreed L. Nick Lacey, executive vice president of Morten Beyer & Associates, an aviation consulting firm in Arlington, Va.
Travelers, meanwhile, celebrate the arrival of the new carriers because of their lower fares. Waiting to board an ATA turboprop last month, John S. Rosenthal, president of Technomics, an automotive supplier, said that he used to pay as much as $1,400 for himself and two colleagues to travel on Northwest from Minneapolis to visit a General Motors plant here.
But on ATA, the total price was less than $900 -- a 35 percent savings and welcome news for Mr. Rosenthal, 38, who is looking to cut his company's travel costs and does not mind downgrading to a propeller plane from a jet.
One reason Flint has been able to attract two low-fare airlines is its location. The airport has a wide market to draw from, stretching north to Bay City, an industrial city on Lake Huron; west to Lansing, the state capital; and south into the suburbs of Detroit. Flint's airport draws 30 percent of its traffic from Oakland County, home to the United States headquarters of DaimlerChrysler, dozens of automotive suppliers and their well-heeled employees.
Mr. Rice stresses such factors when he woos airlines. "You have to prove to them that they can make money here," he said.
The realization that there were alternatives to the big airlines -- and the high prices and infrequent service that they often provided -- struck the small airports only a few years ago. In 1996, only 126 airports actively campaigned for new business, according to figures from the Department of Transportation; a year later, more than 250 were on the prowl.
"For many years, communities thought they were the only ones experiencing the high air fare problem," said Kevin Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents corporate travel departments and business travelers. "Then they realized, we're not alone -- and we're all in competition with each other."
They also realized they could benefit by giving the full-service airlines a little competition, too. In Buffalo, for example, air fares dropped 36 percent after AirTran began flying there, while passenger levels increased 65 percent, according to a 2001 report by the Transportation Department. Traffic doubled in Greensboro, N.C., once AirTran arrived, while the average fare fell 10 percent.
In Albany, passenger traffic jumped by 300,000 per year, to a record 1.5 million people, since Southwest Airlines began flying there in May 2000. Prices fell by more than 40 percent on average, said the airport's spokesman, Doug Myers.
The airport sparked its own turnaround by deciding to build a 16,000 square foot addition to its terminal to accommodate Southwest -- before the airline committed to start flying there.
Flint went to even greater lengths, adding 52,000 square feet in anticipation of the day when Southwest or JetBlue, which have both shown interest in the airport, might begin service here.
Such moves, however, are a gamble with taxpayers' dollars, said Michael A. Pagano, professor of public administration at the University of Illinois at Chicago. "These regional airports hope that if they can attract one low-fare carrier, another will follow," he said. "If it doesn't work, they can be caught holding a lot of debt."
And there is no guarantee that building terminals will attract airlines. Southwest, for example, has not added a city to its system since last October, when it began service to Norfolk, Va., and said it has no plan to add one at all this year. Instead, it will concentrate on expanding routes among places it already serves.
"We have to spend a lot of time and effort" to start service to a new city, said Richard Sweet, Southwest's executive director of marketing and sales.
Although it has not yet attracted Southwest, the Akron/Canton airport in Ohio has drawn AirTran, along with service by commuter airlines linked to Delta, Northwest, US Airways and United. Except for Northwest, all those parent airlines have hit rocky financial times.
While emphasizing that the airport welcomes all carriers, Kristie VanAuken, the airport's director of marketing, said she would prefer to add another low-fare carrier to Akron. While major airlines provide links to more destinations, the direct flights offered by low-fare carriers attract more new customers to the airport, which will handle about 900,000 passengers this year, up from 400,000 in the mid-1990's.
"Economically, it makes more sense for us to bring in a value carrier that can stimulate traffic," Ms. VanAuken said. The airport aggressively markets itself as a low-cost alternative to flights from Cleveland, an hour's drive away, and Pittsburgh, about two hours distant.
So eager are many communities to attract low-fare carriers that they have persuaded local businesses to pledge to give new airlines a set amount of business during their first years of service. This tactic, called "travel banking," has helped to persuade AirTran to introduce service in eight cities, including Gulfport, Miss.; Tallahassee, Fla.; and Wichita, Kan.
Kevin Healy, AirTran's vice president of marketing, asserted that the cost to corporations and communities of guaranteeing business is more than offset by what happens once AirTran arrives.
"When we enter a market, fares generally drop 50 percent and traffic rises over 100 percent," he said. "It's a win-win situation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Bishop International Airport in Flint, Mich., passengers board an ATA flight. James L. Rice III, airport director, says he has to prove to carriers that they can make money at the airport. (Photos by Jeff Kowalsky for The New York Times) Chart: "Flying to Flint"City officials in Flint, Mich., have actively courted low-fare airlines to their airport to spur economic development, and the arrival of carriers like AirTran and ATA has led to rapid growth at Bishop International, Flint's airport. Graph tracks passengers at Bishop International (monthly) on the following airlines from 1995-2002 (through july) NORTHWESTAIRTRANMIDWEST EXPRESS/SKYWAYDELTAATAUS AIRWAYSCONTINENTAL 2001 PASSENGERSDetroit: 31,992,200Grand Rapids: 1,829,300Flint: 564,500Lansing: 523,200Saginaw: 487,800Kalamazoo: 463,400 Map of Michigan highlighting Flint (Source: Bishop International Airport Authority; Michigan Department of Transportation)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (96%); AIRPORTS (92%); AIR FARES (91%); AIR SERVICE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (72%); COUNTIES (70%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BISHOP INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (FLINT, MICH) 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES; AIRTRAN AIRWAYS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE; RICE, JAMES L III 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) FLINT (MICH)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



81 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Before WorldCom, the Funeral Industry Set the Standard for Venality

BYLINE:  By ADAM COHEN 

 BODY:
The high point -- make that the low point -- of "The American Way of Death" is Jessica Mitford's account of a friend's attempt to bury a relative without spending a fortune. When the friend asked for an inexpensive redwood coffin, the funeral home agreed at first. But the salesman called back to say the deceased was too tall, and she had to buy a coffin that cost $100 more. When Ms. Mitford's friend balked, the salesman responded, "Oh, all right, we'll use the redwood one, but we'll have to cut off his feet."
 This summer it feels as if big business is letting us down as never before. But corporate scandals have been a part of American history since the Yazoo land fraud of 1795. Thirty-nine years ago Ms. Mitford exposed one of the most jaw-dropping of all: the great funeral industry scandal of 1963. Her findings, acerbically set forth in her surprise best seller, hold some important lessons for today's reformers. 
 This unlikely scandal was set off by an unlikely crusader. One of six daughters of the Baron of Redesdale, Ms. Mitford left the British aristocracy behind and married Bob Treuhaft, an Oakland trade-union lawyer. From him she learned that when working men died, their hard-won death benefits -- intended to support their widows and children -- invariably ended up in the pockets of unscrupulous undertakers.
On the trail of injustice, Ms. Mitford made undercover visits to funeral parlors and pored over back issues of Casket & Sunnyside -- and the rest is muckraking history. "The American Way of Death" soared to the top of the New York Times best-seller list, and ignited a firestorm. CBS turned it into an hourlong documentary, and newspapers from New York to San Francisco investigated local funeral practices. Ms. Mitford's encounters with shady undertakers and cemetery plot salesmen led her to some conclusions that apply to today's corporate scandals, or most likely soon will: 
1. Never underestimate corporate greed. Before her book came out, funeral directors presented themselves as humble comforters of the bereaved. But Ms. Mitford showed that they charged more to bury 1.7 million Americans a year than universities charged to educate 3.6 million. 
Many observers of today's scandals have been shocked by how far rich people will go to become richer. Bernard Ebbers, who took in more than $46 million at WorldCom, still grabbed nearly a million shares of hot I.P.O. stock, possibly illegally. Martha Stewart, who is worth a good fraction of a billion dollars, took the time to personally trade -- perhaps using insider information -- a few thousand shares of ImClone stock. Having met prosperous businessmen who would threaten to cut off a loved one's feet to make a few more bucks, Ms. Mitford would not have been a bit surprised.
2. Corporate crooks often tell us exactly what they're doing. Much of "The American Way of Death" is simply excerpts from the funeral industry's own publications. (The book "Successful Funeral Management" warned undertakers not to line up coffins by price, since it made it too easy for the grieving family to comparison shop.) So it is with the current scandal, where the most damning evidence is in many cases the wrongdoers' own words. Wall Street analysts issued "buy" recommendations while yukking it up in internal e-mails that the stocks were junk. C.E.O.'s made bullish pronouncements, duping their shareholders and employees, while filling out forms to sell their own stock. When their words are quoted back to them in legal indictments, it will be akin to what Ms. Mitford retorted to funeral directors who complained about her book: She could not see why they were unhappy, since it was "almost entirely given over to expounding their point of view."
3. Sometimes it isn't just the bad apples. President Bush has tried to argue that the misdeeds of Enron, WorldCom and the rest are ethical lapses of a few bad actors, and that the solution is criminal prosecutions. But the point of "The American Way of Death" is that the funeral industry as a whole was corrupt. "This would normally be the place to say . . . 'I am not, of course, speaking of the vast majority of ethical undertakers,' " Ms. Mitford wrote in the foreword. "But the vast majority of ethical undertakers is precisely the subject of this book." The only solution, she insisted -- as reformers today must -- was sweeping reform.
4. Reform comes slowly. For those hoping for meaningful reform now, the funeral experience is sobering. When "The American Way of Death" came out in 1963, the public was outraged. But despite a flood of angry letters, it took the Federal Trade Commission until 1972 to begin an investigation. It was 12 more years before it adopted -- over strenuous industry lobbying -- a rule instituting some of the reforms Ms. Mitford had recommended.
The new rule required funeral homes, but not cemeteries, to itemize services and costs in advance so consumers could decide which they wanted. Still, when Ms. Mitford died in 1996, much of her agenda had been blocked. The Senate held hearings this summer on a bill, to be introduced later this month, that would, among other things, require cemeteries to itemize costs -- just in time for the 40th anniversary of Ms. Mitford's explosive little book. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNERAL INDUSTRY (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CEMETERIES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); ETHICS (75%); HISTORY (73%); BESTSELLERS (72%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (66%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); LITERATURE (63%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%) FUNERALS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%) COHEN, ADAM; MITFORD, JESSICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: AMERICAN WAY OF DEATH, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



82 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Consolidated Freightways To File for Bankruptcy
Consolidated Freightways, one of the nation's largest trucking companies, said that it would shut down most of its operations immediately in a move that could result in the loss of at least 12,400 jobs.
 The 73-year-old company made the announcement after talks to secure financing from its banks and other lenders collapsed. It said it would seek bankruptcy protection from creditors. Page C4. 

China Presses for Oil Alternatives
Alarmed by violence and political volatility in the Middle East, China's leaders are aggressively developing alternatives to oil from the region. But a booming economy and rising sales of cars may propel China, however reluctantly, into the same sticky embrace with Mideast oil producers that the United States, Japan and other countries have accepted. A1.

The September Effect on Markets
Analysts say they see little evidence to suggest that stock market indexes are poised to move markedly higher. While there appears less risk that stocks will move through recent lows, recent experience shows that September has not been a month when spirits lifted and markets flourished. Market Place. C6.

Benchmark Indexes Fall Overseas
Stocks in Europe and Asia fell. In London, the benchmark FTSE 100 index lost 46.40 points, or 1.1 percent, falling to 4,180.90. In Japan, the Nikkei 225-stock average slid 1 percent, to 9,521.63, about 100 points above its 18-year low, reached in February. And in Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index slid 1.5 percent, to 9,896.98, a 5.1 percent drop in seven days. C8.

Telefonica to Sell Shares in Units
Spain's largest phone company, Telefonica, plans to sell shares in its Admira media unit and the television producer Endemol Entertainment Holding in an effort to reduce losses from a write-down of its European wireless businesses. C8.

Post-Enron Accounting Boot Camp
Many top executives and board members who attended a post-Enron accounting boot camp came away daunted and frustrated by the overwhelming message in almost every lecture: that the legal landscape is shifting and that the liabilities for directors are greater than ever. A1.

Bad Old Days in a Man's World
Liz Perks hung up her spurs as a business traveler nearly two years ago, after 15 years and about 50 countries. When she first started out, women -- who now account for about 40 percent of business travelers -- were a distinct minority. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C6.

U.S. Markets Reopen Today
The stock market and other financial markets in the United States were closed yesterday in observance of Labor Day. The overseas markets were open. The markets in the United States will reopen today.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Fewer Lost Days"Despite the many threats of strikes now, the United States has been losing fewer days to labor disputes since the 1970s. Last year it lost 1.2 million days, the lowest level since the government began keeping track in 1947. Still, a single dispute can have a big impact: in 2000, over 17 million work days were lost when 135,000 television, radio and film actors went on strike against advertisers for several months. Graph tracks work days lost from strikes and lockouts from 1947-2000 Includes only labor disputes involving 1,000 or more workers idled for at least one shift or day. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TRUCKING (90%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); US LABOR DAY (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CON-WAY INC (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); ENDEMOL ENTERTAINMENT HOLDING BV (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: CNW (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (90%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) EAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



83 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: China Struggles To Cut Reliance On MideastOil 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
Alarmed by violence and political volatility in the Middle East, China's leaders are aggressively developing alternatives to oil from the region. But a booming economy and rising sales of cars may propel China, however reluctantly, into the same sticky embrace with Mideast oil producers that the United States, Japan and many other countries have accepted.
 China's transformation from a net exporter of oil as recently as 1993 to a big oil importer has made it more attuned to events in the Middle East. Even as the Bush administration steps up threats to attack Iraq, Baghdad has been wooing the Chinese. Iraq's foreign minister, Naji Sabri, has just met here with Deputy Prime Minister Qian Qichen and other high-ranking officials, and the Chinese reiterated their opposition to the use or threat of force against Iraq. 
 A report in July by the U.S.-China Security Review Commission, a group created by Congress, warned that China's increasing needs for imported energy had given it an incentive to become closer to countries like Iran, Iraq and Sudan that are accused by the State Department of supporting terrorism. 
A "key driver in China's relations with terrorist-sponsoring governments is its dependence on foreign oil to fuel its economic development," the report said. "This dependency is expected to increase over the coming decade." 
The Chinese are trying to increase the production of oil and natural gas at home and buy more energy from elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, with projects from Australia to Siberia, and from their continental shelf to the deserts of Xinjiang province in the west, Chinese energy company executives and diplomats here said. 
But many Western experts predict that China's energy needs will grow far beyond those reserves and that recent efforts, including the increased use of natural gas, can only slow but not reverse the country's dependence on the Middle East, which now supplies three-fifths of China's oil imports. "They are going to be short such a significant amount of crude that there isn't any choice except to rely more on the Middle East," said David Pietz, a specialist on Chinese energy at Washington State University. 
China accounted for a quarter of the world's growth in oil use over the last decade, during the last several years becoming the fastest-growing consumer of oil. By 2030, according to the International Energy Agency in Paris, it will import as much oil as the United States does now, an eightfold increase over its current import levels. 
"This makes China's energy development critical not only for China but for the world at large," said Robert Priddle, the agency's executive director.
Energy security is a deeply sensitive subject in China, where self-sufficiency was a mantra during Mao Zedong's time. But officials now acknowledge that this is no longer realistic and are publicly worrying about the implications of this. 
Rising dependence on imports, "will dramatically increase the supply-side risks of petroleum resources," China's minister for state land and resources, Tian Fengshan, said in a rare statement on the subject in July, "and that will damage the country's capacity to ensure its oil resources as well as economic and political security." 
China's rising energy consumption also threatens to make it a huge contributor to global warming, by burning more fossil fuels.
In the late 1990's, even as its economy grew, China had actually reduced its emissions of the gases blamed for global warming -- mainly by switching factories and homes from coal to cleaner-burning oil and natural gas, and by moving to less energy-intensive industries like the production of consumer electronics and clothing instead of steel. But emissions appear to be increasing again, with coal consumption rising 5.4 percent last year while the use of oil and natural gas also rose. 
Growth in Chinese oil consumption has accelerated mainly because of a large-scale transition, still in its early stages, away from bicycles and mass transit and toward private automobiles. Car sales jumped 40 percent in the first seven months of this year compared with the similar period of 2001, although part of the gain reflected the increased affordability of cars as China's entry into the World Trade Organization forced it to reduce tariffs and increase import quotas. 
In the mid-1990's, state-owned Chinese companies purchased oil fields in Iraq and the Sudan, although international sanctions on Iraq have limited the development of the fields there and Sudanese civil war has periodically slowed production. 
More recently, China has been pursuing supplies of energy that are as reliable as possible, which usually means as far as possible from the Middle East. While some of the recent flurry of deals were in the works before last September's attacks, the Chinese have lent extra impetus to them lately. 
On July 4, a consortium of domestic and foreign energy companies announced that it would spend $3.3 billion to develop gas fields in western China and $5.2 billion for a pipeline to carry the gas across the country to Shanghai. On Aug. 8, China concluded an agreement with Australia to buy $11 billion to $13 billion worth of liquefied natural gas over 25 years for Guangdong province, China's most prosperous region in the south, and said it had begun exclusive talks with Indonesia to buy $8 billion to $10 billion of liquefied natural gas for Fujian province. 
Mark Qiu, the chief financial officer of Cnooc Ltd., a Chinese offshore drilling company, said in an interview here that planning was already under way to double Guangdong's purchases, by buying more gas from Australia or some other country, and possibly to double Fujian's purchases as well. Cnooc also bought half a dozen oil fields in Indonesia early this year and announced plans a week ago to pay $320 million for a 5 percent stake in the Northwest Shelf gas fields of Australia; it is negotiating to buy a stake in Indonesia's gas fields, too. 
Energy company executives here said that China is also exploring ways to buy more energy from Siberia. An oil pipeline is already being built from near Lake Baikal in Siberia to a giant Chinese refinery in Daqing in northeastern China, and a joint Russian-Chinese study is under way to build a gas pipeline, as well, to Daqing or Beijing from the Lake Baikal area, they said. 
The Chinese also invited Gazprom, the giant Russian energy company, to join a consortium developing the gas fields in western China, in a possible prelude to having the trans-China pipeline carry gas to Shanghai from far larger gas fields across the border in western Siberia. 
The Chinese military remains especially leery of energy dependence on the country's northern neighbor, Russia, according to a new paper on Chinese energy from the International Institute of Strategic Studies in London. The fear of such dependence on a nominal Communist ally took hold after severe border clashes in the 1960's, and has persisted over the years, first as reformist leaders in Moscow relaxed Marxist-Leninist precepts and then with the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. 
Deals are taking place in the context of a radically changed energy industry. In the name of deregulation, China has swung from a heavily bureaucratic, centrally planned economy to one having remarkably little energy policy planning at all.
China abolished its energy ministry in 1993, after years of bureaucratic struggles that pitted it against the coal, electricity and oil-refining industries, which were each their own ministries as well. But with the conversion of many of these para-industries into state-controlled, for-profit companies late in 1998, the result has been a near-absence of coordination. 
Another result has been an emphasis on energy production instead of conservation. Chinese gasoline prices now rank with those in the United States as among the lowest in the world for oil-importing countries, and are a third of retail prices in Europe, where steep taxes push the price to $4 a gallon or more to discourage gasoline use. The National People's Congress, China's Parliament, has been discussing the imposition of steep gasoline taxes here for two years, but has taken no action. 
The State Development Planning Commission is now setting China's energy policy on everything from pipeline routes to liquefied natural gas contracts with foreign nations. But the commission's energy staff numbers fewer than 20 people, who are hard pressed to address all the issues before them, said Xavier Chen, the China program manager at the International Energy Administration; the government's Energy Research Institute employs several dozen more. By comparison, the United States Energy Department has 16,000 employees, of whom at least 400 are involved in some way in the policy-making process, and hundreds more administer regulations.
While China's three main state-controlled, but publicly traded, energy companies -- PetroChina, Sinopec and Cnooc -- are aggressively exploring in China itself, executives at multinational companies are skeptical that they will find a lot of oil, although the executives see some potential for additional gas discoveries. 
"In terms of oil exploration and development, it is fairly mature," said Tan Ek Kia, the Beijing-based chairman of Shell's subsidiaries in northeast Asia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction near Suzhou, China, of a gas pipeline running from the far west to Shanghai. A shift to gas use will broaden China's energy sources. (Li Fengshan/Imagine China/ZUMA Press)(pg. C4) Chart/Map: "China's Thirst for Energy"China is looking to develop new sources of oil and natural gas within the country's borders and from Russia, Indonesia and Australia. But those reserves may not be enough to slow China's growing dependence on oil from the Mideast. Map of China highlighting:Gas or oil fieldExisting gas or oil pipelinePipeline (under construction or proposed) (Sources: International Institute for Strategic Studies; oil companies)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PIPELINES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (59%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); MIDDLE EAST (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JAPAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%) CHINA; RUSSIA; INDONESIA; AUSTRALIA; MIDDLE EAST; IRAN; IRAQ; SUDAN

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



84 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Tarnish Anew From Race for Mayor 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Not long ago, the District of Columbia was in danger of losing its reputation as the un-Chicago: the city that does not work. To the surprise of locals and visitors, potholes were filled and budgets were balanced. When people talked about the city's drug problem, they were not referring to the mayor's crack pipe.
 Now, thanks to the 2002 mayoral campaign, Washington's reputation for ineptitude may again be secure. After Washingtonians go to the polls on Sept. 10, it could take a week to count the votes, because neither of the leading candidates had the foresight to get his name on the ballot. Penmanship will be crucial as election officials try to distinguish which write-in votes are for "Williams" and which are for "Willie" or "Wilson." 
 The two leading candidates are Anthony A. Williams, the technocratic mayor thrown off the ballot for submitting thousands of fake signatures on his petition, and Willie F. Wilson, a populist Baptist minister who has been the spiritual counselor of Marion S. Barry, the former mayor who served 16 years in office and six months in prison. (The prison term, for using drugs, was between Mr. Barry's third and fourth terms as mayor.) When Mr. Barry campaigned with Mr. Wilson last week, it was not clear whether the endorsement would help or hurt Mr. Wilson. 
Mr. Williams, who became known for his bow ties and strait-laced demeanor when he was Washington's chief financial officer under Mr. Barry in the 1990's, won the mayor's race after Mr. Barry decided not to seek re-election in 1998. Mr. Williams was widely credited for improving city services, and he eliminated the deficits that had prompted Congress to strip Mr. Barry of much power.
Mr. Williams's re-election seemed assured until the discovery of the fake signatures (many in the same handwriting and using the names of prominent nonresidents like Martha Stewart and Tony Blair). Though the latest poll shows Mr. Williams far ahead of Mr. Wilson, the mayor is campaigning aggressively. While he exhorts voters to "do the write thing," campaign workers are preparing to hand out pencils and inked rubber stamps on election day.
"By all rights Tony Williams should be steaming to victory almost by acclamation, and instead his fate rests on punctuation," said David Axelrod, a Democratic political consultant from Chicago who has worked on mayoral races around the country, including Mr. Williams's 1998 campaign.
"It's a stunning development," Mr. Axelrod said, "but the truth is, my experience, he was always more interested in governing than in the mechanics of politics. That's a strength as a mayor, but it's a weakness in this situation. Almost any mayor has a political infrastructure that deals with basic housekeeping issues like petition gathering. He's just never built it, and at this point he doesn't need me to tell him it was a mistake."
Why does not Washington, like Chicago, have a mayor who can deliver services as well as collect signatures? One obvious answer is that for most of its history it had no chance to develop a political machine anything like Chicago's. Until the city was granted home rule in the 1970's, members of Congress controlled power and dispensed patronage.
"Most people from the outside are appalled by what they hear about the District of Columbia politics," said Dorothy Brizill, the executive director of DCWatch, a watchdog group that helped expose the fraudulent signatures in Mr. Williams's petition. "But most of them don't realize that it wasn't until 1974 that we elected our own mayor and City Council. Politically, Washington is like a developing country. We have not developed a political culture or a system to nurture leaders. We have difficulty, quite frankly, making the government run."
Washington's version of a political machine took shape in the 1960's and 1970's, a time of street protests, riots and Great Society programs. Garbage collection was not high on the urban agenda. Community group leaders and advocates, most notably Mr. Barry, came to power and used federal dollars to expand the city government and provide their allies in churches and community groups with money for ambitious programs.
"The vision in the 1970's was to make Washington the black city on a hill, a place more egalitarian, more caring, more open to black cultural expression," said Fred Siegel, a senior fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute in Washington and author of "The Future Once Happened Here," a study comparing urban politics in New York, Washington and Los Angeles that was published in 1997. "Marion Barry promoted those utopian visions even while he was running the city into the ground. Mayor Williams wants to make it a conventionally successful city instead of an expression of black liberation, and that's not acceptable to the followers of Barry who still believe in the city on the hill."
In the campaign, Mr. Williams has tried to rebut accusations that he is not "black enough" and that he favored white neighborhoods at the expense of Anacostia, the low-income and predominantly black neighborhood where Mr. Wilson's church is.
Although supporters of Mr. Williams produce statistics showing how much he has done for Anacostia, some concede that he has offended some residents there by seeming remote and high-handed. The way he shut down a public hospital infuriated many residents and has become one of Mr. Wilson's chief campaign issues.
Mr. Wilson, who decided to enter the race after Mr. Williams's name was taken off the ballot, is well known for political activism and for counseling Mr. Barry, one of the 7,000 members of his church. In his campaign, he has promised an ambitious array of social programs and adopted a slogan of "take a stand for all of Washington."
Mr. Wilson's critics accuse him of having been divisive in the past by allying himself with Louis Farrakhan and the leaders of a black nationalist school. One of his more quoted remarks was made in a boycott of a Chinese restaurant in 1987, when he told reporters that he was a forgiving man. "If we hadn't forgiven him," Mr. Wilson said, referring to the restaurant owner, "we would have cut his head off and rolled it down the street."
Mr. Williams led Mr. Wilson citywide by roughly a four-to-one ratio in a Washington Post poll published on Sunday, and Mr. Williams was ahead two to one even in Mr. Wilson's neighborhood. With many voters still undecided, the possibility of a relatively close and racially polarized outcome remains. That could complicate the next mayor's job.
Whatever the result, Dr. Siegel said, voters can console themselves with one enduring fact of Washington: there is only so much damage any mayor can do.
"Washington's economic future is largely assured no matter who wins," he said. "It's guaranteed by massive, endless subsidies from the federal government. Imagine how irresponsible politicians in New York could be if they didn't have to worry about Wall Street leaving. In Washington, they can indulge their fantasies because there's no accountability. No matter what the next mayor does, the federal government isn't going anywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Anthony A. Williams, greeting Jamila Vaughan, 6, last week, wants Washington to be a conventionally successful city, a scholar says.; The Rev. Willie F. Wilson, campaigning for mayor of Washington last week, has promised an ambitious array of social programs. (Photographs by Susana Rabb for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PETITIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); COCAINE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); ETHICS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ETHICS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; POTHOLES 

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (56%); MARTHA STEWART (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%) WILLIAMS, ANTHONY A (MAYOR); WILSON, WILLIE F (REV); TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



85 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Colombia: Exports Surge 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Colombian exports rose 3.3 percent in July on surging oil sales abroad, the government's statistics agency said. 
Total exports increased to $1.04 billion in July from $1.01 billion in the month last year, with the United States holding its position as the largest single recipient of Colombian goods as it bought more than 40 percent of the total. Sales of oil and its derivatives, the country's largest export, surged 18 percent to $272 million in the month. Coal, the second-biggest export, brought in $55.4 million, a drop of 21 percent from the same month last year. Coffee sales abroad fell 7.3 percent to $51.9 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (94%); TRENDS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); COFFEE (86%); COFFEE & TEA (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) COLOMBIA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



86 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2025 words

HEADLINE: In Cuomo's Record as HUD Chief, Bold Steps and Missteps 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
Late in 2000, as Andrew M. Cuomo neared the end of his tenure as secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, he ordered the agency to print 30,000 copies of a report about his years in office. This was no spartan government printing. It ran 150 pages and included a narrated compact disc and 19 photographs of Mr. Cuomo alongside such notables as Shimon Peres of Israel and Sarah Jessica Parker of "Sex and the City." 
 For Mr. Cuomo, the report summed up his most important battles and brightest achievements at HUD, the bloated bureaucracy he claimed to have transformed from a picture of waste, fraud and abuse into a model of government service. 
 But for Mr. Cuomo's critics, the $688,000 report, released just weeks before the end of the Clinton administration, symbolized how Mr. Cuomo attempted to use HUD as a springboard for his campaign to be governor of New York, which started just nine days after leaving Washington. 
In the leadup to the Sept. 10 Democratic primary, Mr. Cuomo has focused on his work at HUD in practically every campaign speech and television commercial. Besides claiming to have reinvented HUD, he paints his administration as a golden age for housing.
"We took this big old government that nobody could make work and we transformed it," Mr. Cuomo said in a recent debate with H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller and his opponent in the Democratic primary for governor. Mr. Cuomo boasted that during his administration HUD created more jobs, built more housing for the elderly, and fought harder against housing discrimination than anyone had done before. "I'm a can-do Democrat," he said, "and I believe we can do more and make Albany work better."
But there is another side to Mr. Cuomo's record at HUD, as even he acknowledged during the debate with Mr. McCall. Housing advocates say his initiatives were never free of political ambition. At times, that worked to the advantage of a particular program or issue, with Mr. Cuomo pushing hard and taking risks to achieve political goals. 
"I wouldn't want to see someone appointed secretary of HUD who wasn't ambitious," said John E. Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, an urban advocacy group that worked closely with HUD during the Cuomo years. "Massive problems require ambitious personalities."
But sometimes Mr. Cuomo's political drive was seen to work against the department's core mission of providing housing, with his introducing ambitious and well-publicized initiatives that later stalled.
"His goal was to improve the department because housing was the business he was in prior to coming to HUD," said Denise B. Muha, executive director of the National Leased Housing Association, which represents groups involved in federally assisted rental housing. "But his goal also was to run for office in New York. There was no one who didn't know that." 
Mr. Cuomo came to HUD as an assistant secretary in 1993, with a background in politics (working for his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo) and in housing. When he was in his 20's he built apartments for the homeless through a nonprofit group he founded, Housing Enterprise for the Less Privileged, or H.E.L.P. The group offered an approach to homelessness that combined housing with education, job training, help with substance abuse and mental health services. 
It was an approach that Mr. Cuomo later used to much praise at HUD.

A Department Evolves
 In 1997, he became HUD secretary, taking over a $30 billion department that top Republicans, and even Vice President Al Gore, considered expendable.
It helped that he served during a period of startling economic prosperity. Working with a mostly unfriendly Congress, he broke a logjam on reauthorization of thousands of rental housing subsidies, wrangled successively bigger budgets out of Congress, and pushed the department to become more aggressive on homelessness, tripling the amount of federal money to address the problem. 
Mr. Cuomo speaks of himself as having brought a different approach to government, and has boasted in his campaign of reorganizing HUD so successfully that the department was removed from the General Accounting Office's list of agencies considered "high-risk" because of management deficiencies.
That claim is only partially true. The accounting office did remove two HUD programs, development and community planning, from its watch list.
But two others -- single-family mortgage insurance and rental housing assistance -- remain on the list because of "significant weaknesses." And in January 2001, as Mr. Cuomo's tenure ended, the G.A.O. found that HUD still needed to shore up two important areas, human capital and financial management systems.
While his programs for the homeless were praised, other efforts were picked apart by angry community leaders and housing advocates, and the inspector general for HUD put out a stream of negative reports. 
One of the most controversial efforts was the 203k federal housing rehabilitation program, in which dishonest appraisers, real estate brokers and mortgage lenders acquired 500 buildings but never did the repairs and in some cases sold them to unsuspecting buyers, devastating parts of Brooklyn and Harlem. 

Kiosks and Controversies
 Some of the accomplishments Mr. Cuomo claims -- such as the reform of public housing -- involve programs that existed before he became secretary and cannot fairly be credited solely to him. 
But two programs -- HUD kiosks and the Officer Next Door program -- stand out as signature Cuomo initiatives, wholly conceived and executed during his tenure.
Though comparatively small in budget and modest in scope, they capture both the spirit and energy of the Cuomo years as well as their controversies and setbacks.
Tucked into an alcove in the Peter W. Rodino Federal Building on Broad Street in Newark, next to the automated teller machine and the Federal Express automated depot, is a machine resembling a large red jukebox. Anyone passing by could easily mistake it for another A.T.M.
During the Cuomo years, 106 of the boxes, called HUD kiosks, were placed in federal buildings and commercial spaces around the country. The on-screen information includes federally owned houses for sale and the location of nearby shelters for the homeless. Sixteen of the kiosks are inside HUD storefronts, which are in HUD buildings or commercial spaces.
The storefronts and kiosks were intended to serve as national models of more responsive government, a sharp reflection of Mr. Cuomo's attempt to reorganize the department, streamline its operations and generally make it more accountable to the needy people it is supposed to serve. 
"What Cuomo was arguing throughout his term was that as long as the public saw HUD as a failed agency, at best in league with the bad guys running buildings that were running the community down, you couldn't expect people to work with HUD to improve neighborhoods," said William C. Apgar, a senior scholar at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University who was assistant secretary of HUD under Mr. Cuomo. "The kiosks helped cast HUD in a different light." 
But when the office of the inspector general for HUD audited the $8.5 million storefront and kiosk program in March 2000, it concluded that the effort was poorly thought out, used infrequently by the public and largely a waste of taxpayer money. HUD has little if any measurable evidence that the expenditures for storefront and kiosk operations have benefited HUD customers, the audit concluded. 
Many specialists working at street level in the cities, where housing can be a life-and-death issue, scorned the kiosks. "The whole thing was kind of insane," said Ira J. Rheingold, executive director of the National Association of Consumer Advocates. He said he worked across the street from a kiosk in Chicago for five years and never saw it used.
"It just shows the disconnect between Washington and what goes on in the real world," he said. 
Jonathan J. Cowan, Mr. Cuomo's former chief of staff at HUD, said the kiosks won awards for innovation in government because of the way they enhanced public access to government. He said the inspector general's audit was politically motivated, as were audits of other HUD programs during Mr. Cuomo's tenure. 
To further improve access to the public, HUD storefronts were staffed by a new cadre of housing professionals called community builders, who were supposed to reach out to the needy.
But the builders, some from within HUD and others from outside, were widely seen as little more than advance political troops for Mr. Cuomo.
"It was not a worthwhile endeavor or a productive program," said Timothy G. Kaiser, executive director of the Public Housing Authorities Directors Association, who was a member of the advisory board of the community builders program. 
The inspector general's office criticized the community builder program and recommended that it be scrapped. Earlier this year, Mr. Cuomo's successor at HUD, Mel Martinez, eliminated the entire program.
Mr. Martinez is also weighing whether to shut down the storefronts and kiosks. Like the kiosks, the Officer Next Door program showed how Mr. Cuomo used his housing experience. It also showed how good ideas can trip over the reality of housing.
Under the program, law enforcement officers qualified for a 50 percent reduction in the price of a Federal Housing Administration loan-foreclosed property. In exchange, the officer agreed to live in the house for three years, stabilizing distressed neighborhoods. It typified Mr. Cuomo's approach to building communities, not just houses. 
"The theory was good," said Peter Dreier, a professor of urban policy at Occidental College and former director of housing for the City of Boston, "but it was hard to avoid scandals."
From the outset, some police officers used the government subsidy to buy properties in what were supposed to be distressed areas but were not. Some purchased multifamily buildings and rented out all the apartments, living elsewhere in violation of their contracts. 
In June 2001, the inspector general's office found serious abuses in 23 of 108 audited transactions, and indications that as many as one in four participants had violated the rules. By the time the program was shut down for several months in 2001, a nationwide investigation had found about 200 instances of abuse. Two dozen officers were indicted on charges of cheating the government. 
Mr. Cowan, Mr. Cuomo's former chief of staff, said the number of abuses was small when compared with the 3,800 homes sold to officers up to that time. "It's a big testament that the program is still around," he said. 
Since the program was reinitiated, an additional 2,200 properties have been sold to officers without any abuses being reported. But officials in the four cities audited in 2001 -- Miami, Memphis, Springfield, Mass., and Manassas, Va. -- say their police have stopped participating. In Memphis, city officials have set up their own program using municipal funds. 
"We decided to change the focus because it was somewhat tainted," said Robert Lipscomb, director of the Memphis Housing Authority, which administers the local program. "It is a very sound concept, but we didn't have good enough controls in place."

Policy and P.R.
 That same statement can be made of other Cuomo initiatives, housing experts say. From the effort to pay cash for guns turned in to public housing authorities, to the threat to use the authorities to sue gun manufacturers, some of his ideas made better public relations than housing policy. 
Throughout Mr. Cuomo's tenure, press releases streamed out of his office. He also traveled so extensively that Kit Bond, a Republican senator from Missouri who was a frequent critic, kept track of the secretary's itinerary.
And the glossy reports kept coming. The last one was completed in early 2001 and distributed days before Mr. Cuomo left office.
This time, Republicans complained so loudly that distribution was halted and the remaining reports were carted off to HUD's basement. A department spokesman says they are being recycled with other HUD documents.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew M. Cuomo, at work on a Habitat for Humanity home in 1997, has made his HUD tenure a cornerstone of his campaign for governor. (Associated Press)(pg. B5); Andrew M. Cuomo has claimed credit for transforming HUD. (Associated Press)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); POLITICS (72%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); HOUSING; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (59%) HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD) 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%); SHIMON PERES (56%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (55%) DEPALMA, ANTHONY; CUOMO, ANDREW M; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



87 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Haiti: Criticism From Rights Panel 

BYLINE:  By David Gonzalez

 BODY:
 The government has failed to stop the country's slide into lawlessness and social turmoil, a report by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights has concluded. 
The commission, part of the Organzation of American States, said courts were influenced by the government and armed gangs broke the law with impunity and likened the economic, health and social problems to serious rights violations. Foreign donors have suspended direct aid to the government until it resolves an electoral dispute. The Organization of American States, under pressure from Caribbean nations alarmed by Haiti's unrelenting poverty, is expected this week to consider a resolution that would unblock the aid. David Gonzalez (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



88 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Who'd Want to Govern New York State? 

BYLINE:  By Gerald Benjamin; Gerald Benjamin is the dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University of New York at New Paltz.

DATELINE: NEW PALTZ, N.Y. 

 BODY:
With one week left before the Democratic primary for governor, Carl McCall and Andrew Cuomo are vying to govern a state that may face the biggest fiscal crisis in its history. The pesky potential of third-party candidacies notwithstanding, New York's incumbent Republican governor, George Pataki, remains far ahead in opinion polls. His leadership after the attack on New York City a year ago, though not unflawed, created a measure of good will in the state's Democratic heartland. Mr. Pataki's "Southern strategy" -- a focus on the city and especially on its growing cadre of Hispanic voters -- is classic for an incumbent Republican and promises major electoral dividends. Equally important, the governor has plenty of money left to spend to bring his message home.
 Both Mr. McCall's candidacy and Mr. Cuomo's follow established patterns in New York politics. Like Malcolm Wilson, Hugh Carey and Mario Cuomo before him, Carl McCall is reaching for the top after a long career in elective office. He is relinquishing the office of comptroller, one of the most financially powerful elected state offices in the country, to seek the governorship. 
 Andrew Cuomo, like Averell Harriman, Nelson Rockefeller and Lewis Lehrman before him, is offering himself as leader of the out-of-power party without having held elective office. They were rich. He is famous: the son of a former governor, he was a member of Bill Clinton's cabinet and married a Kennedy. 
A race against an incumbent is always risky, but this Democratic contest has from the beginning been driven by reasons of personal timing rather than a pressing agenda that would captivate voters.
Mr. McCall is in his mid-60's; his run this year seems a now-or-never matter. Mr. Cuomo, a much younger man, might have waited. But there is no benefit to waiting if you want to be governor in New York. The state has no term limit for the chief executive (as do 39 others) and thus no guarantee of a shot at an open seat at a predictable date. And incumbent New York governors do stay on longer.
Thomas Dewey and Mario Cuomo served three four-year terms, Nelson Rockefeller three and part of a fourth term. There have been only two races since World War II in which there was no incumbent on the gubernatorial ballot. One of these was in 1982, although campaigns were launched well before the candidates learned that the sitting governor, Hugh Carey, would not run. Mario Cuomo was elected; Andrew Cuomo ran the campaign.
Unlike many other states, there are few other statewide elected offices in New York to use as a perch to wait out an incumbent governor. Besides, incumbents in those offices also tend to serve multiple terms. 
Incumbent Republican governor notwithstanding, the political numbers in New York offer plenty of encouragement to Democratic gubernatorial hopefuls. There are more than two million more Democrats than Republicans enrolled in the state. It was an anti-Cuomo vote that first elected George Pataki governor. Even then, the total vote on the Democratic line in 1994 exceeded that on the Republican; Mr. Pataki's third-party endorsements carried him in.
The challenge for Democrats is to expand the electorate and get their potential vote to the polls. It is no accident that the state constitution, written by Republicans, requires that governors in New York be elected in non-presidential years. Turning out voters is much harder without the stimulus of a presidential election. It's tough even in these uncertain economic times, with a massive fiscal crisis looming that may be as bad or worse for the state and New York City than that in 1975. Here, in time honored New York fashion, Democrats are complicit. Members of the Democratic Assembly have joined with the governor and the Republican Senate to paper over the crisis until all are safely reelected.
The fiscal mess we face ought to be the theme of this election. But it's hard to win an election by talking up and planning for a fiscal crisis; you don't gain friends by proposing less spending or more taxes.
Neither Mr. Cuomo nor Mr. McCall has found a mobilizing theme with this or any other issue. Instead, Mr. Cuomo runs as an outsider and a reformer. But a Cuomo married to a Kennedy is not credible as an outsider, and serious reform of state government seems an impossible dream -- even if Mr. Cuomo talks about it passionately. Mr. McCall, part of whose job as comptroller has been to serve as in-house critic of state government, has a record of proposing fiscal and budgetary reforms. But he has found little response from voters on this subject, and has focused on primarily on education -- everybody's issue.
There is one theme in this election that has nothing to do with issues, and that is the question of race and ethnicity. Andrew Cuomo's campaign seems to have little ethnic appeal. Perhaps this is because he can achieve no "first"; his father has already been there. On the other hand, if Carl McCall wins in the primary he will be the first major-party African-American nominee for governor of New York, offering New Yorkers a chance to make history. For that reason alone, his nomination is likely to increase turnout among black voters. Though the primary race seems oddly quixotic, it still holds a compelling logic for each candidate. Given the fiscal crisis New York faces, the general election is likely to produce the captain of a sinking ship. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%) BENJAMIN, GERALD (PROF); CUOMO, ANDREW M; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



89 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: In Colorado Race, 2002 Looks a Lot Like 1996 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 30 

 BODY:
To highlight his support for environmental protections, Tom Strickland recently took his campaign as Democratic challenger for the Senate to the top of Gray's Peak, one of the highest mountains in Colorado.
 But reaching the summit, Mr. Strickland found that others had beaten him to it. Waiting were a half-dozen giggling supporters of the Republican incumbent, Senator Wayne Allard, with their own campaign signs. 
 It was a rare moment of amusement in an otherwise nasty rematch of 1996, when Mr. Allard won an open seat by five percentage points. More often this year, the tone has been set by weeks of television attack commercials that link one or the other candidate to corporate scandals rocking the national economy.
For now, more than two months before the election, it remains uncertain whether Colorado voters are much interested in who might have done what. Both camps insist that the issue is Exhibit A for why the opponent should not be elected, and the two candidates continue to hammer away at each other for real or perceived acts of irresponsibility.
Yet for Democrats, who are trying to tie Republicans to corporate shenanigans in campaigns all across the country in a year in which a single seat determines control of the Senate, the strategy in Colorado has worked about as well as Mr. Strickland's climbing expedition.
Recent independent statewide polls have shown Mr. Allard holding a modest but steady lead, with the only good news for Mr. Strickland being that Mr. Allard's support remains under 50 percent with about a fifth of respondents undecided. About 36 percent of Colorado voters are registered as Republican and 30 percent as Democrats; 34 percent are unaffiliated. 
"I don't think Strickland can survive if he is not within eight points, at four or five, right after Labor Day," said Floyd Ciruli, whose firm conducted a poll in mid-July that showed Mr. Allard leading Mr. Strickland by 46 percent to 37 percent, with negligible support for third-party party candidates. "Unless he can close, it's going to be tougher for him to get money in a year money is tight."
A poll conducted two weeks ago by The Rocky Mountain News had Mr. Allard in front by 42 percent to 34 percent.
On the stump, Mr. Allard, 58, speaks proudly of his annual visits to all 64 Colorado counties, his humble roots as a veterinarian and state lawmaker and his efforts in the Senate to improve the quality of life in Colorado through support for land preservation and environmental cleanups. Never mind that he voted for oil exploration in Alaska. He calls himself a more experienced candidate than he was in 1996, as he said in an interview this week, and "a more electable-type person" than Mr. Strickland. 
Mr. Strickland, 50, favors broader access to health care, higher tax deductions for college tuition and more vigorous prosecution of white-collar crime. He said he had a better financed campaign than he had six years ago and positions that were more in sync with mainstream Coloradans than those of Mr. Allard. 
Yet true to the tenor of recent television advertisements, each man is just as eager to blast the other as unsuitable for the Senate because of ties to big telecommunications companies under criminal investigation -- Mr. Allard to Qwest, Mr. Strickland to Global Crossing. 
The barrage began with a mid-summer commercial in which Mr. Allard took credit for strong opposition in the Senate to corporate wrongdoing. The Strickland camp quickly objected, saying Mr. Allard had been lax on the matter and only mentioned it in the heat of a tight race and growing public disgust with misbehaving executives.
Mr. Strickland criticized Mr. Allard for joining a dozen other senators in asking the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2000 to delay stricter accounting standards that might have reduced the financial damage at companies like Enron. Mr. Strickland called the request "a complete betrayal of public trust."
He also accused Mr. Allard of promoting a merger in 1999 of US West of Denver and Qwest, also of Denver, rather than with Global Crossing, which is based in Bermuda. Over the years, Qwest has been one of Mr. Allard's largest campaign contributors.
But Mr. Allard has found Mr. Strickland an easy target for response. In commercials and interviews, he has characterized Mr. Strickland as a "multimillionaire-lawyer-lobbyist" who lobbied for Global Crossing and made $25,000 through a Global Crossing stock offer a day before the offer was made public.
He also blames Mr. Strickland for the dark tone of the race, saying, "It has gone negative very early, and I'm not happy about that."
Both candidates have offered plausible explanations for every accusation, and the explanations, too, have endured attacks from the other side.
By November, however, the outcome of the election could depend less on arguments of economic stewardship than on voter registration and turnout, even in a state hard hit by the sagging economy through layoffs and loss of savings.
Among the major races in Colorado this year, five of the seven House seats are considered safe, and Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, has a huge lead over his Democratic challenger, Rollie Heath.
E. Scott Adler, a professor of political science at the University of Colorado, said that whichever party could generate more interest in the two competitive House races, the Fourth Congressional District and the new Seventh, could provide a strong boost for its Senate candidate.
"Because of the voter registration, it's really going to be tough on Strickland," Mr. Adler said. "He's the one who really needs the turnout. To me, that makes him a real long shot, and for Democrats, that's a pity. Allard this year was beatable."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Strickland, left, is trying to persuade Colorado voters that he should replace Senator Wayne Allard, a Republican. Mr. Strickland, a Democrat, lost to Mr. Allard by five percentage points in a bitter race in 1996. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); CLIMBING (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); US LABOR DAY (62%); TUITION FEES (60%); SCANDALS (54%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (50%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%) ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: WAYNE ALLARD (90%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; ALLARD, WAYNE (SEN); STRICKLAND, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) COLORADO

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



90 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Compromise Brings Accord on Renewable Energy Closer 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The first of 100 world leaders who are to address the environmental summit meeting here issued strong criticism today of rich polluting nations -- the United States chief among them -- for refusing to ratify a treaty intended to prevent the devastating effects of climate change.
 But despite the pointed remarks from the leaders of France, Britain and other nations about the treaty, known as the Kyoto Protocol, American officials succeeded tonight in winning an important concession. 
 A plan for converting world energy production from fossil fuels to solar and wind power and other renewable energy sources no longer contains a commitment to ensuring that such sources account for 15 percent of world energy output by 2010.
Officials said delegates were close to final agreement on the plan, now that the provision has been dropped. 
Yvon Slingenberg, a senior member of the European Union's delegation, expressed disappointment that the United States and other countries had refused to embrace the targets for renewable energy.
"We would have preferred to have a target and we would have preferred to have a timeline," Ms. Slingenberg said. "This was not possible. We tried until the very end. At a certain stage there is a point of exhaustion."
Environmentalists, too, were critical, saying the United States, which has opposed targets and timetables, had repeatedly watered down the text. "It's a shameful abrogation by governments who should be delivering on protection of climate, on protection of air quality," said Kate Hampton, international coordinator of Friends of the Earth, an advocacy group.
The United States says it prefers concrete action to target dates that might ultimately prove meaningless. In getting the time frame eliminated, it found allies in developing countries, as well as Japan and Australia.
Paula Dobriansky, under secretary of state for global affairs, defended the Bush administration's position, saying, "The document clearly highlights the need to increase access to modern energy services and signals the valuable role renewable energy will play in the future."
During the course of the meeting, the administration has acceded to other proposals, agreeing for example on efforts to halve the number of people without sanitation by 2015 and to reduce the loss of endangered plants and animals by 2010. 
But the concessions have not quieted the discontent among America's allies, who argue that as the world's most powerful nation, the United States should do more to protect the environment. "Our house is burning down and we're blind to it," President Jacques Chirac of France said in his speech here today. "The earth and humankind are in danger, and we're all responsible. It's time to open our eyes."
"Climate warming is still reversible," Mr. Chirac asserted. "Heavy would be the responsibility of those who refused to fight it."
In his speech, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said leaders could not afford to allow poverty and environmental degradation to continue unchecked. "Kyoto is right; it should be ratified by all of us," he said. "The consequences of inaction on these issues are not unknown. They are calculable. Poverty and environmental degradation, if unchecked, spell catastrophe for our world. That is clear."
In speechmaking today, several leaders took the opportunity to weigh in on their own specific issues concerning the environment, politics and one another.
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela called for the creation of a global fund to ease poverty. President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda urged rich countries to open their markets to products from poor countries.
Mr. Chirac called for an international solidarity tax on items like airline tickets and health products that would create a pool of money to help developing nations.
And President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe received rousing applause from his fellow heads of state when he told Mr. Blair to stop interfering with his land redistribution program.
Mr. Mugabe, saying sustainable development was not possible without land reform, said: "Blair, keep your England. Let me keep my Zimbabwe."
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who is representing the United States in the absence of President Bush, will take his five minutes at the podium on Wednesday, officials say.
American officials dismissed the criticisms made today, saying most delegations had responded positively to American contributions to the summit meeting's action plan.
John F. Turner, assistant secretary of state for oceans and international environmental and scientific affairs, said he was pleased with the commitments that had been made. He pointed to agreements on sanitation, improved governance and a deal to restore depleted fisheries, where possible, by 2015.
As for global warming, Mr. Turner reiterated Washington's position. Mr. Bush asserted in rejecting the Kyoto treaty that it was unfair that the accord did not bind developing nations, especially China and India, that are also major emitters of gases that trap heat in the atmosphere.
"We're strong supporters of the compromise on climate change," Mr. Turner said. "We have our sovereign choice to pursue another path." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, left, and President Jacques Chirac of France at a news conference during the world summit conference on sustainable development in Johannesburg. Both criticized the United States for refusing to ratify the Kyoto treaty on global climate change. (Joao Silva for The New York Times); President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe listening to a speech at the meeting. When his turn to speak came, he defended his land policy. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (64%) ENERGY AND POWER; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; WINDMILLS; SOLAR ENERGY; GAS (FUEL); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (76%); TONY BLAIR (56%) SWARNS, RACHEL L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



91 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: A Bit Ambiguously, Russia Backs Iraq Over U.S. Threat 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The Iraqi foreign minister, Naji Sabri alHadithi, stopped here briefly today, seeking renewed support from a generally sympathetic Kremlin against the threat of an American effort to remove Saddam Hussein from power. He got it, but not as unambiguously as he might have liked. 
 After meeting with Mr. Sabri al-Hadithi, the Russian foreign minister, Igor S. Ivanov, at a news conference with the Iraqi, repeated the Kremlin's position that military action against Iraq "would seriously undermine the already difficult situation in the Persian Gulf and the Middle East" and make prospects for a permanent settlement of the region's problems even more remote. 
 Mr. Ivanov also said Russia hoped the United Nations Security Council would not be asked to approve military action against Iraq, "so there will be no need for a Russian veto." 
"We are closely analyzing statements made by Washington to the effect that there is no alternative to a military solution," Mr. Ivanov said. "We have not found a single solid argument in those statements to the effect that Iraq poses a threat to U.S. national security. These statements are political." 
Mr. Ivanov's other statements today were slightly more circumspect. In a speech at the Moscow State Institute of Foreign Relations earlier today, he endorsed the notion of taking "pre-emptive measures" against global problems, including international terrorism, but only through the United Nations or other alliances. 
He said countering terrorism had become the central problem since Sept. 11. President Bush has couched his campaign for the removal of President Hussein as a pre-emptive strike against a regime building weapons of mass destruction. 
Mr. Ivanov also applauded statements today by Iraq's deputy prime minister, Tariq Aziz, indicating that readmitting United Nations weapons inspectors to Iraq was "still under consideration." Mr. Aziz, in Johannesburg for the world summit meeting on the environment, said he hoped to meet Secretary General Kofi Annan to discuss options for ending the crisis. 
There was little else in Mr. Ivanov's remarks today to suggest that Russia's longstanding view of the Iraqi situation has changed. 
Russia has sought for years to bring about a political solution to the standoff between Iraq and the United States, mostly with proposals under which weapons inspectors might return to Iraq after a four-year absence. In return, the United Nations would eventually end economic sanctions imposed after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990. 
But Iraq so far has rejected all Russian overtures. While Russia has steadily opposed American military action to end the stalemate, it has insisted that Mr. Hussein readmit arms inspectors and meet other conditions the United Nations has imposed for lifting the sanctions. 
In his remarks today, Mr. Ivanov did not disavow reports that Russian officials in Washington have met with Iraqi opposition leaders who are bent on deposing Mr. Hussein, though both he and Mr. Sabri al-Hadithi took pains to dismiss the importance of those meetings. 
"That was an ordinary event which, we think, was artifically blown out of all proportion by certain mass media," Mr. Ivanov said. "As every diplomat knows, one has to maintain contacts with the other party in order to have broad and objective information. But this in no way indicates any adjustment of Russia's policy line on Iraqi settlement." 
Mr. Sabri al-Hadithi called the exiled Iraqi opposition leaders tools of American and British intelligence and said the meeting had no impact on Iraq's relations with Russia. 
In fact, while Russia is opposed in principle to unilateral action against Iraq, politicians here have openly suggested that Russia's stake is economic, and that it has little interest in preserving Mr. Hussein's rule if he can be removed in an internationally acceptable manner. 
There was no indication today that Russia and Iraq were on the verge of a new trade agreement. Iraqi officials had suggested that their country was on the verge of signing a deal to purchase $40 billion or more in Russian goods over the next decade, a figure Russia's Foreign Ministry quickly disavowed. 
Russian officials have said they are working on a "framework accord" for expanding trade, but only within the confines of existing United Nations sanctions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraq's foreign minister, Naji Sabri al-Hadithi, left, with his Russian counterpart, Igor S. Ivanov, after their talks yesterday in Moscow. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (86%); COUPS (86%); VETO (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%) IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) WINES, MICHAEL; SABRI AL-HADITHI, NAJI (MIN); IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (57%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (78%) IRAQ; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



92 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Passing The Buck 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Somewhere I read about a conference on optimal economic planning, some years before the fall of Communism. The Soviet delegate declared that his planning agency always did the best it could under the circumstances. Hence, Soviet planning was always optimal.
 The man from Gosplan would have gotten along fine with Alan Greenspan. Mr. Greenspan disclaims any responsibility for the immense market bubble that inflated on his watch: his policy was right, he says, because he did the best he could. 
 In his keynote speech at last week's Jackson Hole conference, Mr. Greenspan offered two excuses. First, he claimed that it wasn't absolutely clear, even during the manic market run-up of 1999, that something was amiss: "it was very difficult to definitively identify a bubble until after the fact -- that is, when its bursting confirmed its existence." Second, he claimed that the Fed couldn't have done anything anyway. "Is there some policy that can at least limit the size of a bubble and, hence, its destructive fallout? . . . the answer appears to be no."
I wasn't alone in finding this speech disturbingly evasive. As The Financial Times noted, policy makers always have to act on limited information: "The burden of proof for a central bank should not be absolute certainty." The editorial also reminded readers that while Mr. Greenspan may now portray himself as skeptical but powerless during the bubble years, at the time many saw him as a cheerleader. "The Fed chairman . . . may well have contributed to the explosion of exuberance in the late 1990's with his increasingly bullish observations."
Moreover, there is evidence that Mr. Greenspan actually knew better. In September 1996, at a meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, he told his colleagues, "I recognize that there is a stock market bubble problem at this point." And he had a solution: "We do have the possibility of . . . increasing margin requirements. I guarantee that if you want to get rid of the bubble, whatever it is, that will do it." 
Yet he never did increase margin requirements, that is, require investors to put up more cash when buying stocks. Indeed, aside from giving one speech about irrational exuberance, followed by a small rise in the Fed funds rate, Mr. Greenspan did nothing at all. He now says he could not have done more, but how does he know when he never even tried? What really happened, one suspects, was that in early 1997 Mr. Greenspan discovered that his tentative efforts to deflate the emerging bubble made investors furious, and lost his nerve. 
Worse, he then began giving ever more euphoric speeches about the wonders of the new economy. Surely he must have known that these speeches were interpreted by investors as a retraction of his own previous warning, as a signal that soaring stock prices were justified after all.
Still, what's most important about Mr. Greenspan's defensiveness is not what it says about the past, but what it implies about the future.
You see, Mr. Greenspan is the only economic policy maker we have. Fiscal policy is effectively off the table, partly because of long-run deficits worsened by Mr. Greenspan's own bad advice. Funny how he wasn't sure that Nasdaq 5,000 was a bubble, but believed that 10-year surplus projections were reliable enough to justify a huge tax cut. In any case, serious fiscal action is ruled out by the Bush administration's relentless opportunism; every proposal for short-run economic stimulus turns into an attempt to lock in permanent tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy. So if the recovery continues to lose momentum, it's up to the Fed to take matters in hand.
Yet Mr. Greenspan's remarks reinforce a worry I've had for the past few months: that Fed officials will respond to continuing economic weakness not with action but with excuses. 
We've seen the process all too clearly in Japan. First officials at the Bank of Japan denied that they had any responsibility to fight economic stagnation; their mandate, they said, was solely to ensure price stability. Then, as inflation gave way to deflation, even price stability was no longer their business. In other words, rather than risk trying to solve Japan's problems and failing, the bank has repeatedly redefined its mission so that it doesn't even have to try. 
I never thought the Fed would go down the same path. But after listening to Mr. Greenspan explain why he couldn'ta and shouldn'ta, I'm starting to wonder. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); BONDS (62%); PRICE INCREASES (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



93 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: America's Failed Frontier 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: TAYLOR, Neb. 

 BODY:
It's time for us to acknowledge one of America's greatest mistakes, a 140-year-old scheme that has failed at a cost of trillions of dollars, countless lives and immeasurable heartbreak: the settlement of the Great Plains. 
 The plains, which have overtaken places like Appalachia to become by far the poorest part of the country, represent a monumental failure in American history. To understand more I came here to Loup County, officially the poorest county in the United States, with a per capita income of $6,600 (New York County, or Manhattan, is the nation's richest, at $90,900). 
 In fairness, Loup doesn't look poor, and it's so rich in warmth, community spirit and old-fashioned friendliness that it's just about impossible for a stranger to pay for a meal here. The tiny school, the only one in the county, has student lockers with no locks; and outside, students' cars are not only unlocked, but the keys are left in the ignition. 
Yet Stewart Switzer, a 17-year-old senior, says that if he could go back in a time capsule and talk to his great-great-grandpa when he was settling here a century ago, his message would be: Don't stop here. Keep on going.
It might have been sage advice. Loup County's population peaked at 2,188 in 1910, but now it's down to 600. It lost its only grocery store in August, and with people fleeing, an average house in Taylor, the county seat (population 180), goes for just $6,000. 
As my colleague Timothy Egan noted in a brilliant article about the Great Plains in The Times last year, more than 60 percent of the counties in the region lost population in the last decade. In North Dakota, 47 of 53 counties lost population, and at this rate it'll eventually have to merge again with South Dakota to create a single state of Dakota.
This vast region in the middle of America, more than five times the size of California, now meets the 19th-century definition of frontier, with six or fewer people per square mile. Instead of the frontier closing, as Frederick Jackson Turner declared a century ago, it is expanding, and we may look back on large-scale settlement of the Plains as a fluke, a temporary domination now receding again.
The aridity of the Great Plains is partly to blame for the failed land development here, but fault also lies in the vapidity of American farm programs -- which President Bush and Congress are now expanding. It was, after all, a web of subsidies and government land promotion schemes that lured people to the Great Plains in the first place. 
President Bush signed a $180 billion farm bill this year, with the backing of many Democrats as well as Republicans, after a gutless surrender to lobbyists for wealthy farmers. But the program will actually aggravate rural distress.
Subsidies do nothing to help hard-working ranchers here, because the money overwhelmingly goes to crop farmers rather than livestock owners. Worse, much of the money goes to the most prosperous families (47 percent of commodity payments go to farmers whose household income is more than $135,000), who use the cash to buy up more land. Subsidies thus accelerate the consolidation of farms that is already depopulating rural areas.
Tom McNeil, a genial 66-year-old cowboy, has a sprawling 5,000-acre ranch that a few generations ago would have supported many homesteading families. But now, with just a horse and a pickup -- and even after two heart bypasses and a heart transplant -- the tireless Mr. McNeil ranches the land singlehanded.
I thought that was something, and then he took me to a next-door neighbor (six miles away) who pretty much on his own ranches 12,000 acres. 
Farm policy's focus needs to shift to rural business development, to help people find new sources of income. For example, a fourth-generation cattle ranching family here hopes to survive on its land by opening a cozy lodge so that tourists can come to hunt, fish or help with the branding (www.calamusoutfitters.com). 
President Bush's support for agricultural welfare (with considerable Democratic backing) contradicts every value he stands for and reflects a complete capitulation to a calculus of vote-buying. America's rural policy today is about where Soviet industry was in the 1980's: the leadership knows that its policies have utterly failed but lacks the courage to reform them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (83%); HISTORY (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TRENDS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) AGRICULTURE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POPULATION; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRAIRIES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%) KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) UNITED STATES; GREAT PLAINS (US); NEBRASKA; LOUP COUNTY (NEB)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



94 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: White House Memo; 
A Silence That Coolidge Would Envy

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: NEVILLE ISLAND, Pa., Sept 2 

 BODY:
President Bush is well practiced at strategic reticence: his normal affability and Texas backslapping can be flipped off instantly when he is not in the mood to answer questions, or when he senses that unscripted comments could make a politically uncomfortable moment even worse.
 But as the summer has drawn to a close, Mr. Bush has nurtured silences that even Calvin Coolidge would envy. Ensconced on his ranch last week, he kept reporters at bay and let Vice President Dick Cheney do all the talking about the administration's thinking on Iraq. When he emerged for obligatory events, like campaign appearances last week in Oklahoma and Arkansas or today's talk here at a Labor Day picnic with the carpenter's union (a favorite because last year it split with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., a Democratic ally), Mr. Bush has stuck closely to last spring's well-worn scripts about chasing down Al Qaeda and getting Congress to pass his energy and domestic security bills. 
 So what are his thoughts about the national security advisers from his father's administration who have taken to the airwaves and op-ed pages, suggesting that he may be making a huge mistake by careening toward a confrontation with Iraq without the support of allies or Arab nations? Mr. Bush has avoided the question, and the inevitable follow-ups about whether his Republican critics are speaking for his father or Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. (The critics deny it.)
How about the estimates last week that federal deficits are likely to deepen throughout the Bush presidency? The president who a few months ago confidently predicted that deficits would be shallow and brief has not talked about it.
The sharp rebukes delivered by federal courts over how the administration has dealt with deportation hearings and Americans caught up in the terrorism roundups? The president, a spokesman said in Texas, has not voiced an opinion.
White House aides say there is nothing unusual going on: like most other vacationing Americans, Mr. Bush was trying desperately to eke out a few last moments of relaxation, a difficult enough task for a man who starts each morning with the C.I.A. and F.B.I.'s threat assessments.
But as a confidant of the president said the other day, "this hasn't been the most pleasant summer" on the ranch. Mr. Bush, his friend said, "doesn't sound like a man eager" to get back to what promises to be a tough fall, what with wrangling with the Senate, a frenetic campaign schedule for the midterm elections and continuing arguments with the allies on issues like the environment and Iraq.
Presidential moods are difficult to measure from a distance, of course, and reporters always whine that they hear too little from the presidential lips. Officially, the White House says Mr. Bush "looks forward to getting back to business." 
But there is no question this has been a summer of mounting discontents. Like the economy, the battle against terrorism Mr. Bush talked about today seems to be moving sideways. While he appeared relaxed as he shook hands today at the invitation-only picnic outside Pittsburgh, the easy laugh Mr. Bush displayed a year ago this week at an off-the-record barbecue with reporters has not been heard by the press corps for some time.
Mr. Bush declined to hold a similar event this year, perhaps wisely, choosing to entertain volunteers and locals instead. Nor did he show up at the Coffee Station, his town's meeting place, which features prominently in his speeches as a place where he stays in touch with real America. He has stayed far from reporters in his last public appearances.
Perhaps Mr. Bush does not want to let on about his thoughts until Sept. 11, when he is will lead the day of national reflection and commemoration. Perhaps he is thinking about all the wrangling ahead with a Democratic Senate that is blocking major elements of his agenda.
But some of his aides concede that something else is at work. All the questioning of his Iraq policy -- by his father's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, and former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, the man who saved the Florida recount for Mr. Bush -- has stung.
"First, this is a president who doesn't like policy issues and fissures in his own team being aired in public," a senior official said over the weekend.
The most withering assessment came just as Mr. Bush was corralling the presidential dogs, Spot and Barney, to make the trip back to Washington. (Barney seemed particularly reluctant to leave his Texas freedoms and had to be carried aboard Air Force One.)
As they flew back, Lawrence S. Eagleburger, a lifelong Republican and for a time the elder Mr. Bush's secretary of state, was on the NBC program "Meet the Press" suggesting that the Bush team's problems might be explained by inexperience, and asking why Mr. Cheney had not backed up his accusations that Iraq was on the verge of obtaining nuclear weapons. 
"If we are so clear in our own minds that this is a real danger, why can't we convince our NATO allies of that fact?" Mr. Eagleburger asked. He added, "There is a disconnect here, and I don't understand it."
One of the mysteries of the last week of August is why Mr. Cheney was doing all the talking on the tough issues, while Mr. Bush avoided any mention of Iraq. Instead, the president stuck to a standard menu of education reform, the need for energy and domestic security legislation, and a vow to go after any executives who are "cooking the books."
One theory was that Mr. Cheney was testing the international waters. Mr. Bush has learned the advantages of keeping his options open until the last moment, and it is easier to call back a vice president's lines than it is to call back a president's.
Another theory, denied by the White House, was that Mr. Cheney was subtly pushing his boss. The vice president's position that going through the United Nations for further inspections of suspected weapons sites is a dangerous waste of time seemed to contrast with General Powell's public insistence that the United States needs to do so to build an international consensus. Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, who said reporters were making "much ado about no difference," added that "Iraq changes positions on whether they'll let the inspectors back in more often that Saddam Hussein changes bunkers."
And would Mr. Bush break out of his own bunker and perhaps have a news conference upon his return to Washington? "Point noted," Mr. Fleischer said. "Nothing is planned. We'll let you know."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush yesterday after a speech to the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners on Neville Island, Pa. Mr. Bush has been keeping the press corps at arm's length as summer winds down. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US LABOR DAY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); AL-QAEDA (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); DEPORTATION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LABOR DAY; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); AFL-CIO (56%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (74%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



95 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Policy Makers Hone Debate: When to Hold, When to Fold 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Sept. 1 

 BODY:
If the central bankers, government officials and economists who gathered here this weekend for the Federal Reserve's annual retreat agreed on anything, it was that policy has little success when used to fine tune the economy.
 Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, took the notion of policy impotence a step further, asserting that there was nothing the central bank could reasonably do to avert or deflate a stock market bubble. 
 Yet the policy makers here also seemed to have an uneasy feeling that they will increasingly be called upon to deal with complex domestic and international issues that will demand activist, imaginative steps on their part. In a crisis, they concluded, their reluctance to put even their limited powers to work will be swept away by an imperative to use monetary and fiscal policy more aggressively than ever. 
The dissonance between action and inaction reflected a collision of two developments over the years.
One is the growing, though still much-debated, thought that interest rate policy is best focused on fighting inflation rather than on stimulating economic growth. A close corollary is that government tax and spending policy is too tangled up in politics to be timely and effective in dealing with an economy's cyclical ups and downs.
The other development is the experience of Japan. Neither fiscal nor monetary policy has succeeded in bringing Japan's economy, the world's second largest, out of its decade-long slump, and yet the need for new policy initiatives to prevent a complete meltdown is growing more urgent. The possibility that the United States, like Japan, could be at risk of a deflationary spiral that defies traditional policy remedies was assumed, if largely left unspoken, here.
The questions over fiscal policy were captured in a discussion over a paper presented by Alan J. Auerbach of the University of California at Berkeley.
Mr. Auerbach's main conclusion was that discretionary fiscal policy -- meaning political choices over taxes and spending -- "has effects, but leaves us with little evidence that these effects have provided a significant contribution to economic stabilization, if they have in fact worked in the right direction at all."
In other words, attempts by governments to address economic weakness have not proved to be a good way of smoothing out the business cycle.
Martin Feldstein, a Harvard professor who is the president of the National Bureau of Economic Research, agreed with Mr. Auerbach's findings, saying they confirmed what has become conventional wisdom among many economists. But Mr. Feldstein told the conference that there should be an exception: when a country faces a deflationary spiral of the sort dogging Japan.
In such a case, Mr. Feldstein said, governments should use fiscal policy in a way that increases incentives for consumers to spend and businesses to invest without increasing the government's budget deficit. In Japan's case, he prescribed a plan in which the government would gradually increase, for several years, the value added tax applied to all goods and services and simultaneously reduce income tax rates. Such a plan would encourage consumers to buy now before the price went up and would not cost the government any revenue.
At the same time, Mr. Feldstein said, Japan could stimulate business investment by enacting a big investment tax credit and offset it by an increase in the corporate income tax rate. The investment credit would gradually decline over time, and the corporate income tax would fall, giving companies an incentive to invest sooner rather than later, again without worsening the budget deficit.
Mr. Feldstein said an aggressive fiscal policy would be vital in such a case because the effectiveness of monetary policy would be limited. He criticized the current thinking within the Federal Reserve about how a central bank should respond to the threat of deflation, defined as a generalized decline in prices.
Within the Fed, there is considerable support for the idea that a central bank should cut interest rates aggressively if signs of deflation emerge, even if rates are already low or even if they are approaching zero. Mr. Feldstein said that using such a "hyperexpansive" interest rate policy could inflate a bubble in stocks and other assets and that popping a bubble could well destabilize the economy.
"An excessively easy monetary policy is a dangerous tool," he said.
Other economists said Mr. Feldstein's concern about an asset-price bubble seemed out of place when discussing an economy whose main problem is declining prices and demand. And they debated, without reaching a consensus, a number of other ideas for dealing with a situation like Japan's.
One of the most provocative ideas was put on the table by Lars E. O. Svensson of Princeton, who proposed what amounted to a big but temporary currency devaluation as a way to encourage prices and demand to rise. His idea was widely criticized; Michael Mussa, a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund who is now with the Institute of International Economics, noted that the fund's articles of confederation expressly forbid devaluations for the purpose of increasing international competitiveness.
Mr. Svensson also ignited a heated debate by proposing that central banks explicitly acknowledge how much their inflation-fighting policies are costing the economy in lost output and jobs.
His idea was a new twist on the old debate about whether central banks should focus exclusively on price stability or should also seek maximum economic growth. It won some support from other economists who said that central banks are always after maximum economic growth even if they cannot openly acknowledge it in the face of pressure from markets, which can severely punish any perceived lack of inflation-fighting willpower.
But his idea was mostly criticized either as unworkable, since no one has a clear idea of what an economy's maximum sustainable growth rate really is, or unwise because it would inevitably distract from a central bank's inflation fighting role.
Hanging over the conference were the question of what policy makers could do to deal with stock market bubbles and Mr. Greenspan's conclusion that the answer is not much.
"There was a sense of frustration that we couldn't deal better with the asset price bubble," said Laurence H. Meyer, who was a Fed governor through most of the Wall Street boom. "But I don't think anybody has come up with a strategy that people feel would have gotten the job done."
To criticism by economists here like Henry Kaufman that Mr. Greenspan could have done more to keep stock prices in check by making a public argument that Wall Street had pushed itself to irrational levels, Mr. Meyer said central bankers could not use their positions to destroy wealth.
"That's a politically untenable situation for a central bank to be in," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEFLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POLITICS (71%); BONDS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) WYOMING, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) JACKSON HOLE (WYO)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002 



96 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA; 
What Failed in TV Pilots Brings Laughs in a Club

BYLINE:  By Marc Weingarten

 BODY:
"Last week we had a 100 share of people watching TV in a nightclub," the comedian Beth Lapidus told a packed crowd at Moomba in West Hollywood, a halogen-and-red-velvet nightclub where Jeff Goldblum has a weekly jazz piano gig and Rosanna Arquette's brother Alexis is host of a karaoke night. But there will be no hipster posturing tonight, just videos of television shows that never made it to prime time.
 "The Other Network," a weekly series in which failed pilots are screened for Moomba patrons, is a runaway hit. Ms. Lapidus, who founded the Los Angeles comedy group Uncabaret with her husband, Greg Miller, is the creator and host of "The Other Network," and it's a fascinating peek inside the harsh world of television pilots, where many are picked, but few are chosen. 
 The four main and two smaller networks produce roughly 130 pilots every season, of which about 35 pass muster. An overwhelming percentage are comedy pilots. With a potential motherlode of syndication revenue awaiting the lucky producer who is graced with a "Seinfeld"-like hit, the successful sitcom is a holy grail for comedy writers and stand-up comedians who think they have stumbled onto the premise that just might click.
Most failed pilots are seen only by the family of their creators and the executives who rejected them, which is why "The Other Network" is such a revelation.
On this night something called "The Lemur," featuring the stand-up comic Greg Behrendt as an obnoxious drive-time D.J. and Moon Zappa as his long-suffering sidekick, gets big laughs. It's a knowing, uncanny parody, but Mr. Behrendt says in prescreening introduction that Comedy Central did not pick it up as a series because a focus group did not think the comic was joking. "It was the lowest-tested show for Comedy Central ever," Mr. Behrendt told the crowd without a hint of irony.
The pilots in "The Other Network" hardly adhere to the usual sitcom template. Jack Black and Ben Stiller's show, "Heat Vision and Jack," is a bizarre amalgam of "The Twilight Zone," "Second City TV" and "The Six Million Dollar Man." "Next!," a would-be Fox series produced by Bob Odenkirk, is a sketch show that whipsaws from gag to gag. Judd Apatow's "North Hollywood" features Judge Reinhold playing "Judge Reinhold, struggling actor."
Ms. Lapidus's Uncabaret has been a finishing school for many creators of "The Other Network" show. "For the creators of these pilots," she said, "there's always the hope that you're going to be the one show that will provide the authentic voice on the air. They're doing the work they really want to do, going for that little piece of the market that will get it. Some of the shows aren't wholly successful, but they're really interesting experiments."
The behind-the-scenes narratives for failed pilots of "The Other Network" are strikingly similar. Virtually all of the show creators introduce their shows as great notions that were watered down by benighted executives too timid to go out on a limb. Cynthia Greenberg, a writer who collaborated with Judy Toll on a snappy workplace sitcom called "Me and My Needs," almost sounded contrite when she told the Moomba crowd, "Judy didn't want a workplace."
"The network will find an original voice, and then some of their notes will start to dilute that voice," Ms. Greenberg said the day after the screening. "I just think it's always amazing when executives risk trusting the vision of a writer they know is good. Look at the people who had strong visions of what they wanted, like Larry David or David Kelley. They had a lot more room to make their own choices."
To hear participants in "The Other Network" tell it, focus groups are the most pernicious momentum killers. If a network is interested in a pilot, they corral a random group of viewers into a screening room and hand each of them a box with a dial on it that measures their response to every aspect of the show. If a pilot tests poorly, chances are it has reached the end of its development road.
"Testing is dumb," Mr. Odenkirk said. " 'The Wayne Brady Show' tested amazingly, and it didn't last a season. Something like 'Seinfeld' wouldn't test well, but it had somewhere to go. So many shows the networks produce are hot for one run and burn out. You think we're going to see a fifth season of 'The Osbournes'?"
Mr. Apatow called the pilot process "an insane system."
"There's always a set of questions," he said. "Will women like it? What about older people? Will kids be offended? Are the characters likable? That's why the networks didn't want 'The Sopranos': it broke all the rules of likability." He said there was pressure to find actors who were both good-looking and hilarious. "It's the 'Friends' mind-set," he said. "But the truth is, most funny people look like Jack Klugman."
Despite the frustration and incessant head-knocking, these television writers say they will continue to make pilots in the hope that one kernel of an idea will blossom into a thriving franchise. Mr. Odenkirk remains ready to pitch the network on something else. Mr. Apatow is also fiddling around with some ideas. "I'm always up for trying again," he said. "It's really fun, until the moment you're unemployed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greg Behrendt, left, and Mike Gandolfi introduce their pilot, "The Lemur," at Moomba in West Hollywood. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BEN STILLER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



97 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Shares Fall 3.2% to a 19-Year Low 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
The main Japanese stock index plunged 3.2 percent today, reaching a 19-year low and reawakening fears that Japan is about to be swept by another banking crisis.
 With American markets closed for the Labor Day holiday on Monday, Japanese analysts, investors and money managers seemed to be taking their cues today from mounting evidence that Japan's mild recovery may halt or reverse if the American economy falters again. 
 Figures released by the Japanese government last week confirmed that Japan's economy remains highly dependent on exports for the meager growth it has managed recently. Any slackening of demand in the United States for Japanese goods could throw Japan back into recession. And the signals from the United States have not been very promising. 
Japanese banks are very vulnerable to slides in the stock market because they hold huge portfolios of stocks and depend on them for much of their capital. In the past, the banks had great leeway in deciding how to value the stocks on their books, and could ignore short-term market swings; the portfolios were useful in generating capital gains on appreciated stocks to cushion profits. 
The banks needed that cushion because their fundamental business, making loans, has been weak for years. Interest rates are near zero, demand for loans is falling, and despite growing write-offs, the mountain of nonperforming loans keeps growing.
But new laws require the banks to revalue their portfolios using market prices at the end of each fiscal half-year. The next deadline comes Sept. 30. If the markets keep sliding for the next few weeks, the banks may face an ugly reckoning when they close their books for the half-year.
The twin worries -- over the economy and the financial system -- have further undermined an already bearish stock market. The Nikkei 225 index has fallen for seven consecutive sessions and given up more than 8 percent of its value since Aug. 26, closing today at 9,217.04, a level not seen since Nov. 7, 1983.
Big exporters like Sony and Matsushita Electric Industrial, the country's two consumer electronics giants, have been hit hard. So, too, have been the banks' own stocks. Mizuho Holdings, the largest bank group, fell more than 9 percent today; its nearest rival, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking, fell 8 percent, and Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial fell 7 percent.
Japan's banks and insurers typically hold large blocks of stock in many of their clients, a practice long used to cement business relationships. But as the economy soured in the 1990's, the banks sold many of these holdings to generate profits when their lending business could not. Most of those unrealized gains have now been used up or overtaken by falling stock prices.
"Every time the index falls, it hurts the banks," said Tim Marrable, a bank analyst at Indo Suez Securities in Tokyo. "The upshot is their portfolios are all out of cushion and they are all under water."
Japanese investors have often in the past looked to the government to take steps to prop up the market, but the finance minister, Masajuro Shiokawa, said today that his ministry had no plans for special measures now.
Mizuho Holdings also came under intense criticism today from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. The city governor, Shintaro Ishihara, threatened to shift some of its 1.7 trillion yen ($14.39 billion) in deposits to rivals, including Citibank, if Mizuho does not improve service to the city's residents and businesses.
Mizuho Holdings was created in April through a merger of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Fuji Bank and the Industrial Bank of Japan. The merged company was immediately troubled by a multitude of computer failures and other integration problems that angered retail customers and cost corporate clients millions of dollars.
Mr. Marrable of Indo Suez said he did not think the Tokyo government's threat was idle posturing. The comments by Governor Ishihara surprised analysts because he is regarded as an ardent nationalist. 
But he also has a history of combative relations with the banks. Two years ago, he tried to impose a tax on the largest banks' revenue based on their size, arguing that the banks were not paying their fair share because of the paper losses they were recording. His effort was ultimately defeated in a court challenge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yesterday's plunge in stock prices, shown on a display in Tokyo, added to jitters about Japan's recovery. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); BONDS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INTEREST RATES (51%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); PANASONIC CORP (52%); SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP (51%)

TICKER: MTU (NYSE) (58%); 8306 (TSE) (58%); PC (NYSE) (52%); 6752 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (51%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



98 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2107 words

HEADLINE: How To Boil Four-Star Water 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY

DATELINE: YOUNTVILLE, Calif., Aug. 29 

 BODY:
The joke was going to be that in order to get into the French Laundry I had to get a job there. And like a lot of wisecracks, this one contained more than a kernel of truth. Despite what one reads about the dot-com debacle, the Silicon Valley money that helped transform this one-time mining, timber and prune growing region into a viticultural wonderland still seems immune from what most Americans would consider economic reality. For the moment, at any rate, there is no apparent shortage of lotus eaters willing to spend the $300 or so that dinner for two can easily cost at Thomas Keller's celebrated Yountville restaurant. 
 "We have to say no, unfortunately, a lot of the time," a waiter explained to a customer last week. "But we do have a waiting list, and I encourage people to put their names down, because you never know when something will open up." 
 It never does. At least, it hasn't for me in the eight summers that I have migrated to this valley, visiting generous friends. I have tried pulling strings to snag a French Laundry reservation, worn out the redial button, and driven often past the restaurant's modest fieldstone building, once a brothel, with longing in my heart. But mostly my pals and I just grilled food at home. 
Then, a friend alerted me to L'Ecole des Chefs, a program that allows what its originator, Annie Jacquet-Bentley, refers to as "passionate cooks" to spend time as stagiers, or apprentices, in the kitchens of world-class chefs like Guy Savoy, Daniel Boulud and Mr. Keller. Founded in 1999, the program was soon folded into the upscale Relais & Chateaux syndicate. The affiliation added scores of chefs to the roster, so that now passionate and prosperous amateur cooks can hone their skills with one of nearly 100 professionals in 17 countries throughout North and South America, Europe, Asia and Africa.
Pros do this all the time, of course. Kitchen hierarchies are notoriously medieval in their structure. Novices serve time as scullery serfs as they work toward the privilege of trailing a pastry chef or a garde-manger; seasoned workers perform unpaid drudgery in return for what amounts to a stove-side master class. Students at what is now called L'Ecole des Chefs Relais Gourmands bypass the usual flying skillets and backbreaking hours slicing carrots for the stockpot, though, and invert the occupational formula entirely by paying for a chance to be, pardon the expression, a fly on the wall.
And they pay richly. The fee for two days in Mr. Keller's kitchen was $1,400. This was subject to approval of my application, and exclusive of other requirements like black chef's pants, black shoes with nonskid soles, and a tool list that read like the armamentarium for a battle of the Iron Chefs. 
I applied. I was accepted. I drove to Yountville on a recent August day when the temperature hovered near 100 degrees. I was handed a French chef's coat, a French blue apron, and hugely to my surprise, was immediately put to work. 
Of the several ways to interpret this article's opening sentence, the one that surprised me was philosophical. As a perk of my expensive internship, I did eventually get into the French Laundry. I did unexpectedly find myself inducted into an echelon of customers that the restaurant's reservation book terms PX's (interior code for V.I.P.'s). I did dine on an extraordinary improvised multicourse meal that is Mr. Keller's customary way of rewarding favored regulars for their patronage. 
But I also got into the French Laundry in another sense altogether, one that had to do with Mr. Keller's intensity of focus, his relationship to the market, to techniques of cooking, serving, sanitation, management and also, ultimately, to finesse. 
What I did not do is learn very much about how to cook. The printed schedule for my abbreviated "stage" (most interns spend five days at the restaurant) was efficiently broken down into increments of about an hour. 
On paper, Day 1 was dedicated to visiting a local purveyor with the chef de cuisine, Eric Ziebold; preparing pasta with a commissaire, Donald Gonzales; and getting an introduction to sauce making and the organization of ingredients and tools that, in classic French cuisine, is called mise en place. On paper, Day 2 would see me learning rudiments of pastry making with the pastry chef, Sebastien Rouxel; doing a stint trimming meats with the butcher, Ryan Fancher; learning fish butchery with another chef, Jonathan Benno; and arranging canapes with Jonas Lundgren, a chef de partie. 
Some of these things occurred. Some did not. The reasons were fluky and as subject to whims of temperament as is anything that happens in a professional kitchen. I found myself being conducted deeply into the arcana of meat preparation by an enthusiastic Mr. Fancher. The fish butcher, on the other hand, barely gave me the time of day.
In no particular order and to no very evident purpose, I accumulated a hodgepodge of culinary lore. Waste nothing. Wash as you go. Trim the sinews on steak by stroking the knife in smooth arcs. Prick the inner membrane of a rabbit kidney with your thumbnail and it will slip away as easily as a silk sock. Use the dull edge of a blade to squeegee fish you plan to saute with its flesh on and it will cook evenly all the way through. Salt water for vegetables until it tastes like the ocean. The secret ingredient of a restaurant kitchen is a good supply of C-fold paper towels. 
I was destined to be surprised about tools at the French Laundry, since the technology in use there is little more complex than what you would find in many kitchens at home. And the kitchen itself, while white-tiled and gleaming, is a good deal smaller, at roughly 600 square feet, than the culinary luxury liners that are the norm in certain neighborhoods of New York. 
Except for an ice cream maker the size of a Chevy transmission and an electric fish poacher resembling a Lilliputian sitz bath, there were few fancy gadgets. The one that seemed to excite Mr. Keller most was a Raytek MiniTemp -- a gizmo that digitally reads surface temperature and that resembles a toy gun. 
"Isn't that great?" he asked on Tuesday, as he zapped the contents of a refrigerator drawer. "When the food inspectors come in and start saying, 'It's too cold, it's too hot,' you can just show them this." He grinned.
Hanging above the threshold to Mr. Keller's kitchen is an enamel sign with a dictionary definition of a favored word. "Finesse," it reads. "Refinement and delicacy of performance, execution or artisanship." It is no secret that Mr. Keller was not always renowned for his finesse, and that his highly pitched scale of standards was often expressed with performances not notable for their delicacy. "I don't explode anymore," he once told a reporter. "I let it out in different ways."
That was in 1996, two years after Mr. Keller first assembled nearly 50 limited partners and the $1.2 million it took to purchase the original French Laundry from its longtime owners, Don and Sally Schmidt. Mr. Keller's French Laundry was the culmination of a journey that began at the Palm Beach Yacht Club in the South Florida restaurants where his mother was a dining room manager, and where -- according to a well-burnished legend -- he stepped in to replace a chef who quit without notice, and learned to broil a lobster tail by consulting with his older brother, Joseph, who was already a cook, on the phone.
Since that time the trajectory of this chef with no formal training has carried him to New York, where he worked at the Polo restaurant under Patrice Boely, to stages at Michelin-starred restaurants in France, to a stellar but doomed stint as the chef at Rakel in Manhattan, and to his 1997 award from the James Beard Foundation as the Outstanding American Chef.
Nowadays, the French Laundry is a global destination, a conglomerate that extends to an award-winning cookbook now in its 13th printing and to Bouchon, Mr. Keller's bistro-style restaurant down the road. And it will soon include a boulangerie, an inn and spa in Yountville designed by the architect Antoine Predock, and an as-yet unnamed restaurant set to have its debut at the AOL Time Warner building when it opens in New York. 
French Laundry, the diffusing empire, seemed pretty remote on the days I spent there, when Mr. Keller's focus was like a tightly focused arc of white light. The atmosphere of near silence in the French Laundry kitchen has often been noted. Yet that hardly conveys a level of concentration that probably wouldn't feel out of place at Livermore lab. From the vantage of the small garden, where diners can peer through the kitchen windows, everything seems evenly paced and mellow. Why would it not? There are, after all, just 62 seats and rarely more than 90 people being fed on a busy night. 
Yet distributed among those people, on a variety of tasting, a la carte and improvised menus, are as many as 900 separate dishes, composed of ingredients from 300 purveyors, and rendered over a day whose two culinary shifts end at 2 a.m. and begin again at 5:30 a.m. 
There are 102 styles of plates at the French Laundry. There are 83 people on staff. There are preparations that, while theoretically familiar to anyone with a smattering of training in classic French cuisine, have been tweaked and pushed well beyond the limits of rote. 
The pepper confetti, for instance, that Mr. Keller uses as a garnish -- sparingly enough to save it from seeming like an anachronism left over from the first wave of California cuisine -- is created by first flaying red, green and yellow bell peppers, and then slicing their lobes to the thinness of onion skin. The slices are then julienned and laid on trays to dry slowly on shelves suspended above the 800-degree stovetops. The resulting flakes are not much larger than grains of the fleur de sel that Mr. Keller favors; so delicate, in fact, that they make actual paper confetti seem crude. 
It is in a weirdly accreted blur of details like this that I passed my two days in the French Laundry kitchen, being handed along from one worker to the next, from cold room to front room, from stations where a pastry chef merrily blasted creme brulees with a propane torch to the cold-room shelf where a butcher shouldered aside boxes of calfs' feet to make room for a tub of some marmoreal reduction made from the head of a pig. 
At a certain point, I, too, began to feel like a reduction. It happened while the canape chef was attempting to explain a contraption used to snap the dome off an egg.
The egg would eventually be emptied of its contents, sterilized and then refilled with a white truffle custard. The custard would be thinly glazed with another truffle sauce. The egg would be set in a cup and ornamented with a papery oblong potato chip. The chip, in turn, would have a single strand of chive embedded at its translucent center; how, I never learned. 
That almost everything in Mr. Keller's kitchen was similarly considered, recast and rendered as an essence of itself, made a certain kind of sense, given an anonymous quotation that he keeps on the clipboard hanging above his desk. "If we did all of the things we are capable of doing," it reads, "we would literally astound ourselves."
As I observed Mr. Keller ranging around his kitchen, trimming the bright flesh of a red snapper, tweaking spears of baby leeks on a plate of salad until the arrangement pleased his eye, the lesson of his process began to come clear. Like all good lessons, it seemed both too simple and, ultimately, profound enough to justify the price of admission. It was this: Think about the food.

What You'll Need
THE French Laundry asks interns from L'Ecole des Chefs to bring the following.
2 pairs black chef pants
1 pair black shoes, with nonskid soles
1 French knife
1 paring knife
1 slicer
1 serrated knife
1 palette knife
1 peeler
1 timer
2 pairs of scissors (heavy duty and all purpose)
1 pair of fish tweezers
Assorted saucing spoons

Who, Where And How Much
THROUGH L'Ecole des Chefs Relais Gourmands, amateur cooks can serve as interns to nearly 100 chefs in 17 countries.
The following are among the participating chefs.
DANIEL BOULUD -- Daniel, New York.
LUDOVIC LEFEBVRE -- L'Orangerie, Los Angeles.
ALAIN PASSARD -- L'Arpege, Paris.
GUY SAVOY -- Restaurant Guy Savoy, Paris.
MICHEL TROISGROS -- La Maison Troisgros, Roanne, France.
KIYOMI MIKUNI -- Mikuni, Tokyo.
Information on internships is available at www.ecoledeschefs.com or (212) 856-0115. A five-day internship costs $1,900 to $2,600, and a two-day program costs $1,100 to $1,400. Lodging is available at some restaurants that are part of Relais & Chateaux properties.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MASTER CLASS -- At the French Laundry in Yountville, Calif., above, the chef, Thomas Keller, top, gives the author, an intern, points on filleting. Left, a finished dish at the restaurant: sauteed turbot cheeks with fried cilantro. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F1); WITH THE RIGHT KNIFE, OF COURSE -- An intern from L'Ecole des Chefs chops salmon at the French Laundry for the restaurant's cornets of salmon tartare with red onion creme fraiche. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; photographs of Alain Ducasse and Irene Wong, below, by Barbara Alper for The New York Times); WRIST ACTION -- Kevin Toyoda, right, a chef at the French Laundry, whipping chocolate. (pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (88%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); APPROVALS (60%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



99 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Ah, Sweet Mysteries Of Trenton, She's Got 'Em 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
As backdrops for best sellers go, this is an unlikely city. The architecture ranges from state office buildings that seem Soviet inspired to dilapidated old Victorians and row houses. The downtown nightspots can be counted on the fingers of one hand, the hotels on one lonely finger. The city empties out at 5 past 5, as the bureaucrats make a beeline for the suburbs. There is not even a movie theater or a mall worth walking into.
 But with her eight comic crime novels featuring the bumbling, big-haired bounty hunter Stephanie Plum, Janet Evanovich has made herself Trenton's de facto poet laureate, turning a colorless state capital into the kind of place that thousands of her readers actually want to visit, and that no resident would ever want to leave. 
 It would not be too much of a stretch to say that the Plum series, which began in 1994 with "One for the Money," has elevated Ms. Evanovich, a onetime romance writer, into the whodunit pantheon alongside Sue Grafton and Sara Paretsky, Robert B. Parker and Carl Hiaasen. Each of her last three books had its debut on the New York Times best-seller list at the No. 1 position, and the latest, "Hard Eight" (St. Martin's Press), has sold 500,000 copies since June. 
It would not be too much of a stretch, either, to say that Ms. Evanovich has done more for Trenton's reputation than anyone since George Washington rode over here in a boat. Boston's literary presence is far bigger than the Spenser novels, of course, and Chicago would not be a lesser place had V. I. Warshawsky never been dreamed up.
"We have people who come in all the time asking for mysteries set in specific places, like New York, Paris, London, Venice, you name it," said Tom Cushman, manager of Murder Ink, a specialty bookshop on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. "But we've yet to have anyone ask for a mystery set in Trenton."
This is a city that shows its bruises, after all: a 7.5-square-mile patch of concrete where the state doglegs around a bend in the Delaware River, where factories once spewed smoke and churned out rubber, wire and Lenox china until the big industries fled half a century ago, leaving the dwindling working-class population with a hollow shell of an economy, persistent poverty and a steady supply of crime.
But in Ms. Evanovich's hands, Trenton becomes a tight-knit home where for all the crime, residents could not feel safer, since everyone knows your business, your neighbors watch your back, and even your grandmother carries a gun; where the food is too good to resist, the men are too hot to resist and excitement is always just a fugitive-recovery assignment away.
The most visible reminder of Trenton's manufacturing might is the neon motto on a bridge: "Trenton Makes, the World Takes." Today that is just a cruel joke. Even Ms. Evanovich, 59, arguably the city's biggest claim to fame these days, isn't a product of Trenton. She grew up in South River, a small suburb three exits up the New Jersey Turnpike and only became familiar with Trenton when visiting her father at St. Francis Hospital, in the city's old-line Italian neighborhood of Chambersburg.
A pastry shop first lured Ms. Evanovich up the street from the hospital, and soon she was exploring the neighborhood further, tasting food, asking questions and looking into windows. What she found -- and what she portrays in her books -- is not all that different from what she had experienced as a girl, she said on a recent visit here.
"No kid was ever snatched off a bike when I was growing up, because everyone was watching," she said. "And I understand how a funeral parlor can be a social center. We didn't have a country club, but we did have two really good funeral parlors. Rezem's did the best makeup. Four or five nights out of the week the ladies would come over to my aunt's house. They'd go over the obits and decide which ones to go to."
A stylized, slightly anachronistic Chambersburg -- a place she has largely imagined but could not have invented -- provides the center stage for Ms. Evanovich's elaborate plotting. Her supporting characters seem cast from the sitcom mold: Lula the sidekick, a trigger-happy, very-big-boned ex-prostitute who loves to eat but does not take to being called fat; Grandma Mazur, who crashes funerals and occasionally overturns open coffins; Joe Morelli, the police detective with whom Stephanie enjoys a lust-hate relationship; and Ranger, a seemingly superhuman bounty hunter and bedmate who mysteriously appears and disappears like the wind.
As for Stephanie herself, Ms. Evanovich, drawing on her long experience with romance heroines, has wisely dreamed up a gumshoe any reader could love, or at least understand. Stephanie Plum is a woman in her 30's with a pet hamster, a pocketbook full of makeup and mace, and a dangerous array of irrepressible appetites and impulses: for men, for clothes and cars, for doughnuts and Tastykakes, for getting into trouble, and even -- dare she admit it? -- for her mother's pot roasts and pies. 
"She's a very average person," Ms. Evanovich said. "We all know who she is. We could go out and eat pizza with her. Yet she has this tenacity to succeed."
Ms. Evanovich's reviews have consistently been as strong as her sales. A typical notice for "Hard Eight" came in The San Francisco Chronicle, where a reviewer called it "most emphatically not Raymond Chandler but, like his work, a piece of finely crafted prose." A critic in The Washington Post called the book a guilty pleasure, saying, "Just when the slapstick tires you, there's a wonderful laugh, a smart one-liner, a tart bit of dialogue, a nice turn on your expectations."
Mr. Cushman of Mystery Ink said: "Of the female mystery writers, she is definitely the funniest one going these days -- one that we not only sell a ton of but that we can wholeheartedly recommend. And a lot of times those do not necessarily coincide."
Ms. Evanovich and Trenton have quite happily adopted each other, to tell from the love fest that ensues when she shows her face in town, which invariably means vodka fettucini at Marsilio's and cookies from the Italian People's Bakery.
In her books, Trenton cops seem unable to solve any crimes on their own and instead use Stephanie as the ultimate decoy, piecing together cases by picking up the pieces she sends flying. But no offense is taken at police headquarters, where Ms. Evanovich was given a three-hour tour on her most recent visit.
Two lieutenants, Robert Szejner and Joe Juniak, both of whom make cameos in the Plum novels, squired Ms. Evanovich from the bail counter and the holding tank to the basement police academy to even the motor pool, where one of the mechanics, Craig Chapman, asked for Ms. Evanovich's autograph. 
"On account of her, my wife's reading now," Mr. Chapman said. "She's a crossing guard and got hit by a car. She was so bored, but her girlfriend gave her the first book. She read the first eight in a week. Now she's waiting for the next one."
In the detective bureau, Capt. Robert Tedder pointed out that the real murder rate in Trenton was only 15 or 20 a year, a far cry from the body count in her novels. Yet he obligingly revealed that the night before, a body had been found at the new Marriott, the city's only hotel.
Perhaps it was a good omen, given Ms. Evanovich's arrival in town, someone said. "We think its an overdose," Captain Tedder said, letting a smile slip out. "But we're not ruling anything out."
Ms. Evanovich understands why Trenton police officers and Chambersburg restaurateurs get a kick out of her books. And she banks on it. "People in Jersey have a sense of humor about themselves, and they just love the attention," she said.
But she has had to take precautions, for example by changing the names of Trenton streets, to protect the innocent from having their lawns trampled. "My fans do go," Ms. Evanovich said. "They'll take vacations and walk around and look for the places in the books."
Her growing following is forcing other precautions as well. The Trenton Marriott was nearly the scene of a disaster in June, when 3,000 people mobbed a book signing that Ms. Evanovich thought would draw perhaps 1,000. She spent five hours scrawling her name. Next year, she said, she may rent Trenton's minor-league hockey arena.
Ms. Evanovich, who will add a Christmas-season Stephanie Plum novella to her schedule of a book a year, has a simple explanation for why the series is taking off among readers far afield from the New Jersey watershed. "It's very, very much about middle America," she said. "It's this little ethnic community in the Burg, mostly Italian, a little Hungarian. But I'm getting letters from people all over: Are you sure Stephanie isn't Jewish?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janet Evanovich in Trenton, the setting of her Stephanie Plum mystery novels. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE (75%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (73%); BOOKSTORES (73%); SUBURBS (71%); POETRY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



100 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Builds Up Its Trade-Talks Team 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: BRASILIA 

 BODY:
Until recently, Brazil's trade negotiators would compare themselves, only half-jokingly, to their 1998 national soccer squad, which lost the World Cup to France when no worthy replacement could be found for the injured star striker Ronaldo.
 "Unless you have substitutes who are up to the mark, you risk losing the match," said Roberto Giannetti da Fonseca, who recently stepped down as head of Brazil's chamber of foreign trade. 
 "Our trade negotiations were in the hands of very few experts -- say half a dozen," Mr. Giannetti said. "Holidays, illness, a wedding, a death in the family, anything could virtually halt an important round of talks." 
This year though, Brazil clinched a historic fifth World Cup victory. And Mr. Giannetti says his country is also "on the way to forming a winning squad of negotiators."
Brazil is going to need them.
Slumbering for decades behind a high wall of import tariffs, Brazil, South America's economic giant, has unilaterally opened its market over the last decade and is now negotiating major trade accords on three fronts: with the United States, to form the Free Trade Area of the Americas; with the European Union, as de facto leader of South America's trade bloc, Mercosur; and, multilaterally, in the World Trade Organization.
Traditionally a closed economy thanks to its continental size and abundant natural resources, Brazil still exports less than 10 percent of its gross domestic product and, though it is among the world's top 10 economies, accounts for less than 1 percent of global trade.
But the recent devaluation of its currency, the real, has made the country much more competitive, especially in agribusiness. The country currently runs the world's biggest agricultural trade surplus, totaling $20 billion a year.
"Brazil is being pushed toward becoming a world trade player," said Marcos Jank, a professor in Sao Paulo and a consultant at the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington. "By opening its economy, Brazil weakened its balance of payments and must now aim for a more or less constant trade surplus."
In the last five years, Brazil unilaterally lowered import tariffs to an average of 14 percent, from 55 percent, Mr. Jank said.
Echoing all four candidates in October's presidential elections, who say Brazil's Achilles' heel is its chronic trade deficit, Mr. Jank predicted that "any further opening will be negotiated, and I believe negotiated firmly."
"Tariffs will only fall from 14 percent to zero if Brazil gets something in return, and that is access to others' markets," he said.
The question is whether Brazil can negotiate such access.
"Brazil is at an unprecedented point in its history that will be crucial for the country's future," said Lytha Spindola, secretary of foreign trade at the Ministry for Development, Industry and Foreign Trade. "We are negotiating with almost the whole world."
Brazil recently signed a bilateral trade pact with Mexico, which it sees as a model for negotiating access to United States and Canadian markets, and it sealed an accord on textiles with the European Union.
But the major bargaining is still to come. In November, Brazil will join the United States as co-president of the coordinating committee in the negotiations to get a Free Trade Area of the Americas, stretching from Alaska to Argentina, in place by 2005. And parallel negotiations between the European Union and Mercosur should also start producing results. 
Meanwhile, to provide the "half a dozen" negotiators Mr. Giannetti referred to with backup and to create a pool of future front-line diplomats, Ms. Spindola has recruited 180 foreign-trade analysts in the last two years and an additional 95 are due to join the ministry soon.
The recruits, all recent graduates, start out by gathering statistics, studying investment regulations, intellectual property rights and antidumping legislation.
"It's a new discipline that never existed before," Ms. Spindola said. "They learn on the job by supporting negotiators in the field, and after two or three years they're ready to negotiate themselves."
As times are hard and Brazil does not have a lot of money to throw at the problem, the new posts have been culled from other governmental bodies like those dealing with coffee, sugar and alcohol that are now considered largely obsolete.
When their training is over, they are assigned to negotiating teams under Ms. Spindola's command or at the foreign or agriculture ministries.
"It's still very few people, compared to the rest of the world," said Ms. Spindola. 
Brazil's negotiating team might be small, but it has already shown itself capable of getting results, sometimes against the odds and particularly on the multilateral battleground of the W.T.O.
Last year, Brazil finally won a five-year dispute with Canada over export subsidies to their regional jet manufacturers, Embraer of Brazil and Bombardier of Canada.
This month, Brazil filed two complaints at the W.T.O. against United States subsidies to its cotton farmers and against European Union subsidies to its sugar industry, and has already won support from Argentina, Australia, Thailand and several African nations.
Even without subsidies, cotton is one of the fastest growing sectors of Brazilian agribusiness, and the country has been the world's largest sugar producer for years.
The Foreign Ministry has set up an office to deal solely with such complaints and trade disputes, while the Agriculture Ministry has created a Department for International Trade Negotiations.
"In agriculture, Brazil is already a world player," said Pedro Camargo Neto, the department's head. "Brazil must lead the way for South America in the F.T.A.A. negotiations, and our biggest challenge will be to get all types of agricultural export subsidies abolished at the W.T.O."
Although not numerous, Brazil's negotiators were not merely "quixotic dreamers," he said.
"We must not compare our team with how many people Brussels or Washington have," he said. "We must compare what we have now with what we had in the past, and, looking at it that way, it's obvious to me that we're headed in the right direction."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazil, with crops like coffee, above, and sugar, currently runs the world's biggest agricultural trade surplus, totaling $20 billion a year. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRENDS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); AGRICULTURE (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); DEVALUATION (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); TREATIES; AGRICULTURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (55%) EUROPEAN UNION; MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (64%)

PERSON: ;SMITH, TONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) BRAZIL; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



101 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
The DowTakes Another Beating, Falling 355 Points

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks plunged yesterday on a report that showed that manufacturing remained quite weak, fueling concerns about the already sluggish economic recovery.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 4.2 percent for its worst single day since the period immediately after Sept. 11. 
 The two other major indexes fell at least 3.9 percent, pulled lower by sharp drops in Citigroup, down 10.3 percent; General Motors, off 4.8 percent; Exxon Mobil, down 5.2 percent; General Electric, off 5.6 percent; Microsoft, down 4.2 percent; and Intel, off 4.9 percent. All 30 stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average were down, as were 482 of those in the S.& P. 500.
All three indexes are above their levels when the overall market hit a five-year low in July. But Nasdaq is within 58 points of its low, and the S.& P. 500 is below 900 for the first time in four weeks. 
The market's decline on the first trading day in September is not an auspicious beginning to the fall season. September has been the worst month for the Dow. The index has fallen sharply in September in the last three years, and September is the only month in which it has posted a negative return on average.
The Dow and the Nasdaq composite index finished August in the red for the fifth consecutive month of losses. It was the first decline of that length for the Dow since 1981 and the first for the Nasdaq since 1984.
"The market still has a lot of speculation built into it," said Richard Bernstein, the United States equity strategist at Merrill Lynch. He warned that he did not think the market had reached a bottom.
Investors who are playing the market's volatility, trying to profit on the rallies and the slumps, are the driving force in the market, he said. "The dominant theme in the market is momentum," he said, "momentum up and momentum down."
But as stocks fell yesterday, bonds rallied and interest rates fell sharply, which could be good news. Lower interest rates encourage borrowing and could allow many homeowners to refinance their mortgages, giving them extra cash to spend. In late afternoon trading, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note was at 3.96 percent. Except for a brief intraday trading dip below 4 percent in mid-August, the yield has not been this low on a security with a 10-year maturity since the early 1960's.
Since the stock market reached its five-year low, investors have digested conflicting news on the outlook for the economy and, in turn, corporate earnings. Some analysts have argued that the market is attractive because stocks are undervalued, while others still worry about how high prices are relative to earnings. 
"I think mixed signals are the inescapable reality in a modest recovery, but that can be especially disappointing to anyone who is hoping to return to the boom times of the 1990's," said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company in Rye Brook, N.Y.
Mr. Barbera said that he did not expect the economy to fall into a second, or double-dip, recession. Economists and analysts generally contend that the last recession ended late last year.
But there is more and more talk of what is called a growth recession. This is a period when the economy is growing, but the pace is so slow that unemployment can still rise and the economy has the feel of a recession. There was such a period after the end of the 1991-92 recession, when President Bush's father was president. Although the recession officially ended in March 1992, the Dow did not get into a steady upward trend until the next year.
In positive news, figures released last week showed that orders for durable goods shot higher in July while consumers increased their spending by 1 percent, also a big surge.
Consumer confidence, however, declined. The report yesterday from the Institute for Supply Management was another negative. The institute's factory index stayed at 50.5 in August, though Wall Street analysts had predicted the index would rise to 51.8 percent.
To David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, the report seemed even weaker than the overall numbers indicated. "Technically, with the composite index above 50, the manufacturing expansion continued in August," he said. "But with orders down and only 8 out of 20 industries reporting growth, down from 12 in July and 15 in June, the recovery that started in February is clearly faltering badly."
He also noted that manufacturers are "anxious about second-half sales" and worried about the decline in both business and consumer confidence.
At the close, the Dow was down 355.45 points, or 4.1 percent, at 8,308.05. The Nasdaq dropped 51.01 points, or 3.9 percent, to 1,263.84. The S.& P. 500 index fell 38.05 points, or 4.2 percent, to 878.02. It was the biggest drop since a 4.9 percent decline last Sept. 17 when the markets reopened after the attacks.
Citigroup fell in part because Michael L. Mayo, an analyst at Prudential Securities, downgraded the stock to sell from a rating of hold. He said that he expected earnings to be weaker than expected and that Citigroup still faced big potential losses from lawsuits in connection with its Enron and WorldCom business.
The recent performance of stocks that tend to rise and fall with the economy reflects indecision about the outlook. Investors expect these stocks, including companies like International Paper, Goodyear Tire and Rubber, Sears, Roebuck and Caterpillar, to rally when the economy begins to turn up. Morgan Stanley's so-called cyclical stock index tried to rally in July, but failed. It rallied in August and is now heading lower again. Yesterday, the index was down 3.7 percent.
In the bond market, the yield on the Treasury's two-year note, which is often sensitive to expectations of a Federal Reserve rate cut, fell to 1.98 percent, from 2.15 percent on Friday. This is still above its historic low of 1.89 percent in early August.
In what may have been another blow to investors, Federal Reserve officials have indicated that they do not think that another cut in their benchmark short-term interest rate is necessary to assure that the economic recovery continues.
Even after Fed policy makers left rates unchanged at their Aug. 13 meeting, some hope remained for a rate cut at the September meeting. Recent comments from Fed officials have damped those expectations. The weak manufacturing data released yesterday, however, revived somewhat the expectations of a September cut. Expectations of a rate cut could grow if the August employment data that is released on Friday shows the economy is weaker than expected.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price
3-Mo. Bills: 99.593
6-Mo. Bills: 99.201

High Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 1.610
6-Mo. Bills: 1.580

Investment Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 1.639
6-Mo. Bills: 1.615

Low Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 1.58%
6-Mo. Bills: 1.55%

Median Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 1.60%
6-Mo. Bills: 1.57%

Total applied for
3-Mo. Bills: $44,490,829
6-Mo. Bills: $38,365,347

Accepted
3-Mo. Bills: $20,793,029
6-Mo. Bills: $19,468,857

Noncompetitive
3-Mo. Bills: $1,426,573
6-Mo. Bills: $1,018,887

Both issues are dated Sept. 5, 2002. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 5, and the six-month bills mature on March 6, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The bad news from Wall Street was on display yesterday in Chicago. The Dow finished August with its fifth consecutive month of losses. (Associated Press)(pg. C13) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C13) Chart: "Bloodied"The Dow Jones industrial average has declined for five consecutive months, the longest losing streak since 1981. And it now looks likely to fall for three consecutive years, the longest stretch since the Depression. Graph tracks the monthly percentage change of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1980. Graph tracks the annual percentage change of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since the 1910's. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "3-Month Treasury Bills"High rate at weekly auction. Graph tracks rates since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C13) Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



102 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Tries to Block Sale of Hershey 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa., Sept. 3 

 BODY:
The state went to court today to try to block any move to sell Hershey Foods by the charitable trust that controls it, warning that such a deal could lead to huge layoffs in Hershey, Pa. 
 Lawyers for the $5.9 billion Hershey Trust Company, which benefits a school for disadvantaged children, argued that the state lacked the authority to stop a sale. 
 The trust controls 77 percent of the shareholder votes of Hershey Foods and 31 percent of its common stock. In July it announced that it had ordered company executives to seek bids for Hershey. Analysts say the price could be as high as $15 billion. 
Attorney General Mike Fisher sued to block any sale, contending that the loss of jobs and tax revenue could devastate the Hershey area, where about 6,200 people work for the company.
Judge Warren G. Morgan met briefly with lawyers after adjourning the hearing, but did not immediately rule on Mr. Fisher's request for a temporary injunction.
During the hearing, the former chief executive of Hershey, Richard A. Zimmerman, testified for the state, saying any buyer would cut spending to make up for the cost of the purchase. "There's no doubt in my mind there would be some massive changes," he said.
Jack Stover, a lawyer for the trust and for its sole beneficiary, the Milton Hershey School, argued that the attorney general had no authority to interfere.
Mr. Stover said the trust was pursuing a sale because it needed to diversify its holdings. Nearly 59 percent of the trust's holdings are in Hershey Foods stock.
James Bailey, an investment adviser to the trustees, testified that the trust's portfolio "is twice as risky as the typical portfolio of a college or university."
Mr. Fisher, who attended the hearing but did not argue the case, said he expected a ruling later this week on the temporary injunction.
Shares of Hershey fell 15 cents, to $75.60. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INJUNCTIONS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); TRENDS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) CANDY; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; CHOCOLATE; FINANCES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: HERSHEY CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: HERSHEY FOODS CORP; HERSHEY TRUST CO 

TICKER: HSY (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (90%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (90%) SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS; 

PERSON: FISHER, MIKE (ATTY GEN); MORGAN, WARREN G (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (58%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) PENNSYLVANIA; HERSHEY (PA)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



103 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Working-Class Students Go to Boarding School 

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

 BODY:
They are hard-working black and Hispanic parents who have high hopes for their daughters. They have tried, often in vain, to keep their daughters from the distractions of sitcoms, the telephone and the hustle and bustle of the streets. So when words came that their daughters had been chosen to enroll in a boarding school in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, at virtually no charge, these parents jumped at the chance.
 "Boarding school in the 'hood," said Lashawn Hamilton, a token-booth worker whose daughter received a scholarship to the school. "That's good. That's good. That's good." 
 This fall, Catherine McAuley High School, a 60-year-old Catholic girls' school in a working-class section of Brooklyn, will begin enrolling 20 boarding students, whose room and board and education will be financed by a nonprofit organization. The aim is to insulate the students from the attractions of society and improve their chances of entering four-year colleges.
Boarding schools are a rarity in New York City. While some of the prestigious private schools were boarding schools at the turn of the century, all but one have become day schools.
"There are so many affluent people living in New York City, and they are the ones sending their children to the city's private schools," said Victoria Goldman, co-author of "The Manhattan Family Guide to Private Schools and Selective Public Schools," a popular book among city parents. "Their homes are close by. Their kids don't need to board."
Still, some educators believe that a boarding school environment would help children from neighborhoods brimming with distractions and from homes lacking stability because of divorce or unemployment.
"As much as we can do for them during school," said Joseph Viteritti, a professor of education policy at New York University, "children from low-income families don't have the same support that middle-class children get at home. Their parents might need to work a second job."
"The network of support boarding schools provide will help these students to focus on their schoolwork," he added, "so they will not be hanging out on the street corners in the afternoons. It will provide them with a structure."
And structure defines the new boarding school program. 
The students will get up at 6:45 every day and go to bed at 11. In between, every minute will be accounted for; the girls will attend school, take dance and self-defense classes in their dormitory gym and prepare for meals. Two house parents will supervise the girls 24 hours a day, and the ratio of students to residential parents will be kept at 10 to 1, even as the program expands. 
No visitors will be allowed, and no trips outside the building permitted. The girls will return home every weekend.
Barbara Welles, whose previous jobs involved raising money to help disadvantaged children, founded the Anchor Program, which is financing the boarding program. Ms. Welles said the boarding high school she attended in Massachusetts had sheltered her from the discord at her Chicago home when she was a teenager. 
"I know what it's like to have a lot going on at your home," she said. "I saw first-hand what a difference boarding schools could make. It's hard to see it and not do something about it."
Friendly with Wall Street investment bankers because of her previous positions, Ms. Welles raised $1.2 million for the Anchor Program among prominent figures in the financial world. 
Last year, Ms. Welles approached guidance counselors in some of the city's lowest-performing school districts and asked them to recommend students for the boarding program. The students filled out an application and were interviewed, and successful applicants will be supported by the program until they graduate.
It will cost $12,000 to provide room and board for each student for nine months. Catherine McAuley High, picked by Ms. Welles from nine schools that had expressed interest in the boarding program, will not earn a profit from housing the teenagers, but it welcomes the tuition dollars brought in by the new students, paid for largely by Anchor. 
Ms. Welles plans to expand the boarding program at Catherine McAuley to 60 girls in a couple of years, and she intends to create similar programs at other private schools. Though Catherine McAuley is a parochial school, the Roman Catholic Church is not otherwise involved in the Anchor Program.
The dormitory at Catherine McAuley, a modest but cheery brick building in a neighborhood of neat row houses, does not resemble the buildings at Andover, the alma mater of the Bushes, or Choate, which John F. Kennedy attended. Still, the twin-sized bed covered with floral-print sheets and the spotless mirror and sink in each room impressed the girls, who attended an orientation session with their parents on a recent Sunday.
The students will move into the dormitory, a former convent, tomorrow. Classes begin on Monday. 
The parents seemed far more concerned about the imminent departure of their children than the students themselves. At the orientation, the parents bombarded the residential counselors with questions: "What will happen when my child gets sick?" and the like. 
While the parents were nearby, the girls seemed to echo their views, but as soon as the school principal led the parents to a separate meeting, Monique Robinson, a freshman, blurted out: "I am gonna be away from home! That's the best part!" 
All the girls laughed and started clapping. Jaquoya Williams, a junior from Harlem, said she would rather not return home on weekends. "I want to go to somewhere like China," she said.
The girls worried about the length of the skirts that are part of their school uniforms (too long) and the mandatory evening study sessions (also too long), and asked questions quite different from their parents'.
"Can I listen to the Walkman during the study hours?" Jaquoya asked a counselor. "I just cannot study in complete silence." (Answer: no.)
When the time came to pick a single or double room, Monique seemed less certain about her new independence. She decided to ask for a double.
"Because I know the first night," she said with an impish grin, "I am gonna be scared, and I want to be scared with somebody."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anissa Brathwaite, left, and her sister Kaye checking dormitory rooms at Catherine McAuley High School, in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, during a recent orientation day for a new boarding program. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDING SCHOOLS (93%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); FAMILY (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); WRITERS (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS 

ORGANIZATION: CATHERINE MCAULEY HIGH SCHOOL (NYC) 

PERSON: ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



104 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturers Reduce Output As Orders Fall 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Manufacturing stalled in August, a report released today by the Institute for Supply Management showed, as orders declined for the first time in nine months and production slowed.
 The drop in new orders "signals a warning," said Norbert Ore, head of the institute's survey of manufacturers and director of purchasing at the Georgia-Pacific Corporation. "We've lost a lot of momentum." 
 The factory index held at 50.5 last month, lower than expected and below the average of 53.8 for the first seven months of this year.
"What little manufacturing we have seems to come from consumer demand," said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research in New York. "Until businesses begin to invest, we can't expect to see robust manufacturing."
The institute's new-orders index fell to 49.7, the first contraction since November 2001, from 50.4 in July. The orders index had risen as high as 65.3 in March, as companies responded to signs that the economy was rebounding from recession. The production index slipped to 55.6 in August from 55.7.
August was the seventh month that the factory index has held above 50, the dividing line between expansion and contraction among manufacturers. The institute says that an index reading of 42.7 is consistent with the break between expansion and contraction over all in the gross domestic product.
That means that the August reading "is consistent with G.D.P. growth of 2.5 to 3 percent," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.
Before the report, the median of 48 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 51.8.
The institute, based in Tempe, Ariz., surveys more than 400 companies in 20 industries.
Its index of inventories rose to 45.2 from 41.8, indicating that stockpiles of unsold goods were being run down at a slower pace. The employment index rose to 45.8 from 45, suggesting that manufacturers were still restrained in hiring.
A gauge of prices paid by manufacturers for materials and supplies fell to 61.5 last month from 68.3.
A separate survey yesterday showed that layoff announcements rose 46 percent in August from July. Businesses outlined plans to eliminate 118,067 jobs, compared with 80,966 in July and 140,019 in August 2001, according to an outplacement firm, Challenger, Gray & Christmas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (72%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT; CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (72%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (72%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (72%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



105 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Bertelsmann to Drop Mostof a Book Unit

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Bertelsmann confirmed plans today to abandon the bulk of its online bookselling service, BOL.
 The company said it was exploring a "variety of possible withdrawal scenarios" from BOL's businesses in Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Sweden. 
 Executives said those options ranged from a sale to a management-led buyout to shutting them down.
Bertelsmann said it would retain BOL's joint venture in Italy and its operations in China.
It also said it had no immediate plans to dispose of its 36.2 percent stake in Barnesandnoble.com, the American online bookseller, or of BeMusic, the direct marketing arm of the Bertelsmann Music Group.
Bertelsmann also announced today that its first-half profit was lifted by the sale of the company's largest investment in the Web, its stake in America Online.
The company said its net income more than doubled in the first six months, to 1.63 billion euros ($1.6 billion), largely because of the proceeds of the sale of its remaining shares in AOL. 
But Bertelsmann is still struggling through the advertising recession. It said its sales fell to 8.83 billion euros ($8.65 billion), from 9.29 billion euros ($9.1 billion), because of lower ad revenue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); LITERATURE (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); DIRECT MARKETING (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BOOK TRADE; COMPANY REPORTS; SALES 

COMPANY: SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (91%); BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (57%); AOL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BERTELSMANN AG; BOL.COM AG 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (91%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (91%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%) SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (57%) CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); NETHERLANDS (72%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



106 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
A Suburb Finds That Outlying Development Is Hurting Its Downtown

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, Wash. 

 BODY:
This is the story of identical twin buildings born 14 years apart.
 Here in Vancouver, a community just across the Columbia River from Portland, Ore., job growth is stagnant and real estate development can be a zero-sum game played by two competing economic forces. 
 "For years, Vancouver has been viewed as a bedroom community of Portland, and they're trying to make their own identity," said Terry S. Shanley, managing director of the Portland office of Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate services firm. "But they're caught in the same national economy that everybody is." 
The city is spending tens of millions of dollars to draw development downtown, but Westfield Shoppingtown, also known as the Vancouver Mall, situated five miles northeast, is pulling development away. For the moment, the mall is winning, and the evidence is the impending delivery of Parkway Plaza 4, the long-gestating twin of Parkway Plaza 3.
The two Parkway buildings were conceived in 1988, when a developer named Gregory L. Specht secured entitlements and design approvals from Clark County to raise two more 50,000-square-foot buildings in an office complex near the mall, about five miles from downtown.
Mr. Specht built Parkway Plaza 3, a curved red brick structure with stripes of tinted glass, in 1989. Every so often since then, he has looked over from Parkway Plaza 3, where tenants pay an average of $20 a square foot annually, at the empty corner lot next door that was intended for Parkway Plaza 4 but remains overgrown with weeds.
By Mr. Specht's reckoning it would cost $175 a square foot, or around $8.8 million, to build Parkway Plaza 4, and tenants would have to be willing to pay $24 a square foot to generate a decent return for the developer and his financiers.
"I'm a bit surprised that anyone would want to take Parkway Plaza 4, because you'd have to get $24, and we're only getting $20 next door," Mr. Specht said.
But someone does want to take it.
Dennis Pavlina works right around the corner, where his wife runs the Management Group, a company that operates residential properties. His own company is called the Gold Medal Group, and it has some experience building multifamily housing units.
Mr. Pavlina started in the business as a construction laborer. "I didn't want to have to work with my hands and my back every day of my life," he said, so he began buying distressed properties where there might be demand for apartment buildings. He and his wife "decided that I would put them up and she would manage them." 
He has never developed an office building like this before, but that empty field around the corner was almost teasing him. It was only after he put in an offer to buy the land earlier this year that Mr. Pavlina discovered that much of the early work had been done for him.
The county had approved a master site plan for the area, including many of the specifications for Parkway Plaza 4, some 14 years ago, before Vancouver annexed the area to capture the tax revenues from the shopping mall. 
So after what Mr. Pavlina describes as -- literally -- five minutes of negotiating with a landowner named Graham Bryce, Mr. Pavlina bought the 2.2 acres next to Parkway Plaza 3 for $925,000 in April, planning to follow all the original specifications for Parkway Plaza 4 laid out 14 years ago.
"We had to," Mr. Pavlina said. "That's where the value is."
To complement the entitlements and design approvals, Mr. Pavlina has obtained a grading permit, allowing him to start preparing the land for construction, and he has applied for building permits. Because the city left the approvals in place with a grandfather clause when it annexed the property from the county, Mr. Pavlina thinks that he can complete the project for only $7 million. And that he can get $24 a square foot from tenants by marketing this building as the newest thing in the little Vancouver Mall submarket (or sub-submarket, if you ask some brokers who consider Vancouver itself a suburb of Portland).
While modest, Mr. Pavlina's debut is the only office development under way in Vancouver. As economic incentives, a popular shopping mall and an old building permit long relegated to oblivion have trumped more than $18 million in city spending to attract development downtown.
Downtown, the city has built a four-level $12 million subterranean parking garage with 850 spaces. It has also spent more than $2 million to rejuvenate Esther Short Park and more than $4 million to provide parking for the West Coast Bank Building, an office building completed last year that tests the city's vertical horizon at five stories.
The underground parking garage was intended to serve a $100 million multiuse project by VanDevCo, a limited liability corporation formed by a developer called the Belbadi Group of the United Arab Emirates. So far, the group has built the first two of four buildings, containing market rate rental apartments, but no work is being done on the second two, planned to hold condominiums and retail stores as well as 160,000 square feet of office space.. The parking garage is complete and open for business.
"The city in the meantime has to own and operate it, so it's not going to be profitable until the office space is up and occupied," said H. Roger Qualman, executive vice president of Norris, Beggs & Simpson, a brokerage firm here that is affiliated with the international commercial real estate services firm NAI.
The chamber of commerce and the city are trying to create a business improvement district to attract retailers to the traditional center of Vancouver, in the bend of the Columbia River where Lewis and Clark landed and the Hudson's Bay Company operated a trading post until the United States pushed the British farther north. Mr. Qualman said that the area near the shopping mall, with relatively inexpensive land values and abundant surface parking, presented a significant challenge to that effort.
On the downtown streets, the colorful banners promoting Vancouver do little to brighten the dilapidated record store and the dark tavern with a window for walk-up service.
Attracting development is "hard to do in an older downtown that's been allowed to deteriorate," Mr. Qualman said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Sept. 4 about commercial real estate in Vancouver, Wash., referred incorrectly to two residential buildings and an underground parking garage that are part of a downtown project. While the buildings are substantially completed, they are not yet occupied. The garage is scheduled to open in March; it is not already in use.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Parkway Plaza 3 in Vancouver, Wash., is next to a lot that is scheduled to be filled by its twin, Parkway Plaza 4. Both were conceived in 1988. (Shane Young for The New York Times) Map of Oregon highlighting Portland. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); WESTFIELD GROUP (56%)

TICKER: WDC (ASX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (56%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (56%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (56%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL; SPECHT, GREGORY L; BRYCE, GRAHAM; PAVLINA, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%) OREGON, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (91%) VANCOUVER (WASH); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



107 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: REGIONAL MARKET: The Bronx; 
From Graffiti to High Hopes for a Desolate Area

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Paul Travis recalls that the thought first struck him as he was driving along the Major Deegan Expressway and glanced at a graffiti-scarred warehouse: despite the look of the building and the ones next to it, the site -- in a Bronx neighborhood that is technically part of Manhattan -- could be a prime retail location.
 In the two and a half years since then, Mr. Travis, a principal of Kingsbridge Associates, a Manhattan development company, bought not only the warehouse, which was formerly used by Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center to store medical records, but also five smaller adjacent commercial structures. 
 The plan is to replace all six buildings with a 230,000-square-foot retail center, including a Target department store, on 9.45 sloping acres alongside the Harlem River and adjacent to the Major Deegan Expressway and West 225th Street, which becomes West Kingsbridge Road in the Bronx. 
"If you look at the boroughs, the West Bronx and Upper Manhattan is the single most underserved area for retailers and commercial uses," Mr. Travis said. "It's a totally unmet market."
The site, he added, is near mass transit stations as well as major roadways, and 350,000 people with median household incomes of $53,000 live within a mile and a half of it.
Construction of the $80 million development in the Marble Hill neighborhood is expected to begin in November and finish by spring 2004. It will include three one- and two-story buildings and house up to 16 stores, all with separate entrances facing West 225th Street, as well as a small amount of office space. 
The Target store, with 120,000 square feet, will anchor the complex. The other tenants, including one restaurant, will occupy spaces ranging from 2,500 to 35,000 square feet. There will be parking for 809 cars.
The Target store will be the first outlet in the Bronx for the Minneapolis-based chain, which has two stores in Queens and will open one in Brooklyn in October. Douglas Kline, a spokesman for Target, would not comment on the planned Bronx store, saying only that his company's policy was not to discuss a store until "often after construction has begun."
The Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr., confirmed, however, that Target was the anchor. He said the overall project, which was reviewed by Community Board 7 in the Bronx, had been "received relatively well" by residents. 
"There will be some impact," Mr. Carrion added, referring to traffic. "But in the end the pluses outweigh the minuses." He said the project would also generate 600 retail jobs.
Walther G. Delgado, executive director of the nonprofit Audubon Partnership for Economic Development of Manhattan, which serves Marble Hill, added that the project would "help spark a renewal of the desolate area." 
Faith Hope Consolo, vice chairman of Garrick-Aug, the Manhattan retail brokerage firm, said that having as strong a tenant as Target would be important to the development's success.
The neighborhood's commercial district is centered on Broadway, which has such chains as Stop & Shop and Loehmann's, the clothing retailer. Both are on the northern end of the Broadway shopping area. 
Mr. Travis said, and Mr. Delgado agreed, that the proposed center, designed by Greenberg Farrow Architecture of Manhattan, would anchor Broadway's southern end. The added hope, both men said, is that it will encourage people to remain in the area to shop rather than go to Westchester County or New Jersey. 
Financing is coming from the developer's own equity, a loan from North Fork Bank and the tenants. 
Though Mr. Travis would not disclose rents, he said they would be competitive. Ms. Consolo said annual rents for stores in the area now average $20 to $30 a square foot and could go to $40 to $50 a square foot when the project is completed.
Building on the site involves several challenges that added four months to the construction schedule and 10 percent to the cost, said Jeffrey M. Brown. He is president of the Manhattan company bearing his name that will construct the project.
For example, because the site is along the river and because century-old sewers run beneath it, some 1,300 piles must be driven to support the structure.
Other challenges included cleaning the site of contaminants and the existing buildings of asbestos, a process that has been completed.
Technically, part of the new shopping center will be in Manhattan. The Marble Hill neighborhood is geographically in the Bronx, but through a twist of history it is politically still part of Manhattan. The twist was the filling in of the former Spuyten Duyvil Creek after the digging of the Harlem River Ship Canal in 1895, a process that detached Marble Hill from the rest of Manhattan and connected it to the mainland.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Data Update"Value of construction contracts for commercial and industrial buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through July. Graph tracks the value of regional contracts, measured in billions, from 2000 through 2002. NATIONAL: IN BILLIONSJULY '01: $72.4MAY '02: 61.5JUNE '02: 64.6JULY '02: 57.4 (Source: F. W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction) Map of the Bronx highlighting area for planned shopping mall: An $80 million development, anchored by a Target store, is planned in a corner of the Bronx.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MEDICAL RECORDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: TARGET STORES; KINGSBRIDGE ASSOCIATES 

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (57%) GARBARINE, RACHELLE; TRAVIS, PAUL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) MARBLE HILL (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



108 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Zambian Leader Defends Ban On Genetically Altered Foods 

BYLINE:  By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
The president of Zambia said today that his country, which is inching toward famine, would continue to refuse relief food that may be genetically modified, calling such food "poison" and saying it is "intrinsically dangerous."
 Speaking to journalists at the United Nations World Summit on Sustainable Development here in South Africa's biggest city, President Levy Mwanawasa said the desperate plight of his nation would not drive him to disregard his better judgment and accept genetically modified food. 
 "I'm not prepared to accept that we should use our people as guinea pigs," Mr. Mwanawasa said. 
Zambia and five other countries in southern Africa are critically short of corn, the staple in the region, and the World Food Program is carrying out a relief operation for more than 13 million people.
The food agency is already feeding just over a million Zambians, and agency officials predict that the number will approach 2.5 million by the end of the year.
Much of the aid being earmarked for the region is from the United States, where crops genetically engineered for better production are widely grown and the foods produced from them are widely consumed.
The United States says that it is donating the same food Americans eat and that in any case, it has nothing else to offer. 
Last week, the head of the Agency for International Development visited Zambia to urge the government to distribute the American food already in the country and accept the additional supplies headed there. This week, the world food agency's director, James T. Morris, is flying into the region, seeking to allay the hungry countries' concerns.
Genetically modified foods, which entered American commercial markets in the mid-1990's, have been the subject of intense international debate among environmental activists and consumer advocates, particularly in European Union countries.
Critics say such foods have not been sufficiently tested. Regulators in the United States, along with many scientists, counter that extensive studies already carried out have not found any reason to believe that the products are not safe to eat.
But along with fearing possible health effects, critics have said that planting genetically modified seeds could threaten the diversity of a country's plant and animal life. In Zambia's case, that could complicate and perhaps even jeopardize trade with the European Union. 
Such food is grown and eaten in parts of the union, but the union has generally been more circumspect. It mandates, for instance, that genetically modified foods be labeled. 
With its limited capacity for scientific food analysis, Zambia, now nominally free of genetically modified food, would not be able to keep modified crops separate if it did introduce them.
Lesotho, Malawi and Swaziland have accepted the modified food. Mozambique and Zimbabwe have insisted that corn be milled before being distributed, to eliminate any risk that genetically engineered seeds could cross-pollinate with naturally occurring seeds.
But President Mwanawasa and his agriculture minister say that even if the corn were milled, too many questions remain unanswered, namely whether eating such food poses health risks. "We may be poor and experiencing severe food shortages," Mr. Mwanawasa said, "but we aren't ready to expose our people to ill-defined risks."
At the invitation of the United States, a team of Zambian scientists will be visiting to meet with American experts on genetically modified organisms, said Mr. Mwanawasa, who added that he remained "open to conclusive scientific evidence." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (92%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); MAMMALS (75%); RODENTS (75%); AGRICULTURE (74%); NUTRITION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CONSUMER LAW (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%) FOOD; GRAIN; FAMINE; WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; DIET AND NUTRITION; AGRICULTURE; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (83%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%) UNITED NATIONS; WORLD FOOD PROGRAM (UN) 

PERSON: JAMES T MORRIS (58%) MWANAWASA, LEVY (PRES); CAUVIN, HENRI E 

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZAMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); SWAZILAND (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); LESOTHO (79%); MALAWI (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%) ZAMBIA; AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



109 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Candidates' Ads Responding to Public Insecurity 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Aug. 27 

 BODY:
With the approach of the first major elections since last year's terrorist attacks, candidates are responding to a sense of public insecurity with commercials that try to inspire confidence in their character and their ability to handle a crisis.
 Republicans and Democrats running for Congress, for governor and for local offices are trying to soothe voters with what are essentially comfort-food advertisements in which they offer reassurances for anxious people in a troubled economy and a turbulent world. 
 Almost none of the commercials raise the terrorist attacks overtly; consultants deem that too frightening and too inflammatory. Few even mention Sept. 11. Instead, in somber tones, often with a flag in the background, the candidates are taking perennial issues -- the economy, health care, Social Security -- and subtly reframing them. With words like "protect" and "preserve," they emphasize their character traits and values -- experience and level-headedness, strength and caring -- as symbols for their dependability in uncertain times. 
If candidates cannot quite guarantee "homeland" security, they are offering what Rachel Gorlin, a Democratic consultant, calls "close to home" security.
"In this uneasy environment," Ms. Gorlin said, "candidates have come to talk about security as Social Security, pension security, the security of knowing that if you're laid off in Iowa, at least your children will have health coverage, the security that comes with prescription drug coverage, the security of knowing that white-collar criminals who threaten their employees' jobs and retirements will be severely punished."
Here in Iowa, a radio advertisement promises that Representative Jim Leach, a Republican who says he is preoccupied with the powder keg in the Middle East, will not "play politics with America's future."
In Mississippi, a commercial for Representative Ronnie Shows, a Democrat, offers stability on a bedrock issue. "He believes your Social Security should be a sure thing and not stock-market roulette," his advertisement says.
In Delaware, in one of the few overt references to Sept. 11, Ray Clatworthy, a Republican candidate for Senate, tells radio listeners he is a graduate of the Naval Academy, flew fighter jets in the Marines and wants "to make sure that we are a vigilant nation, that we're a strong nation and that we win this war on terrorism."
Darryl Roberts, a Democrat in Oklahoma who spent 30 years in the Marine Corps, rolls all these ideas into one, saying in one commercial that voters "deserve a congressman with the military experience to protect Tinker and Fort Sill and the determination to improve public schools and health care."
The perceived gold standard of security, of course, is in New York, where former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who gained international stature with his command of his city under siege, is appearing in commercials for Gov. George E. Pataki.
The former mayor praises Mr. Pataki for "giving us a sense of purpose that we didn't have before." No need to say before what.
Representative Thomas M. Davis III, the Virginia Republican who heads his party's House campaign committee, said he would deploy Mr. Giuliani, in dozens of districts, saying his endorsement was "the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval."
"Many races in the past have been based on hope versus fear," said Stuart Stevens, Republican consultant and media adviser to George W. Bush in 2000. "This year, it's anxiety versus reassurance."
Donny Deutsch, chief executive of the Deutsch advertising agency in New York, said consumers, whether searching for a product or a politician, want the same thing -- "comfort and security."
"Nobody wants snide or in your face," Mr. Deutsch said. "People want safe, sure, back to basics." He cited with approval a new black-and-white Sears advertisement that evokes scenes from the 1950's and conveys endurance and reliability.
While candidates are shying from a direct link with Sept. 11, interest groups are exploiting it. The Sierra Club, for one, is running commercials about the danger of relying on foreign oil and urging the auto industry to promote better fuel efficiency.
"We ask our young men and women to sacrifice their safety and perhaps their lives to fight the war against terrorism," former Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska and a decorated Vietnam veteran, says in a Sierra Club advertisement. "Surely we can do something here at home to help." 
An anti-immigration group called Californians for Population Stabilization is running a commercial that says: "It's time for Congress to halt mass immigration until the I.N.S. can tell a terrorist from a tourist. If we don't, who knows where terrorists will strike next." An image of the Diablo Canyon Power Plant comes on the screen.
Such images are perceived as too hot for individual candidates. 
Ms. Gorlin said that in the past candidates would advertise their position on issues as a way to convey their values. Now, she said, candidates are promoting their values -- their solidity, their ability to understand the problems of regular people, their distaste for corporate crooks -- as a proxy for where they stand on issues. As a result, experience is promoted more now than it was a few short years ago when the rallying cry was for term limits.
The emergence of this kind of advertising results partly from the fact that candidates generally want to sound positive as they begin their campaigns. But also, with the Sept. 11 anniversary looming, they want to sound in sync with the national mood.
Experts cautioned that while the underlying theme of security might be useful in establishing a candidate's values, it may give way closer to Election Day, Nov. 5, to more traditional attacks.
"There is still a tremendous skepticism about either party's ability to offer much in the way of real solace and comfort," said Carter Eskew, a Democratic consultant who worked for Al Gore in 2000. "It will remain to be seen whether 'security' is a redefinition of the landscape or whether, when it runs its course, candidates will revert to the traditional 'I'm better than the other guy.' "
But for now, many candidates are speaking to voters' vulnerability on issues across the board and putting aside negativity and harsh attacks.
"The American people are not in the mood to be entertained," said David Axelrod, a Democratic consultant based in Chicago. "They're very sober and serious and concerned about real problems and they want people to address those problems without varnish."
Here in Iowa, the candidates are doing just that. Mr. Leach, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, is more internationalist in his approach. He is disturbed over the Bush administration's inclination to invade Iraq, and he says his constituents are, too.
"There is deep concern at the idea of our intervening without being attacked and concern that the repercussions in the Muslim world could be absolutely gigantic and that we would be precipitating the clash of civilizations," he said.
His Democratic opponent, Dr. Julie Thomas, a pediatrician, is offering a more personal kind of security. Her commercials show her treating patients, and she uses comforting language, offering protection not just for voters' health but "protection against corporate fraud like Enron."
Being a doctor, she said, gives her a natural advantage when talking about security. "People do trust their physicians for good advice and for solving problems," Dr. Thomas said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Julie Thomas, a pediatrician, appears in a 30-second television spot called "Thanks." She tries to offer voters a personal kind of security. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); CHILDREN (73%); NAVIES (65%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (65%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (64%); AIRLINES (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) ELECTIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES; CONSULTANTS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) SEELYE, KATHARINE Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



110 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Free-Market Upheaval Grinds Mexico's Middle Class 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
By Mexican standards, Alvaro Alvarez and Alma Amarillas are a solid middle-class couple. But in the 20 years they have worked to build a stable life for themselves and their children, the economic ground beneath them has never stopped shaking. 
 She works double shifts as a public school teacher and administrator. He has quit teaching to work as a personnel manager for the government. Together they make about $24,000 a year. But they have little more to show for their life's labor than the roof over their heads. 
 They have not been able to save a penny. They spend more than half their monthly income on their mortgage. Their safety net is a credit card with a $300 limit. And they have diminishing hope that their two daughters will live better than they do. 
"We live day to day," Ms. Amarillas said. "We never know when there will be a new crisis. I panic when the girls get a fever or the car sounds funny. 
"I don't think much anymore about how our situation will improve," she added. "I worry more about how it could get worse." 
It has been two decades since Mexico committed itself to free-market reforms aimed at propelling this country into the developed world. The North American Free Trade Agreement, considered the centerpiece of the new Mexican philosophy, has generated a quarter trillion dollars in cross-border trade with the United States. The treaty helped turn a closed, inefficient economy dominated by state-owned companies into one that was flooded by foreign investment and driven by foreign competition. 
But government statistics show that economic liberalization has done little to close the huge divide between the privileged few and the poor, and left the middle class worse off than before. Battered by a series of severe recessions, teachers and engineers, nurses and small-business men, all find themselves swinging above and below the poverty line with the rise and fall of the peso, interest rates and the unemployment rate. 
According to a recent government report, in the year 2000 half the Mexican population lived on about $4 a day, with scarcity shifting along with the population from rural regions to cities. Some 10 percent of Mexicans at the top of the income pyramid controlled close to 40 percent of the nation's wealth. 
Meanwhile, the 35 percent of Mexico's population that lives in the middle -- with average earnings of about $1,000 a month -- spirals slowly downward.
The economist Rogelio Ramirez de la O said that in the 1970's, when Mexico's population was 50 million people and the country had begun to enjoy the benefits of an oil boom, some 60 percent of Mexicans were middle and working class. Their numbers and buying power have declined "dramatically" since then, Mr. Ramirez said.
"The promises of economic modernization have not been fulfilled," he added, and Mexico's middle class "now has less buying power than a generation ago." 
The development of a middle class was a shining achievement of the Mexican revolution, said the historian Lorenzo Meyer. Incubated in a closed economy that was driven by state-owned monopolies, the middle class grew steadily from the 1920's to the 1970's. Faced with declining economic efficiency and a mounting public debt, successive presidents opened Mexico's protected economy, igniting an industrial revolution that turned the country into one of the world's leading exporters.
In an effort to reduce its external debt, the government simultaneously slashed spending for higher education, transportation and health care -- all traditional pillars of middle-class life. 
"The idea of Mexico as a middle-class country is a delusion," Mr. Meyer said. "This is a country of extremes."
It is not a unique predicament in Latin America, a region that has long suffered some of the greatest inequalities of wealth in the world. However, it seems a sorry outcome for a nation that adopted the economic tenets of globalization as gospel. It is particularly bitter for the middle class, the very people who powered the rise of President Vicente Fox, whose election two years ago brought down the dictatorial 71-year regime of the Institutional Revolutionary Party.
In addition to advocating the expansion of Nafta, Mr. Fox, a former Coca-Cola executive, also promoted a more even distribution of wealth. He promised to create more than a million new jobs a year, increase government spending on education and health care and make low-interest loans available to small and medium-sized businesses. 
In his state of the union address on Sunday, Mr. Fox highlighted how his sound fiscal policies had helped keep the country afloat, while Mexico's neighbors to the south had become mired in crises that have crushed their middle classes. The Mexican peso is strong, inflation is projected to decline to 4 percent annually and levels of foreign investment have remained stable. A government welfare program started by Mr. Fox's predecessor, Ernesto Zedillo, has been renamed and expanded to include more than two million new families. 
"We have achieved change without violence, without crisis, with great economic stability," Mr. Fox said in a conversation with foreign correspondents last week. "That is very important." 
Still, the benefits of the nation's current economic stability have yet to ripple through a Mexican society that increasingly measures itself by North American standards. More than a million jobs have been lost since Mr. Fox was inaugurated, many of them in manufacturing. Congress has blocked or watered down Mr. Fox's tax and energy plans, aimed at increasing government funds for social programs and at increasing the supply of electricity to keep up with soaring demand.
Several new plans for stimulating economic growth in 250 of the poorest regions of Mexico, including infrastructure projects and micro-loans that help peasants start homespun businesses, have just come off the government's drawing board. A survey in Mexico City found that only 30 percent of small and medium-sized businesses used banks for financing because of high interest rates and stringent terms. 
The financial roller-coaster ride of Salvador Jimenez, a college-educated accountant, is typical. Mr. Jimenez decided to go into business for himself nine years ago, and then nearly lost his shoe store at the end of 1994 when the peso was devalued by 50 percent and the principal of his business loan doubled.
With contributions from his family, Mr. Jimenez, 39, has managed to pay off his debt. His store is back in the black, but earns profits of only about $800 a month. To make ends meet, the single father of 13-year-old twin boys does accounting work for all his neighbors. And his former wife, a lawyer in Chicago, regularly sends money. 
"The middle class is falling, falling, falling," he said. "We need help. We need credit." 
A government demographer, Rodolfo Tuiran, referred to the 1980's and 1990's as "lost decades," and said the Mexican middle class responded to the cycles of crisis by sending women and children to work and by incorporating members of their extended families into their households. 
An increasing number of middle-class men and women have joined the exodus of Mexican immigrants to the United States, Mr. Tuiran said, with one out of 17 professionals abandoning the country in the last two decades. 
"That is a significant loss of human capital," he said. "It is an expression of the growing gap between the expectations people have for access to higher education and careers, and the realities of our country, which is not opening sufficient opportunities."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alma Amarillas, a 43-year-old Mexican teacher and administrator, helping her daughter Daphne with her homework. "We live day to day," Ms. Amarillas said. "We never know when there will be a new crisis." (Lynsey Addario for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); POLITICS (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); STATISTICS (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; PRIVATIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (73%) MEYER, LORENZO; AMARILLAS, ALMA; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



111 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1909 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: IN HIS OWN WORDS/Donald H. Rumsfeld; 
'The American People Have Got the Staying Power for This'

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from an interview with Donald H. Rumsfeld, the Secretary of Defense, reflecting on events since the Sept. 11 attacks. Except for some remarks that were not intended for quotation, the full interview is online at nytimes.com.

Q -- Mr. Secretary, since you came into this office the phrase asymmetrical threat has now entered the popular vernacular in a way that it wouldn't have otherwise.

A -- I don't like it. I wish I knew an alternative. I wish I knew a better way of saying "weapons of mass destruction." And if I had some time, I'd sit down and think about it. . . .

Q -- Speaking about Al Qaeda and terror networks. In some ways they're a virtual enemy, in that they have leaders and they have budgets and they have command-and-control and they can wreak terrible damage and they're like a country with an army -- but they don't have a country, they don't have headquarters -- they are a virtual enemy.
 What you do in this building, what the military does, is completely real and solid. What are some of the new things you think this building and this military have to learn to do to fight an enemy that's a virtual enemy? 

A -- The first thing it has to do, as always, is to acknowledge the fact. Once having done that, recognize that in addition to the other things that it always has done, or needs to do, for deterrence and defense, those things haven't disappeared; we also have to begin to develop the ability to live in the world that you've described.
You do that by recognizing that the world's changed, understanding the ways it's changed and the way those changes disadvantage you as a country, and then providing leadership in this institution so that down through the building and the establishment, there is an understanding that we need to organize, train and equip to live in that world. 
Business as usual won't do it. 
There are a lot of implications of that change, and one of them is the need for being swift on your feet, and big institutions aren't swift on their feet. They're ponderous and clumsy and slow, powerful over time, but not deft.
One thing about the world you described is that it learns every day. It goes to school on you. It watches how you're behaving and then alters and adjusts at relatively little cost, relatively little time, relatively little training to those incremental changes we make in how we do things. 
And our changes tend to be slower, more costly and visible. Their changes can be cheaper, quicker, and for a period -- a longer period than in our case -- but for a period, invisible. So there is that advantage as well as the obvious advantage that the attacker has against the defender. . . .

Q -- Another very important thing -- I know our time is running short -- that came up yesterday, your frustration with the focus on Iraq. Putting aside the newspaper's view of that, but you think it detracts from looking at the broader picture, the global war on terror, weapons of mass destruction.
It's an interesting role in which you cast yourself. As defense secretary, we've talked before how you try to describe the financial and economic impact of war and peace to the countries with whom you negotiate. You seem to also be -- I don't know what the word is -- the beacon for trying to keep America focused on this long picture, the bigger threat. Not Iraq, but everything else that's out there.
That must be a hard job because most of America was not affected by 9/11 except emotionally, psychologically. You were a teenager in World War II. You remember a time of shortages and curfews and all that. That doesn't exist in America now. So how can you keep this country better focused on this long war?

A -- Well, you're right, I do feel it's part of my responsibility to do that.
And as I've said so often, it's your in-box that tends to distract you. And to the extent you spent all day working on your in-box instead of fashioning an out-box that then others read and react off of, then you're reactive and your decisions are ad hoc and therefore random.
Unless you have a longer perspective in a leadership post and plant some standards way down the road, so that the daily in-box items can be tested against those things, you're going to be like the fellow in the sailboat where the rudder doesn't work. You're just going to be milling around.
Unless you have a direction and some speed and you're under way, you can't calibrate your direction. No one can get it right perfectly the first time. You need to set a direction and then you need to calibrate it. If you don't have any steerageway, you're not going forward, you can't calibrate it. 
And if you haven't developed a longer-term view, every one of your daily decisions -- you can do your very best to take them the best you can, but they'll be random because they've not been tested against something.
So my biggest task and problem is to push away the immediate and force myself to address the important, and to try to look down the road and see that we do have a direction, that we do have steerageway, that we can then adjust and calibrate as we learn every day, and goodness knows, I hope we learn every day.

Q -- One more question on the way ahead. Many of the issues that are confronting you now are the same issues from last summer -- which are budgets, force structure, procurement, weapon systems, that sort of thing.
Elsewhere in the administration, people have said the '04 budget is really the last Bush budget before the campaign season starts for him. How will that affect what you do as secretary of defense in this building, with one more clean shot at a defense budget? 

A -- It makes it very important, there's no question. The '04-'09 budget is -- we have been here long enough to have put our people in place, which was not true last year. We have been here long enough to have turned over enough rocks to get a sense of where the problems are. We've not been here long enough to have intervened in all these two- and three- and four-year cycles that exist around here.
But we have been able to identify a series of studies that needed to be done and some cross-cutting looks at things.
I think that we've got work going on that, in probably half to three-quarters of the instances, we probably will have the study done or far enough along that it should inform the process that takes place from August, September, October, November around here and benefit those decisions.
A couple of things. The other things will have to be, like a lot of things in life, 60, 70, 80 percent decisions, where you've got about 60, 70, 80 percent of the information you think you need, and it's going to take one or two or three years to find the last 20 percent, and therefore you bite the bullet and go. 
I think that we'll undoubtedly make investments, for example, that will improve our intelligence capability and improve our ability to interact with the rest of the intelligence community and the C.I.A., but I don't think it will -- we've not gotten a new person in place i.e., an under secretary of defense that will take a look at all the intelligence. . . . 
One thing we're talking about that could conceivably help -- and I think is interesting that it doesn't exist -- is joint ConOps, a concept of operation that's joint.
If you had that it would inform the process of establishing requirements. If you establish requirements out of the services and then the CINC's commanders opine on requirements, and they are coming from separate perspectives, it will undoubtedly produce a more difficult process and decisions that would be different than if you did it a different way. 
The different way would be, maybe, to decide that you're going to have a joint concept of operations for several models of how to do the kinds of things you might need to do, and get agreement on that, and have that determine requirements. And it's interesting that in the year 2002, that doesn't exist.
Whether we'll be able to do that, how fast we'll be able to do that, whether it will be sufficiently useful the first time that you try to do it, is a question that remains before us. 
But my hope is that between now and a year from now, that we will have done that, and that the budget that we're building a year from this fall will be informed by a process like that, where you would have had extensive involvement by CINC's as well as service chiefs, and force up on the table a set of issues that otherwise don't get forced up.
Just like . . . the Defense Planning Guidance forced up the issues of how you begin to balance risks: war risks, against personnel risks, against transformation risks, against modernization risks. 
People were able to go out and trade off among those things but not between those things -- they could trade off within a category. And in life, tradeoffs are okay, but they tend to be more power- or political-based -- I don't mean politics, I mean a judgment or a tradeoff that's based on something other than a substantive look at what is needed could conceivably end up where, well, the Army gets this, the Marines get that, the Navy gets this and the Air Force gets that. 
That's not the way one ought to be deciding how things ought to be taken care of out there, and what kinds of things we're going to need. But as you well know, that's tended to be the history of this building.
So we have got a lot going on and I think ---- You said I sounded frustrated on the Iraq question. I'm not frustrated. What I'm trying to do is to get people's eyes up on what I think to be the big issue that needs to be talked about, and is going to help inform a lot of issues, a lot of people's ways of thinking about things and looking at things.

Q -- But the default mode of any democracy is peace. Americans, as you know, bless them all, don't want to be at war, they want to relax. So it's a challenge.

A -- Sure it is. My impression is that the American people have got the staying power for this. You look at what we did during the cold war: Generation after generation, from 1950, took money they would prefer to spend on other things, invested into the defense establishment, put troops overseas.
A lot of people think they were left there after World War II. They weren't left there. They were brought home and sent back, and troops were put there because they needed a deterrent and they needed a defense capability and because leadership stuck at it, and from Truman on, provided the kind of leadership that was needed, and not just in our country but in European countries. . . . 
In country after country, leaders kind of rose to the top and persuaded and informed the American people so that they gained the support necessary to make investments, in a time of peace, to make investments that would enable us to defend if necessary -- but preferably deter -- against a very serious, persistent, expansionist, powerful threat that was not visible, that wasn't there every minute, that people wanted to debate against as to whether it even existed, and the American people had the staying power. And they will this time.
My hope is that they'll have it because of the fact that the need is there and that democratic people, free people, have a pretty good center of gravity. The other way they'll have it, is if we're punctuated periodically with additional terrorist attacks that remind us that we do have an obligation to ourselves and our system and our friends and allies around the world to behave responsibly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview; Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); AL-QAEDA (69%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



112 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Broad Accord Reached at Global Environment Meeting 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Wednesday, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
After a week of intensive negotiations, diplomats here at the World Summit on Sustainable Development arrived at a plan early this morning that is intended to reduce poverty and preserve the earth's natural resources.
 The breakthrough came after diplomats worked late into the night on Tuesday to resolve a dispute over language in the conference's plan on health care for women. 
 Also on Tuesday, Russia announced that it would ratify the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty intended to ease global warming -- a move virtually ensuring that the treaty would go into effect despite its rejection by the United States.
Canada wanted the words "in conformity with human rights and fundamental freedoms" linked to health care to avoid condoning practices like female genital mutilation. Representatives of developing countries initially opposed the language, but backed down this morning. 
"We're very pleased," Kelly Morgan, a spokeswoman for the Canadian delegation, said. "We are finished."
The plan is meant to set the global agenda for coming years. It calls on nations to reduce by half the number of poor people who lack sanitation by 2015; to commit to the sound management of chemicals with the goal of minimizing their adverse effects on health and nature by 2020; and to reduce significantly by 2010 the number of animals and plants having endangered status.
The plan calls for the reduction of agricultural subsidies in wealthy countries, which, poor nations say, protect farmers in the United States and Europe from competition. It also urges nations to promote renewable energy sources like solar and wind power as well as to expand access to energy services by the poor.
Officials from the United States and the United Nations praised the document, but it was sharply assailed by environmentalists and advocates for the poor, who complained that wealthy countries had weakened the language.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell flew in late on Tuesday and will make a speech here today.
The United States, along with Canada, Japan and oil-producing countries, blocked an effort by the European Union to set a target and a timetable for the conversion from oil and gas to renewable sources of energy. The Europeans had sought a commitment to ensuring that renewable energy sources would account for 15 percent of the world's total energy production by 2010. But American officials opposed the target, saying they preferred concrete action to goals that might ultimately prove meaningless.
In the end, the nations agreed to promote an increase in renewable energy, but rejected the specific target and time frame, officials said.
The United States praised the plan and the negotiations that preceded it. "It's a message of hope to impoverished areas of the world," said John F. Turner, assistant secretary of state for oceans and international environmental and scientific affairs. "I think it builds an excellent framework for going forward." 
But Brooks Yeager of the World Wildlife Fund said most environmentalists were disappointed. "We're particularly disappointed at the outcome of the energy discussions," he said.
The secretary general of the conference, Nitin Desai, emphasized that leaders had succeeded in finding common ground in difficult discussions. But he, too, acknowledged that the plan was weaker than many hoped. "In some areas," he said, "I wish we could have done more." 
Russia's decision was hailed as a step forward in the struggle to prevent the droughts, floods and agricultural disruptions many experts think is caused by climate change.
Prime Minister Mikhail M. Kasyanov said Russia planned to ratify the Kyoto treaty "in the very near future." Diplomats said they expected ratification by the end of the year.
The treaty would set the first binding restrictions on releases of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases by industrial nations.
Officials also said they hoped Russia's decision would put more pressure on President Bush, who angered many leaders last year when he rejected the accord. But Mr. Bush maintains that it could harm the American economy and that it is unfair because the required emissions cuts apply only to industrial powers, not to fast-growing developing countries like China and India.
Among treaty supporters, Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada pledged to push his Parliament to ratify the treaty by the end of the year.
Environmentalists said they thought Russia was waiting to ratify the treaty in an effort to win concessions in other areas, like increased financial aid or compensation for maintaining vast forests that emit carbon dioxide.
China announced today that it had ratified the treaty, but American officials said that did not change their position. As it now stands, the Kyoto accord does not require China to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A demonstrator from the advocacy group Greenpeace being taken away by police officers outside the conference center in Johannesburg where the world conference on sustainable development is being held. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); SOLAR ENERGY (86%); WIND ENERGY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WOMEN (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); OCEANOGRAPHY (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (64%); AGRICULTURE (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%) ENVIRONMENT; WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; KYOTO PROTOCOL; FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION; WOMEN; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) CANADA; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



113 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Cheap Power Gone, Montana Is to Vote on Buying Dams 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: ENNIS, Mont., Aug. 29 

 BODY:
Even with little population growth and a lack of high-wage jobs, Montana could always count on a few good things. There was cheap electricity, thanks to a power company with the personality of a rich, domineering uncle, and there were river trout that could make people forget their troubles in a hurry.
 The trout are still here. But the cheap power and the company that delivered it are gone. Now many people here say Montana has lost what little economic self-determination it had, and they blame one of the few new economic notions that did find a home here, briefly, in the 1990's: deregulation. 
 In a populist campaign reminiscent of old battles against Eastern railroads and California copper barons, Montanans are to vote this fall on a measure that could lead to a public takeover of 12 hydroelectric dams owned by out-of-state corporations. The proposal, Initiative 145, would set in motion a process by which the state might buy the dams, through either negotiation with the owners or condemnation. 
Opponents say the proposal would amount to brazen property confiscation that would do little to ease high power rates. But it is those escalating utility bills, in a state that consistently ranks among the nation's poorest, that are driving the campaign to take over electric power.
The push to buy the dams of Montana is part of a broader reaction to the energy and telecom deals that were hatched on Wall Street and changed the face of utilities that in some states had been enduring institutions. When companies like Enron and WorldCom expanded by buying one utility after another, their customers were mere observers. Now, in the aftermath of those companies' collapse, and with electricity bills moving steadily higher, the public in far-flung American towns is clamoring for a say.
Sold as a way to bring choice and lower utility bills, power deregulation is now about as welcome as drought, at least in the West. The debacle of California's experiment, which may end up costing the state as much as $30 billion and has led to criminal inquiries into alleged price manipulation, looms large as Californians try to return to a regulated market.
But other states are backing away as well. On Aug. 27, the Arizona Corporation Commission, which regulates that state's utilities, voted unanimously to halt a six-year drive toward deregulated electricity. The commission, whose vote keeps some of the state's major power providers from divesting themselves of their generating plants, said deregulation could expose consumers to market manipulation and price gouging.
Portland, Ore., meanwhile, is moving ahead with a plan to acquire, perhaps through condemnation, Portland General Electric, a utility owned by the bankrupt Enron Corporation. The utility, with 742,000 customers, infuriated many of them with a 40 percent rate increase last fall. Portland city officials say that if the utility were publicly run, it could offer energy at much lower prices.
Deregulation can still work, supporters say, if it is set up properly. But that is a hard sell in Montana, where people like to feel a personal connection to the institutions that govern their lives.
From his house above the backed-up Madison River near this little tourist town in far southern Montana, James Bond can see water become electricity as it courses through a small dam. Mr. Bond, a veterinarian, wonders if that power is going out of state while his utility bills go up.
"When I can see the dam from my house and I can't get the power from that dam," he said, "it doesn't make a whole lot of sense."
The dam here used to be owned by the Montana Power Company, once the state's dominant corporation. In earlier incarnations, Montana Power was part of a conglomerate that ran mines, timber operations and newspapers, and had an iron grip on political power under the big sky.
That sway over the Statehouse was still evident when, at the end of the 1997 legislative session, Montana Power, looking to get out of the stodgy, regulated utility business, pushed through a deregulation bill, which made its assets more attractive to prospective buyers. The company said the public would benefit, with lower costs and more consumer choices. 
The Legislature, made up mostly of farmers, ranchers and small-business owners, approved the measure with little hesitation. "The dining, the free drinks, the contributions -- it all paid off when Montana Power called in its chips," said Hal Harper, a former speaker of the Montana House, who has been both a Republican and a Democrat but is now out of politics. "We're stuck with the bill."
Montana Power sold its generating plants to the PPL Corporation of Allentown, Pa., a company that sells power in more than 40 states and numerous countries. The once-thriving Montana Power Company got into the Internet service provider business, becoming Touch America, and has nearly collapsed with the implosion of the telecom industry, losing more than 90 percent of its market value.
The first shock of deregulation here was felt by business. In a fourth year of increases, power prices soared to unheard-of levels in 2001. Paper companies, mines and other industries that provide some of Montana's few good-paying jobs began to close or lay off workers because they could not afford to pay their electricity bills.
For residential consumers, whom the deregulation law shielded from the first four years of price jumps, bills started to go up this summer, and will rise again next summer.
Owners of the dams, backed by some union officials and the leaders of the Republican-controlled state government, are challenging the initiative in court while raising nearly $1 million to build a political campaign against it. That sum is huge in a state like Montana, where the cost of advertising is low, and where supporters of the initiative expect to have little money.
The raw emotion of the issue has already made its way into court filings. "The prospect of some Montana residents having to choose between heating and eating is not so unrealistic," Jim Reynolds, a lawyer for a group called Dam Cheap Power, wrote in support of allowing voters to have their say.
The dams' owners -- in addition to PPL, a Spokane company named Avista could lose a dam -- are leaving nothing to chance. In focus groups, they have found that people are very upset over deregulation but also do not like the idea of government's condemning private property, said Aidan Myhre, a spokeswoman for Taxpayers Against Initiative 145.
"Property rights works in our favor, but deregulation is just not popular," Ms. Myhre said. She said her side would argue that the state could not run power plants efficiently and that Montana could not sit on the sidelines of global business.
"We live in a global environment, and Montana is not this little cell that can determine its own destiny," she said. "Besides, there is no guarantee that if the state were to take over the dams, they could offer lower prices."
Though few polls yet give a good indication of where the electorate stands, Ms. Myhre said the dams' owners would have to "educate people."
A yes vote would not automatically lead to state purchase of the dams. It would set up a commission to determine whether it made sense for the state to buy the dams and run them. If so, the state would either negotiate to buy them or condemn them and pay market value for them. Revenue bonds of as much as $500 million would finance the acquisition. 
The initiative's supporters cite the Montana Constitution, which says all rivers in the state are to be used for the benefit of Montanans.
"A river running downhill -- there's no cheaper power in the world, because there are no fuel costs," said State Senator Ken Toole, a Democrat who is a leader of the buy-the-dams campaign. "We have this in our backyard. Yet we went from some of the cheapest power rates in the nation to some of the highest."

GRAPHIC: Photo: This dam at Thompson Falls, Mont., is among those the state may buy if voters approve a ballot initiative. (Tim Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (75%); REFERENDUMS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); TRENDS (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); CITIES (62%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ENERGY REGULATION (58%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; DAMS AND DIKES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ELECTION ISSUES; REFERENDUMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (82%); PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MONTANA POWER CO; PPL CORP 

TICKER: POR (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (82%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%) SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED; 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (84%) MONTANA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (84%) UNITED STATES (95%) MONTANA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



114 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: And Now There Are Two 

 BODY:
Andrew Cuomo's withdrawal from the Democratic primary for governor of New York was a moment of drama in a contest that had otherwise sorely lacked pizazz. Bill Clinton brought down the house by assuring everyone at Mr. Cuomo's press conference that he, Mr. Clinton, was the only person on the stage whose political career was over. (The line worked so well that he repeated it.) Representative Charles Rangel, who was furious when Mr. Cuomo tried to stand in the way of Carl McCall's becoming the state's first black Democratic governor, was all smiles. And Mr. Cuomo himself, who had appeared to be cruising toward a career-ending political defeat on primary day, salvaged his future options. 
 That leaves the voters with two major-party choices this fall, and plenty of time for a vigorous contest between Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, and Gov. George Pataki. Mr. McCall is going to have to campaign hard against Mr. Pataki, the current front-runner, and both men need to answer tough questions about the state's future. 
 At the top of that list is what to do about the Potemkin budget. Anybody with even a modest understanding of state finances realizes that the current financial plan is a house of cards, built on a huge and growing gap in revenues. Nobody in Albany, especially Comptroller McCall and Governor Pataki, should be allowed to get away with this charade. Both need to declare what they would do next year, when the state budget gap could stretch to $7 billion. Each candidate needs to go on record and answer how -- specifically -- he would pay this huge public bill. Whose favorite program will be cut -- specifically? Will he borrow even more and thus eat into the state's extremely shaky bond rating? Will those promised tax cuts be delayed or even ditched altogether? Voters should demand a no-surprises rule from these contenders.
Both candidates will also have to do more than talk about campaign finance reform. Mr. Pataki and Mr. McCall show little remorse about harvesting money by the truckloads, much of it from private interests that want their say in Albany. Mr. Pataki announced a campaign finance reform plan on the last day of the legislative session in 1999. He reaped the credit, then let the whole idea lie fallow. Mr. McCall has promised to push for such reforms but has himself accepted funds from people who have connections to his comptroller's office. Neither side is showing any real leadership or courage on this issue.
Mr. Pataki must answer for the delay in reforming the Rockefeller drug laws that lock addicts into long mandatory sentences, and he must explain the failure to increase the minimum wage. Mr. McCall will have to assure voters that he can find a way to improve the upstate economy at the same time he matches Mr. Pataki's environmental record. The rebuilding of downtown Manhattan deserves more focus on the emotional and financial needs of the city, not merely today but in the decades to come.
The departing Mr. Cuomo says he intends to continue speaking out about the dysfunctional state of the political culture in Albany. We hope he keeps his word. Mr. Cuomo deserves credit for raising this issue in the campaign. No politician could do a greater service to New York than in spreading unease through the ever-complacent ranks of state government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); DRUG POLICY (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (62%); BONDS (62%); TAX LAW (62%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (60%); SENTENCING (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; EDITORIALS; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) CUOMO, ANDREW M; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002 



115 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Canada Central Bank Leaves Key Interest Rate Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Citing uncertain prospects for the American economy and turbulent financial markets, the Bank of Canada said today that it would leave its key overnight interest rate unchanged at 2.75 percent after three consecutive increases since April.
 The bank said that while "stronger-than-expected growth in domestic demand in Canada continues," prospects for growth in the United States -- where 85 percent of Canada's exports go -- and other major economies "appear to have weakened somewhat." 
 The Bank of Canada has plenty of company. The Reserve Bank of Australia said today that it would leave its overnight rate at 4.75 percent for a third consecutive month after quarter-point increases in May and June. Australia's economy grew a slower-than-expected 0.6 percent in the second quarter from the previous three months and retail sales fell in July. 
The Bank of England is expected to announce on Thursday that it will keep its key rate, the repo rate, at 4 percent, for the ninth straight month. Last month, the European Central Bank left its benchmark minimum refinancing bid rate at 3.25 percent for the ninth consecutive month; the Bank of Japan has left its monetary policy unchanged, holding rates at close to zero for a year and a half; and the United States Federal Reserve has kept its federal funds rate at 1.75 percent, where it has been since December.
Canada's economy remains buoyant. Gross domestic product expanded at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 4.3 percent in the second quarter and 6.2 percent in the first, the strongest first-half growth of any industrial nation. By comparison, the United States posted a 1.1 percent growth rate in the second quarter.
Avery Shenfeld, senior economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, ascribed Canada's relatively sturdy performance to its heavier dependence on the automotive and energy industries, both of which have grown strongly this year. The troubled technology and telecommunications industries make up a smaller component of the economy in Canada than in the United States.
Fearing that strong growth would unleash new inflationary pressures, the Bank of Canada moved its overnight rate up by a quarter percentage point at each of the previous three policy settings. Though it held the rate steady this time, it said today that if the economy continued to expand, further interest rate increases would be necessary to maintain the bank's inflation target of 2 percent. The bank's next monetary policy statement is scheduled for Oct. 16.
Mr. Shenfeld said today's decision to leave rates unchanged showed that the central bank "is more willing to recognize that Canada is not an island in the world economy."
Edward Carmichael, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Canada, wrote in a report today that second-quarter growth was propelled by inventory building. Growth in the third quarter is likely to be slower as domestic demand and exports slacken, Mr. Carmichael said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); RETAIL SALES (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%); RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%) BANK OF CANADA 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (90%); EUROPE (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



116 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: ABB to Sell Its Finance Unit to G.E. for $2.3 Billion 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
ABB said today that it had agreed to sell most of its financing unit to General Electric for $2.3 billion in cash.
 The Zurich-based ABB, a Swiss-Swedish builder of heavy machinery and electric power systems, is selling assets to pay off debt as it grapples with slumping demand for its products and mounting costs of asbestos-related lawsuits. The company has suffered a series of embarrassments in the last year, including a narrowly averted financial crisis and a public dispute with two former senior executives over their large retirement pay packages. 
 Jorgen Centerman, the chief executive, said the sale today was in line with a strategy of focusing on the power and automation businesses and shoring up the balance sheet by disposing of other assets. All the proceeds will go to retire debts, reducing the company's total to $2.9 billion from $5.2 billion at the end of June.
The acquisition will allow G.E., through its commercial finance subsidiary, to expand its toehold in the European structured-finance market. G.E. will take over loans, leases and other financial assets with a face value of $3.8 billion; it will also assume $1.2 billion in liabilities. Together, the two financing businesses operate in 100 countries and employ 150,000 people.
"ABB is one of the foremost European players in structured finance," said Cornelius Wijtvliet of F. van Lanschot Bankiers. "It will give G.E. a stronger grip on Europe."
Excluded from the deal are ABB Export Bank, an aircraft leasing company and ABB's 35 percent stake in the Swedish Export Credit Corporation. ABB said today that it was in talks to sell them, too, along with about $200 million in real estate.
ABB will also retain control of about $900 million in leasing assets related to its power and automation businesses, representing about 15 percent of its structured finance unit. And ABB will keep a financial advisory subsidiary that serves customers for its industrial projects.
Investors applauded ABB's efforts to get its finances in order. Its shares rose more than 13 percent in Swiss trading, to 8.65 Swiss francs ($5.88). G.E.'s shares rose 24 cents, to $28.70.
ABB has had a rough year, including deteriorating operating results, a sliding share price and management defections. Percy Barnevik, the longtime chairman, who supervised the merger that created ABB and was later frequently compared to John F. Welch Jr. of G.E., resigned in November after an uproar over $140 million in pension benefits -- an extraordinary figure by European standards -- that were awarded to Mr. Barnevik and another executive. 
The company lost $691 million in 2001, its first losing year, and posted a further $13 million loss in the second quarter of 2002, largely because of asbestos-related liability claims in the United States. The claims stem from industrial boilers made in the 1970's by Combustion Engineering, which was later bought by ABB. Though ABB eventually sold the company again, it retained responsibility for the liabilities.
Investors grew so concerned about ABB's prospects that willing buyers could not be found for an issue of the company's unsecured short-term notes, known as commercial paper, prompting Mr. Centerman to warn in March that ABB faced a cash squeeze.
ABB made it through that crisis by issuing bonds instead, but soon put the financing division up for sale.
G.E. took advantage of ABB's distress and drove a favorable bargain, analysts said. "G.E. knows these businesses very well," said Mark Demos of Fifth Third Investment Advisors. "And G.E. was in a better negotiating position than ABB."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorgen Centerman of ABB said proceeds of the company's sale to G.E. would be used to retire debt. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); ASBESTOS (76%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (76%); TOXIC TORTS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (71%); LITIGATION (71%); EXPORT PRICES (69%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%) BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ABB LTD (92%); SWEDISH EXPORT CREDIT CORP (66%); ABB EXPORT BANK (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); F VAN LANSCHOT BANKIERS NV (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; ABB LTD 

TICKER: ABJA (FRA) (92%); ABJ (FRA) (92%); ABBN (SWX) (92%); ABB (STO) (92%); ABB (NYSE) (92%); ABB (NSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (66%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%) SIC6726 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES; SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (58%) KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (88%) SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



117 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
In a City of Foreshadowing

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
"HE who is last had best laugh," wrote Gore Vidal of Romulus Augustus, the last ruler of imperial Rome. In the 18th century, as the sun set on yet another Italian empire, the Venetians lived by this comic-apocalyptic code.
 Not all of them carried on as gaudily as Casanova, the era's most colorful figure. Unspeakable misery befell prisoners held in secret chambers within the Palace of the Doges. But the spirit of Carnivale, still celebrated in Venice each February, was the era's presiding cast of mind. 
 That genius lives on at Ca' Rezzonico, Venice's sumptuous museum of 18th-century art and life. Though the palazzo's rich residents have long since disappeared, the harlequins remain, or at least Giandomenico Tiepolo's lively renderings of them. Ca' Rezzonico is now a gallery of ghosts, haunted by cavorting pulcinellas, stragglers from the glittering parties for which the house was built. 
Closed for renovations for more than a decade, the museum re-opened last year without much fanfare. Some belated trumpets, please. Those headed to Venice this month for the Eighth International Architecture Exhibition at the Biennale should not pass up the chance to visit this giant reliquary of a maritime power in its years of decline. A few may get a shock of recognition from the parallels between that era's restless pursuit of pleasure and our own. And the jewel of the Ca' Rezzonico's collection must on no account be missed: a panoramic fresco by Tiepolo titled "Il Mondo Nuovo" ("The New World").
The mural was painted by Tiepolo for his own mainland villa in the 1790's. In this surprisingly modern painting, Tiepolo depicts a cross section of Venetian society lining up for a magic lantern show of glass slides painted with North American views. A hazy, fluid background suggests distant horizons.
It is startling for an American, two centuries later, to gaze back at a crowd of Venetians straining to peer ahead toward us. Their Old World is collapsing. Our Mondo Nuovo beckons. Looking at the painting now, it may occur to some viewers that the situation is reversed. Exhausted by a long cold war and disoriented by its aftermath, some Americans now gaze across the Atlantic for tips on surviving triumphal success.
Though the 1,000-year-old Venetian Republic did not formally expire until 1797, the city's golden age had passed long before work began on the Ca' Rezzonnico. The expense of protecting its Mediterranean empire from the Turks was ruinous. The value of maintaining the empire had declined with the opening of new trade routes to the south and east.
As revenues from foreign trade shriveled, Venice turned in on itself to keep up opulent appearances. Casino gambling was perhaps the most publicly conspicuous of its schemes. A more genteel form of income derived from the marketing of patrician prestige. Arrivistes could buy their way into the Golden Book, official honor roll of the city's most illustrious families.
The Rezzonicos, a Genoese banking family, entered the rolls in 1687 at a cost of 100,000 ducats paid directly to the Venetian treasury. Completed in 1756, their house is a tribute to the rise in their social position. But half a century after moving in, the Rezzonicos had faded from history, impoverished by the cost of maintaining the house in the style to which it had become accustomed.
The Rezzonicos were not the first to be overextended by this imposing palazzo Broke-coco. They acquired the property in 1751 from the Bons, patricians of ancient lineage who were driven into bankruptcy by construction costs well before the house was finished. The house is thus the work of two Baroque masters: Baldassarre Longhena, architect of the magnificent Church of the Salute, who began it in 1649, and Giorgio Massari, who finished it 100 years later.
But its classical design can be seen as a symptom of Venetian decline. In the city's mightiest years, Venetian architects built in a Gothic style fused with Byzantine intricacy. The Venetian Gothic style reflected the city's view of itself as the "third Rome," an imperial lineage inherited, along with much military plunder, from Constantinople. Turning its back on the Italian mainland, Venice faced eastward across the sea.
The Renaissance, which came late to Venice, signified a major readjustment in the city's identity. As its control over the eastern Mediterranean waned, Venice recast itself in a Western image. The Baroque, the agitated style of rejuvenated, papal Rome, saw Venice through to its merry 18th-century end.
Ca' Rezzonico is as much house as museum, despite the grandeur with which the occupants lived. It is not a showplace for artistic masterworks, unless you rank lifestyle as an art. The displays are varied, ranging from an apothecary shop to chairs of such overwhelming sculptural ambition that their use as functional objects defies the imagination.
Come prepared for neck strain: the museum's most imposing artworks are the ceiling frescoes in the major rooms. Frescoes by Giandomenico Tiepolo's more celebrated father, Giambattista , depict the rise of the Rezzonicos with overblown metaphors. One, in the Nuptial Allegory Room, celebrates the family's alliance by marriage with the Savorgnans, a venerable Venetian dynasty. In the Throne Room, the figure of Merit holds the Golden Book: amid a celestial panorama of chariots and clouds, the party-crasher is transformed into the gatekeeper.
A gallery devoted to the work of Pietro Longhi presents Venice on a less exalted plane. Longhi's subject is the city's daily life, especially as it was enacted within the domestic interior. Painted in small scale, and displayed salon style on the walls, these richly human scenes absorb the visitor more deeply into 18th-century Venice than the palace itself. How much more extraordinary the city's watery reflections must have been in the days before electric light!
The Ca' Rezzonico's restoration is a pet project of Franca Coin, president of the Venice International Foundation, a group that supports the official civic museums of Venice. With her husband, Piergiorgio, of the Coin department store empire, Ms. Coin resides in another fabled palace on the Grand Canal, Palazzo Barbaro, where Henry James often stayed. James wrote "The Aspern Papers" in the house, and it inspired the palazzo in "The Wings of the Dove." The present owner is, James might say, "magnificent." Her passions range from the rebuilding of La Fenice opera house to welcoming young American artists and architects in town for the Biennale.
Giandomenico Tiepolo's frescoes have been restored with additional funding from the American organization Save Venice. In them, he satirizes the society his official commissions glorify. Dancing couples tippy-toe back and forth, trapped within their vast stupidity and the contraction of their place in a world of widening horizons.
Those horizons are the subject of Tiepolo's "Il Mondo Nuovo." With its pastel colors and flatness of surface, the painting looks surprisingly modern -- as if Tiepolo has not merely gazed at the distance but crossed over into it in his imagination. He reached the New World well over a century before Alex Katz was born. In this painting, Ca' Rezzonico offers a vista far more profound than the particular pleasures of architecture, painting and the manners of an age. We see here a critical pivot in urban history: how a city's end feeds into a new beginning.
Tiepolo's fresco foretells characteristics of our world. It depicts the concept of mass spectacle, for example, along with its power to cut across traditional distinctions of social class. In addition, it shows the hypnotic lure of the image. In contrast to the passion for authenticity that fueled the retrieval of St. Mark's remains from the Holy Lands and their interment in the basilica, the magic lantern beckons people into the sensory field of simulation.
Above all, perhaps, "Il Mondo Nuovo" illustrates the larger meaning of its title. People are lining up not merely to behold images of the New World, but to enter into the mythological world of the New. The novel. The next big thing. The painting looks toward the future of Venice itself: the creative international showcase that the city has become.
This weekend, for example, a cosmopolitan audience will be lining up for the opening day of the 2002 Venice Architecture Biennale, the world's foremost event of its kind. (The show runs from Sunday to Nov. 3; www.labiennale.org for information.) Titled "Next," this year's edition of the Biennale features sketches and models of buildings now on the drawing boards or under construction around the world. Though the emphasis is on the pragmatic side of building, "Next" will nonetheless showcase ideas, images and simulations, a selective and imaginary vision of a world to come. Beyond that, the exhibition crystallizes a global development already under way: the recasting of older urban centers within a cosmopolitan framework.
There presently exists no livelier forum for the exchange of ideas on the changing relationships between cities in the era of economic globalization. Nor does any other city's architectural heritage crystallize more perfectly the cosmopolitan idea than Venice itself. Ruskin recognized this when he called the Doges' Palace "the central building of the world" for its fusion of architectural influences from northern and southern Europe and the Orient. Today, the city occupies a pivotal position in the West as an international platform for urban visions.
Venice hasn't made a bad show of things since Napoleon took over, actually. It has spent the succeeding two centuries triumphing over its own political and economic demise. In the 19th century, the city was spiritual home to Romantics everywhere. It devoted the 20th century to Proust, fabulous parties and the most advanced developments in art, architecture and film.
A backwater in the industrial age, Venice has entered the 21st century way ahead of its time, as industrial cities now try to remake themselves as centers of cultural production. Who's got the last laugh now?

GRAPHIC: Photos: CRYSTAL GAZING -- On the eve of the forward-looking architectural biennale in Venice, Giandomenico Tiepolo's mural, right, in the Ca' Rezzonico museum, above, shows Venetians viewing images of the New World. (Franco Tanel/D-Day, for The New York Times); (Archivio Fotografico Musei Civici Veneziani)(pg. F1); PAST PROLOGUE -- Franca Coin of the Venice International Foundation, right, which renovated the Ca' Rezzonico, where Giandomenico Tiepolo's mural of Venetians at a magic lantern show, above, depicts a fading world glimpsing the future. Giambattista Tiepolo's frescoes, far right, reflect a striving bourgeoisie before its decline. Right, the ballroom. (Archivio Fotografco Musei Civici Veneziani); (Photographs by Franco Tanel/D-Day, for The New York Times)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); COLD WAR (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); GAMING (50%); CASINOS (50%) CA' REZZONICO (VENICE); ART; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEO DEL SETTECENTO VENEZIANO DEL CA' REZZONICO 

PERSON: TIEPOLO, GIANDOMENICO (1727-1804) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%) UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ITALY (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (70%) VENICE (ITALY)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



118 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1953 words

HEADLINE: AT HOME WITH: Vern Yip; 
Not Quite as Seen on TV

BYLINE:  By BRADFORD McKEE 

DATELINE: ATLANTA 

 BODY:
VERN YIP, a makeover artist on the Learning Channel's interior-design show "Trading Spaces," leads two design lives, one far more upscale than the other. On a rare day spent here, he drove down Interstate 75 ribbing a client from Tennessee on the phone about a $30,000 sectional sofa she was considering. The next day he was scheduled to film a spot for CNN on how to refurbish a dresser for under $100.
 In real life, Mr. Yip, 33, whose own brick house is expensively decorated in his signature restrained style, is an architect and an interior designer for clients to whom six figures is pin money. On episodes of the enormously popular "Trading Spaces," he has two days and $1,000 to help clueless proteges redesign a section of a neighbor's home. Since going on the air two years ago, "Trading Spaces," which copied the format of a British series, "Changing Rooms," has become the who-figured hit -- "The Osbournes" of domestic cable television. "Trading Spaces," like MTV's "Cribs" and HGTV's "Extreme Homes," makes the aw-shucks format of "This Old House" seem old hammer. 
 More than three million viewers watched the "Trading Spaces" marathon on Memorial Day, beating the major networks' prime-time programming. Past episodes are shown repeatedly, seven days a week. (The new season begins Saturday.) 
On and off screen, Mr. Yip, who calls himself "an introvert who forces myself to be an extrovert," has a calm surface that hides the engine of ambition purring along inside him. He is intensely detail-oriented and excruciatingly diplomatic, and he seems unfazed by frequent 20-hour workdays. His private clients know him for his clean, precisely arranged interiors, which are often Asian-inspired, with an occasional baroque touch. He is hardly a Johnny-one-note, but you can almost bet that a length of silk will enter his rooms at some point.
"What I really love is this notion that good, high-end design doesn't have to translate into a big budget," he said. That doesn't keep his private clients from paying, however. "The idea of Vern doing anything for a thousand dollars -- you'd probably hear his clients laugh about that," said David Jones, an Internet software developer who, with his wife, Wei-Chun Tai, relied on Mr. Yip to do their two-level penthouse in the Buckhead section of Atlanta. "When you go minimalist," Mr. Jones said, "less is more expensive."
Despite his "minimalist" signature, Mr. Yip's rooms are crowded with high-quality brand names. Inside his own house on a quiet street here, hardly a corner of any room could be done on his show's skimpy budget. His living room centers upon two matching Donghia couches covered in sand-colored silk with woven black and cream details; the silk is by Jim Thompson, known for Asian-inspired designs.
Although Mr. Yip's rooms are typically quiet, something always pops. In his living room, that would be the quartet of four deep-red abstract photographs, titled "The Cardinal Virtues," by Harriet Leibowitz, a local artist he likes. They hang behind a pair of Le Corbusier's Grand Confort chairs, designed in 1928. To keep the room from seeming too rational, he has hung an hourglass-shaped painting by Jimmy O'Neal, one of this favorite Atlanta artists.
In his dining room, Mr. Yip introduces Philippe Starck dining chairs to an 18th-century black wood prayer table from China and a 200-year-old elm wood prayer-garment chest from Tibet with dragons carved across its face.
Although it might disconcert Mr. Yip to say he is the most popular designer on the show, he is, tellingly, the only one not nominated as "most annoying" designer by the gossipy fans who log onto the "Trading Spaces"/"Changing Rooms" Fan Forum on the Internet. Natalie Maines, one of the Dixie Chicks, picked Mr. Yip to be her co-designer in the celebrity episode of "Trading Spaces" that ran in April.
Denise Cramsey, executive producer at Banyan Productions in Philadelphia, which produces "Trading Spaces," said Mr. Yip adds an architectural element that some of the other designers might lack. "Vern is the affectionately anal one," she said. "He pays great attention to detail." (Unlike Ms. Maines, the 300 people who apply each day to have their homes done over do not get to pick the designer they will work with.)
"Pays great attention to detail" may be Ms. Cramsey's euphemism for "exasperates others on the set."
"There's quite a bit of tension on Vern's sets," she said. "He's such a perfectionist, so he can drive other people crazy." The outtakes from his shows involve many shots of him fussing over his work, she added.
As Mr. Yip sees it, "Everybody has a different working style -- mine is obsessive compulsive." But the show's growing popularity may well owe something to his cool, modern restraint.
"Vern is always selected as one of the top designers," said Jon Hein, founder of jumptheshark.com, which tracks television shows from their peak popularity to their decline. "Yes, he whines from time to time, but his heart is in the right place. You won't find a wall of hay in any of Vern's rooms." (Mr. Hein was referring to an incident in which Hilda Santo-Tomas, another popular designer on the show, pasted hay to one homeowner's wall.)
Nor will you catch Mr. Yip removing someone's beloved ceiling fan, as another colleague, Laurie Hickson-Smith, did, nearly setting off a civil war among the show's devotees. 
"I have fans who both write and find my home address, find my mother's address, call my home number, have managed to find my cell number, and will sit out in front of the house," Mr. Yip said. They are not stalkers, but giddy teenagers. "Most of them don't come up to the house," he said, "They just want to say hi."
Mr. Yip was born in Hong Kong to Chinese parents, who moved to the Washington area when he was two months old. (His father is a chemist turned entrepreneur.) His childhood was filled with trips through Asia, Latin America and Europe. "My parents basically flew me everywhere to expose me to a lot of different cultures," he said. Those trips, he said, helped cultivate his eclectic taste. "The most boring style is to recreate a period of time. Your house is a private domain, not a commercial showroom."
He holds undergraduate degrees in chemistry and economics, and graduate degrees in architecture and management. He worked at the architectural firm of Cooper Carry in Atlanta, where he led the design of a pan-Asian restaurant called Fusebox, which is now closed. The design helped earn him the title of "southeast designer of the year" in 2000 from Veranda magazine.
People seem to like to Mr. Yip because he does the job expected of interior designers but defies the off-putting stereotypes: he is enthusiastic but the opposite of hysterical, reassuring rather than imperious. He said he steers clear of the "designer scene" in Atlanta. "I don't like to do what most designers like to do, so they don't like to play with me," he said. "I don't have time to participate in a lot of the social events."
It was Fusebox that brought him to the attention of Ed Roland, the lead singer of the rock band Collective Soul. "The food was O.K., but the decor was fabulous," said Mr. Roland, who hired Mr. Yip to design the interiors of his town house in Scottsdale, Ariz., "my favorite place in the world." Other clients include members of the hip-hop group OutKast and Jane Jackson, the Atlanta gallery owner known for her work as a curator of Elton John's photography collection. Ms. Jackson raves about the very pale blue he ordered for her walls. He is now doing a complete makeover of the house of Atlanta's alpha chef, Guenter Seeger.
Mr. Yip joined "Trading Spaces" in 2000, well after the first season had begun, at the suggestion of Ms. Santo-Tomas, an Atlanta acquaintance. "I just got a call one day," he said. "I had a whole lot of clients, so it wasn't something I was dying to do." But he decided it would be a decent platform for debunking "this notion that good design belongs to a very small percentage of society."
On the show, Mr. Yip operates a power drill and a sewing machine with equal agility. As for the possibility that most homeowners rip out the "improvements" as soon as the camera leaves, most of his subjects say they have been pleased with his work.
Last September on the show, he updated what he called an "excessively traditional" living room with French provincial furniture in the home of Jose and Julia Santa in Feeding Hills, Mass.; he replaced wallpaper with creamy beige paint, and added pumpkin and maroon drapes, new overhead lighting and lamps. In the year since the overhaul, Mr. Santa said, "We haven't added or deleted anything."
But another couple, Sandy and Bob Smith of Seattle, objected to his makeover of their sitting room. "They like peaceful, tranquil colors," said Ms. Cramsey, the producer, "and Vern painted it a deep royal red and gold, and they said, 'Yikes!' " They have since moved to Hawaii.
"All I can do is try my best," said Mr. Yip, who attributed the problem to a paint mix-up. "All I can say is, I'm sorry. You don't always get it right."
What he does get right is spoiling people. He has been known to help his high-end clients move furniture at 2 a.m. "I'm lucky enough that I get to be selective about who I get to take on as a client," he said. "My clients are people I'd wind up having dinner with anyway."
One of them, Kristie Abney of Atlanta, said Mr. Yip spent a whole day potting orchids at her house for a party. And another, Vicki Filstein, also of Atlanta, said: "He would come and make my bed every time he came in here. He was fanatical about how the bed and pillows had to be."
Mr. Yip's own bed is empty most of the time, as he is either on the road or plotting a way to become even better known. "I have no blood," he said. "It's 100 percent Diet Coke in my veins."

To the Fans: Do It Yourself

VERN YIP recently hired an assistant to answer the 50 requests he receives each day for him to do rooms cheaply, as he does on "Trading Spaces." "They don't necessarily understand interior design or that I've got my own practice outside the show," he said.
To help such redecorators, Mr. Yip plans to offer tips on his own Web site, www.vernyip.com. Meanwhile, design lessons can be learned from this Chicago breakfast room makeover from the show:

DOUBLE UP: Mr. Yip tries to make elements of his design serve two purposes. Adjustable cushions against a wall serve as hanging art; a banquette doubles as storage space.

LIGHTEN UP: Lighting makes or breaks the mood, he said. He tore out the breakfast room's chunky brass and glass chandelier and installed a suspended green Bloc S light fixture by Flos, $205 from Illuminations in Atlanta, (404) 876-1064, and three flexible wall lights.

LOOK UP, LOOK DOWN: People become fixated on their walls, he said, and ignore the rest. He paints ceilings bold colors to deepen the space. Here, the Op Art-style rug makes the breakfast room vibrate.

INVEST IN THE GOOD STUFF: "You can get to a point where you amass nothing of value," Mr. Yip said. Instead, you should buy a few good pieces to build the room around. And note: the "good stuff" can include a really wonderful lamp. In the breakfast room, the expensive element was the banquette, designed by Mr. Yip himself to open up the room and clear a path to the door.

DON'T FORGET TARGET AND IKEA: You can summon a high-end look cheaply. The rug ($24.99) came from Ikea, as did the two square unfinished pine Ingo tables ($49 each) he combined to make a rectangle. "I like to take something that's common and customize it," he said.
Mr. Yip also recommends synthetics like DuPont's "slick and affordable" Stainmaster carpets, which mimic woven sisals and sea grasses. BRADFORD McKEE

GRAPHIC: Photos: AWAY FROM THE SET -- Vern Yip, of "Trading Spaces," in his dining room with a Chinese sideboard, Thai and Burmese figurines and a painting by Jimmy O'Neal.; TRADING PRICE BRACKETS -- On "Trading Spaces," left, Mr. Yip labors with the host, Paige Davis; right, a cabinet by Mr. Yip sits in his den. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times; below left, the Learning Channel)(pg. F1); SAMPLE BOOK -- Mr. Yip is known for his clean, precisely arranged interiors. He designed a living room with a Mies daybed for Kristie and Charles Abney, top, and a boutique-hotel-style bedroom, above, for David Jones and Wei-Chun Tai. (Albert Trotman for The New York Times; below, Brian Gassel); WHAT MEETS HIS EYE -- Vern Yip, in his dining room, top left, and with a Chinese horse figure in his den, left. Above, Donghia couches covered in sand-colored Jim Thompson silk with woven black and cream details. Inset, an arrangement of alstromerias and kumquats. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times); CHANGING MINDS, ONE ROOM AT A TIME -- Vern Yip helped transform a Chicago dining area, left, using a graphic rug from Ikea and a built-in banquette. (Photographs by Natalie Maines/The Learning Channel)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%) INTERIOR DESIGN; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: YIP, VERN; MCKEE, BRADFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); MYANMAR (79%)

TITLE: TRADING SPACES (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



119 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Building Materials Company Ireland Loves to Hate 

BYLINE:  By BRIAN LAVERY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Ireland's boom years have benefited the construction industry like no other, and they have benefited no company like CRH. 
 From 1997 to 2001, the company, one of the largest suppliers of building materials in the world, more than doubled its sales, to 10.4 billion euros ($10.3 billion), and its profits, to 582 million euros ($577 million). Even this year, with the world economy slowing and building projects everywhere being delayed, CRH kept growing; on Monday it reported a 7 percent gain in sales and a 5 percent rise in profit for the first half of 2002. 
 For a company that employs 50,000 workers in 22 countries, including a growing presence in the United States, CRH keeps a remarkably low stance. Its stock accounts for 13 percent of the total value of all shares traded on the Irish Stock Exchange, behind only the country's two giant banks, but its name and logo are nowhere to be seen on its vast fleets of cement mixers and dump trucks. CRH is an immense roll-up, built by acquiring dozens of small companies, generally family owned, in what once was a fragmented industry. 
"We try to keep the crusty entrepreneurs on board," CRH's chief executive, Liam O'Mahony, said in an interview. "We keep the family name over the door."
That corporate modesty, though, has made the company a target of intense criticism in Ireland, and on a more muted scale in the United States. Critics say the company tries to use its numerous public names and its extensive political connections as a shield, preserving an illusion of competition in markets that it actually has all but cornered. CRH denies using any improper tactics.
The company has certainly been a very active buyer, spending an average of nearly $100 million a month on acquisitions over the last year and a half. Recent purchases include the EHL Group in Germany and parts of U.S. Aggregates, a bankrupt building materials company with operations in Idaho and Alabama. It is in talks to buy a cement plant in Egypt.
CRH bought 25 businesses in the United States last year, the largest being Mount Hope Rock Products in Wharton, N.J., for $144 million. CRH's American holding company, Oldcastle, is the leading American producer of asphalt, the No. 4 producer of aggregates, and No. 15 in ready-mix concrete. It owns companies that are regional leaders in glass, brick and precast products. In the New York area, it owns Tilcon and New York Trap Rock, major suppliers of aggregate and crushed rock for construction.
But the place where its weight is felt most, and where it has thrown off the most sparks, is Ireland. Mainly through Irish Cement, its main subsidiary here, CRH controls 80 percent of the Irish building materials market. For 60 years until 1993, the company was the only one licensed to make cement in the country.
CRH found itself the subject of unwelcome public attention earlier this year when it was linked to the biggest financial scandal in recent memory. The company's former nonexecutive chairman, Des Traynor, was found to have been running an illegal offshore bank out of CRH's offices and using it to operate a complex tax avoidance plan for some of the country's wealthiest businesspeople and politicians.
Mr. Traynor, who died in 1994, also served as a personal financial adviser and confidant to a disgraced prime minister, Charles J. Haughey, whose shadow still looms over contemporary Irish politics.
A government investigation cleared the company of any wrongdoing in the case, though it found that eight of its directors had accounts in the illegal offshore bank. The company's current chairman, Pat Molloy, said the board was "astonished" at the findings, condemned the tax-dodging and said Mr. Traynor had committed "a grave abuse of trust."
Still, when the Irish Parliament debated the matter in July, opposition politicians demanded an inquiry into whether the government might have unfairly favored CRH and helped it build its dominance in Ireland during the period when Mr. Traynor was running the operation.
In one deal that critics have questioned, the government sold 83 acres of scenic woodland at Glen Ding, south of Dublin, to the company in 1991 for 1.6 million euros without public bidding, after rebuffing other potential buyers; rock quarries on the property have since been valued at 89 million euros.
In 1999, a government anticorruption tribunal declined to examine the deal because the tribunal's chairman said he had a conflict of interest -- he owned a significant block of CRH stock. The tribunal was ordered by the Irish attorney general to proceed anyway; its inquiry is continuing.
CRH also ran into trouble in Britain, where a court found in 1996 that it had colluded with four other companies to fix prices in Northern Ireland. The same year, European Union officials fined Irish Cement for trying to stop the sale of cement across national borders. In 2000, CRH acknowledged that it was the operator of 11 companies, accounting for 3.5 percent of its revenue, that were not named in its annual report.
Mr. O'Mahony said that for all that, CRH is a model of transparency, winning frequent awards for the clarity and comprehensiveness of its financial reports. It recently began providing detailed breakdowns of its earnings across divisions, from materials to products and distribution, and it provides shareholders with details on how its acquisitions perform over time.
"We've always had a very simple corporate structure," Mr. O'Mahony said. "We come from a kind of Jesuitical school of accounting."
CRH's critics see it less benignly. Seamus Maye, a manufacturer in County Sligo in northwestern Ireland, said CRH drove his company, National Concrete, out of business in 1993 with unfair trade practices. He is suing CRH in the Irish courts and has sent details of his case to the Irish government's powerful Competition Authority. Mr. Maye also heads an alliance of nine Irish business families who have similar complaints against CRH.
Jim Larkin, owner of Larkin Quarries in western Ireland, said CRH is just as tough today. He said a CRH manager approached him in 2000 with demands that his company stick to certain price guidelines and refrain from seeking business outside a certain geographical area. When he refused, he said, an industry group supported by CRH caused him to lose two contracts worth more than 10 million euros, and he has since seen his annual sales fall by half. He also said that his trucks had been harassed with repeated inspections by local police officers who are friendly with the CRH manager. 
"We're looking for justice in the market," Mr. Larkin said. "They're fleecing the Irish market to subsidize their overseas acquisitions."
A CRH spokesman said that the accusations by Mr. Larkin and Mr. Maye were untrue, but that the company could not comment in detail because of continuing litigation.
In the United States, CRH's growing presence has been more evident in prices, according to industry executives. "These guys made a big investment here by buying lots of stone quarries, and now they're trying to recoup their investment by raising prices," said the vice president of a medium-sized ready-mix concrete plant in the New York area, referring to Tilcon. He said that companies like his have little choice but to pay Tilcon's prices for materials like three-quarter-inch stone, which has gone up from $9 to $13 a ton since 2000.
Carmine Valente, president of the New York Readymix Association and the head of Jenna Concrete, based in the Bronx, said many of his group's members were worried that Tilcon could raise prices at will, but he had not seen any such problems yet. "It's something to be aware of, but I haven't seen it materialize," he said.
CRH's Irish critics think it has certainly materialized there. Though CRH depends on Ireland for only 6 percent of its revenue, down from 11 percent in 1997, it gets 21 percent of its operating profits from its home country. Philip Lee, a law professor at University College Dublin who represents Mr. Maye in his suit against CRH, said such huge profitability could only be achieved by squelching competition.
"I don't think there's any other explanation," he said. "It isn't just that they're brilliant at making cement."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Sept. 5 about CRH, a building materials maker, referred incorrectly to its market share in Ireland. Analysts and industry experts estimate that at 70 percent, not 80.
The article also misstated the size of Glen Ding, a tract of woodland the company bought from the Irish government in 1991. It was 147 acres, not 83.
The article referred incorrectly to 11 subsidiaries that were not mentioned in the company's 1999 annual report. They accounted for 3.5 percent of CRH's revenue in Ireland, not overall revenue.
The article referred imprecisely to eight people who were found to be clients of an offshore bank run by Des Traynor, a former chairman of CRH who died in 1994. While the eight people were directors of CRH when they were clients of the bank, they are not currently on the board.
The article misstated the response of a CRH spokesman to accusations of unfair practices. The spokesman said that while the accusations made by a businessman, Seamus Maye, were not true, CRH could not comment in detail because of pending litigation; the spokesman was not asked about accusations of another businessman, Jim Larkin, which the company also denies.



GRAPHIC: Photo: CRH employs 50,000 workers in 22 countries, including a growing presence in the United States. Tilcon in Port Washington, N.Y., is one unit. (Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS MFG (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FAMILY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); CEMENT MFG (72%); EURO (72%); ASPHALT PRODUCTS MFG (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%) BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); SALES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOLDING CO (63%); MOUNT HOPE ROCK PRODUCTS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CHR (CO); EHL GROUP; US AGGREGATES; MOUNT HOPE ROCK PRODUCTS 

PERSON: LAVERY, BRIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRELAND (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EGYPT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%) IRELAND; GERMANY; 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



120 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Beware The Hedgehogs 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In the course of writing a Nixon speech imposing wage and price controls (I was only playing the piano downstairs, officer), I zapped "speculators" who were roiling the global gold and currency markets. 
 Arthur Burns reminded me that it was Bernard Baruch who startled Congressional investigators in 1917 by asserting coolly, "I am a speculator." Arbitrageurs, speculators and short-sellers, Baruch and later Burns explained, all help spread risk and make markets more liquid. 
 That was then; now it's gotten out of hand. The hidden hands of speculators, profiting from bad-news rumormongering, good-news insidership and no-news accounting, made markets unsafe for ordinary investors. 
Prosecutors hungry for publicity are subjecting billionaire suspects to "perp walks" in handcuffs before cameras. But few of the supposed watchdogs and gatekeepers deal with the market's structural weaknesses that go beyond ethical blindness and outright fraud.
One cause of the unusual, unstable jerking around of the stock markets -- with dizzying swings of 4 percent in a day -- is the kudzu-like growth of hedge funds, which have quintupled in the past decade. 
These are not your usual mutual funds. Because these agglomerations of capital are set up by wealthy and supposedly sophisticated investors, the government leaves them largely unregulated, and the funds' managers can keep their investments secret. Because many of those managers take not just a fee but 20 percent of any profits from the funds' investments, their incentive is to borrow heavily from a friendly bank or broker and roll the dice. 
So what, you say -- let the richies take their chances. But such leveraged risk-taking, now on a huge scale, adds to the volatility of all markets. Also, some managers who have hedged their investment bets --by selling short in expectation of a decline in a stock -- have an incentive to spread rumors of bad news, just as buyers have an incentive to tout stocks with rosy predictions.
Hedge funds are deliberately opaque. This concealment of investments protects them from competing funds, claim the 20-percenters. However, their secrecy masks an operation that the public would benefit from opening to the light of day. 
Stealthily, the S.E.C. in June began an investigation into this $300 billion world. Two months ago the commission sent demands for information to registered investment advisers about hedge-fund activity. More recently, unregistered advisers who are more active hedgehogs were sent similar letters from the S.E.C.'s Division of Investment Management. 
Though its acronym is DIM, the division's brighter staff members are at first looking into fraud in hedge-fund operations. These investment vehicles have long been unmonitored solely because they are supposed to be limited to institutions, university endowments, net-worthies and other high rollers. Later, as the investigation with its subpoena power moves into the audit stage, DIM's questioning is expected to broaden: What kind of new investors are being lured into hedge funds?
Many of these funds have done less badly than stock indexes in the recent past's sinking market, and some shrewd managers earn the high percentage of profit they take down. (Such feigning of fairness is known in my dodge as the "to be sure" sentence; it is followed by a "but.") 
But one of those reputable managers tells me that in recent years his industry has attracted sharpies and crapshooters eager to get in on a deal that enables them to profit handsomely on no personal investment -- while other investors take the high risk. 
Many hedgehogs will tell you that market volatility is caused less by their leveraged machinations than by the growth of program trading. They say the computer is the culprit, regularly forming what used to be illegal "bear pools" to drive down stock prices. I don't buy that.
Hedge funds, with their bank-backed leverage multiplied by investment in derivatives, ought to be required to disclose their operations, same as mutual funds. "Protect the rich" is not much of a bumper sticker, but what the risk-prone hedgehogs do has a nervous-making effect on the rest of the market. 
In economics as in politics, secrecy generates suspicion. Disclosure, especially in detail, begets the bored yawn of confidence. We can use a little more of that trust this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); SUBPOENAS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (74%); ACCOUNTING (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BONDS (71%); ENDOWMENTS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; HEDGE FUNDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); MUTUAL FUNDS 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



121 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Economic Anguish of 9/11 Is Detailed by Comptroller 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
The attack on the World Trade Center will cost New York City $83 billion to $95 billion, depending on how many businesses wind up leaving the city, according to a report issued yesterday by William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller.
 The report sought to quantify tangible losses, including the amount of office space destroyed and the number of jobs lost, as well as less tangible ones -- for example, the effect that post-Sept. 11 attack symptoms like shock, disbelief and anger have on worker productivity. 
 "While this devastating event can never be reduced to numbers, it is clear that New York City and the nation will continue to suffer its economic ramifications for years to come," Mr. Thompson wrote in the report, which he released yesterday at a meeting of the Association for a Better New York, a civic group. 
The losses itemized in the report are staggering. About 13 million square feet of prime office space was destroyed, an amount equaling the office-space inventory of entire cities like Atlanta or Miami, the report said. An additional 17 million square feet was damaged. The report put the cost of lost and damaged property at $21.8 billion.
Then there was the human toll, which also had an economic cost. Of the 2,819 people killed in the attack, the report said, 2,627 either worked at the trade center or were rescue workers. In a grim mathematical equation, the report calculated the number of years those victims would otherwise have worked before retiring at age 65, and their average salary, to conclude that their deaths caused $8.7 billion in lost earnings.
The report also described the longer-term losses to the city's economy, some of which may be related to the recession that was already producing layoffs and suppressing consumer spending.
The loss of jobs was steep. From September 2001 to July 2002, the city lost 83,100 jobs, the report said. On top of that, the report said, the city should count a further loss of 63,000 more jobs it had expected to create before the attacks, for a total loss of 146,100 jobs. Mr. Thompson put the cost of lost wages at $17 billion.
The loss of business -- which the report called the Gross City Product -- was steep as well. In only the first three months after the attack -- which included the first days when the airports were closed, the stock market was shut down, downtown Manhattan was inaccessible and theaters were dark -- the city lost $11.5 billion in business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TERRORISM (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); RECESSION (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL; THOMPSON, WILLIAM C JR (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



122 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Construction Spending Was Flat During July 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Construction spending was flat in July, the Commerce Department reported today, as an increase in government work helped blunt cutbacks in private construction projects, which dropped to the lowest level in nearly six years.
 After declining for two months, the level of construction spending in July was unchanged at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $834.1 billion, the Commerce Department said. 
Analysts had expected a 0.4 percent drop. 
 That report and more forward-looking data showing that manufacturing barely grew in August point to a sputtering economic recovery, economists said.
In the construction market, the commercial sector continues to be a source of weakness, reflecting reluctance by businesses to make big commitments in capital spending -- including new factories and other buildings -- given economic uncertainties, analysts said.
Another possible factor for sagging commercial construction is difficulties some companies are having in obtaining terrorism insurance after Sept. 11, some economists said.
"Nonresidential building has been the weakest part of the construction picture and a big victim of 9/11," said Clifford Waldman, an economist with Waldman Associates.
Spending on all commercial projects by private builders fell 2.2 percent in July, to a rate of $162.1 billion, the lowest level since September 1996. Spending on industrial complexes dropped 4.3 percent in July to a rate of $15.5 billion, the lowest level since May 1978.
Spending on hotels and motels -- another segment still feeling the lingering effects of the terror attacks -- dipped to a rate of $10 billion in July, the lowest level in six years. Spending on schools and hospitals also declined. Spending on office buildings edged up 0.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (79%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); TERRORISM (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



123 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Western Hemisphere's States Support Unblocking of Aid to Haiti 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
In a significant policy shift for the United States, the Organization of American States resolved today to support Haiti's proposal that millions of dollars in foreign aid be unblocked and that legislative elections be held next year, despite the opposition's refusal to negotiate a political settlement.
 Washington has conditioned the resumption of aid on resolving the opposition's objections to the May 2000 elections. The resolution was also a setback for the opposition coalition, the Democratic Convergence, and a victory for President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who had blamed the international community for contributing to what was seen by many as a growing humanitarian crisis. 
 That social decline, as well as increased violence and instability in recent months and the Convergence's adamant refusal to negotiate with the government, increased pressure on the United States to pursue a new strategy, diplomats said. 
"Our policy has always been to promote some sort of democratic track for the Haitians, and that has not changed a bit," said Ambassador Roger Noriega, the United States's representative to the Organization of American States and the current chairman of its Permanent Council. 
The resolution, passed by consensus this morning in Washington, calls for the establishment of an electoral council, requires the Haitian government to improve justice and public security and keeps the door open for a role for the opposition. It also called for normalizing relations with international lenders, who have suspended millions in aid.
The resolution also provides a greater role for the current Organization of American States special mission to Haiti, including increased United States financing. "This is a sea change that creates a new dynamic," said Luigi Einaudi, the organization's assistant secretary general. "It has no guarantees, but it puts pressure on everybody and has something for everybody."
The opposition, which has long insisted that Mr. Aristide's government is illegitimate, called most recently for a consensus government to resolve the crisis. But international officials have begun to lose patience with Convergence, which has become increasingly fragmented.
Gerard-Pierre Charles, a Convergence leader, said he would not obstruct any progress, but he faulted the O.A.S. for what he said was a "bilateral" agreement with Lavalas, Mr. Aristide's party. "We doubt it can succeed," he said in a telephone interview. "The Lavalas government is so corrupt and it does not respect its own words. It will use this resolution like a green light to promote a personal and violent regime."
The European Union, which has conditioned the release of $350 million in aid on a political accord, did not immediate say whether it would release its money. 
Last week, another O.A.S. report criticized Mr. Aristide's government for failing to ensure human rights and end the impunity enjoyed by gangs of armed thugs. Given those reservations, some diplomats and political analysts said that the resolution today may have more to do with domestic American politics than with Haiti's political impasse. 
They said the Bush administration was eager to deflect mounting criticism from Congressional Democrats over maintaining a Haiti policy that was only hurting the citizens of the hemisphere's poorest nation. 
Diplomats also noted that despite the resolution, there would be no flood of financing to Haiti as the government would first have to clear up some $30 million in arrears and undertake administrative reforms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%) HAITI; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



124 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Wider WorldCom Case Is Called Likely 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO with JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors said yesterday that their investigation of accounting practices at WorldCom might result in new charges and indictments against executives involved in the company's effort to hide billions of dollars of expenses.
 Two executives who were charged in the case last month were arraigned yesterday and pleaded not guilty. 
 David Anders, an assistant United States attorney, told Judge Barbara Jones at the arraignment in United States District Court that investigators were analyzing about 150 boxes of evidence that would be turned over soon to her. 
The possibility of new charges suggests that a plea deal reached last week with three former WorldCom executives continues to produce results for prosecutors. The deal was reached with David F. Myers, WorldCom's former controller, and two former accounting officials, Betty L. Vinson and Troy M. Normand.
Under that deal, the executives agreed to provide testimony about other executives involved in an accounting scheme that disguised more than $7 billion of expenses and resulted in an abrupt financial collapse and bankruptcy filing by WorldCom, according to people involved in the investigation.
"The government is continuing its investigation," Mr. Anders said in court, "and we do plan to supersede at some point to add charges to the same scheme and potentially to add defendants." 
At the hearing, Scott D. Sullivan, WorldCom's former chief financial officer, and Buford Yates Jr., the former director of general accounting, pleaded not guilty on several counts of securities fraud and filing misleading information with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
David Schertler, a lawyer for Mr. Yates, said yesterday that he was seeking to shift his client's trial from New York to Mississippi, where Mr. Yates resides. Mr. Yates was released yesterday on a $500,000 bond.
Irvin B. Nathan, Mr. Sullivan's lawyer, declined to comment after the hearing. Mr. Sullivan was arrested last month, then released on a $10 million bond secured by his home in Boca Raton, Fla.
The judge set a pretrial hearing for Dec. 9.
In the meantime, WorldCom, one of the largest long-distance companies and carriers of Internet traffic, is trying to operate its business in a relatively normal manner as it seeks to emerge from bankruptcy.
The company, which is based in Clinton, Miss., sought a bankruptcy court's approval yesterday to make severance payments to employees laid off before its filing. Severance payments to thousands of such employees were limited to $4,650 each, even though WorldCom owed employees double or triple that amount in some cases.
"We view this motion as a very important step toward justice for these folks," said Damon A. Silvers, associate general counsel at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "We are certainly very pleased to see it."
WorldCom is also effectively reducing the amount it will pay to 19 executives who were terminated before the company filed for bankruptcy. Originally, the executives were to receive $900,000 in "enhanced severance," but according to the motion, the company now intends to pay them only what they would be entitled to under WorldCom's normal severance policies.
A hearing on WorldCom's motion is scheduled for Oct. 1.
In a separate development, a United States bankruptcy court judge, Arthur Gonzalez, approved an agreement reached yesterday between WorldCom and Verizon Communications, the large provider of local phone service. WorldCom will pay Verizon $35 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buford Yates Jr., WorldCom's former director of general accounting, pleaded not guilty yesterday on several securities fraud counts. (Adam Rountree/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); SEVERANCE PAY (84%); LAYOFFS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); ETHICS (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; BANKRUPTCIES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; MONEY LAUNDERING; PLEA BARGAINING; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%) WORLDCOM INC; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; GLATER, JONATHAN D; MYERS, DAVID F; VINSON, BETTY L; NORMAND, TROY M; SULLIVAN, SCOTT D; YATES, BUFORD JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



125 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk; 
For Candidates, Crimes Are Now Wearing White

BYLINE:  By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
If the issue of crime reappears as a political perennial this campaign season, it will probably be personified by an executive in a thousand-dollar suit rather than a scowling Willie Horton lookalike.
 These days, a lot more indignation is heard at the White House and on Capitol Hill about wrongdoing committed by insider trading and tricky accounting than by guns, knives and burglary tools. Campaign strategists say the politicians' concern reflects that of millions of Americans who have seen their portfolios and pensions shrivel while a few well-connected executives have gotten rich through questionable dealings. 
 "This is a white-hot issue," said Fred Yang, a pollster who advises Democratic candidates. "People don't like to see greedy C.E.O.'s, powerful people bending the rules." 
A Republican strategist agreed, up to a point. "If crime is going to be discussed, it will probably be white-collar crime," he said. 
But this strategist, who spoke on condition of anonymity, insisted that he had not detected any rush by the voters to blame either party. That may be, he said, because Democrats and Republicans agree on what to do: punish the wrongdoers. 
"White-collar crime will pay a larger role in the elections, because it's seen as connected to the economy and people's savings," said Bill Buck, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee. 
Mr. Buck said he was amused by what he considered President Bush's belated eagerness to sound tough on the issue. "He gives the same kind of stump speech he used to use against the terrorists in Tora Bora," Mr. Buck said.
Kevin Sheridan, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, had a different take. He said Mr. Bush had shown strong leadership from the start, as well as "the Republicans in Congress."
Mr. Sheridan predicted that some Democrats would try to make white-collar crime "a partisan political issue." But he also expressed doubt that voters would blame politicians.
Strategists in both parties acknowledged that the late-summer political snapshots might not reflect the landscape on Election Day. But for now, "crime" wears a dress shirt and bears no resemblance to Willie Horton, the furloughed-prisoner-turned-rapist whom Republicans used against Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts in the 1988 presidential campaign. 
No one is saying that Americans have quit locking their doors. But as an emotional vote-getter, violent crime "is just not there," Mr. Yang said, and has not been for several elections.
Crime fell throughout the 1990's. Experts debate why: better policing, less use of crack cocaine, fewer crime-prone youths, more criminals in jail, or some or all of the above.
Violent crime rose slightly in 2001 from the year before, according to federal statistics. But there is less crime now than a decade or so ago.
Strategists in both parties cited Colorado's Senate race as one in which claims of white-collar misbehavior are grist for the campaigns. Senator Wayne Allard, a Republican, is running against his 1996 Democratic opponent, Tom Strickland, a former United States attorney.
The Strickland campaign has gone after Mr. Allard for his ties to Qwest Communications, the Denver-based phone company that has acknowledged accounting irregularities. The Allard forces countered by noting that Mr. Strickland's law firm once lobbied for Global Crossing, the fiber optic company whose collapse is the subject of several inquiries. 
Both candidates have portrayed themselves as scourges of white-collar wrongdoers. Mr. Allard has written Attorney General John Ashcroft, urging the Justice Department to seize the assets of "corporate criminals." Mr. Strickland has pointed to his record of prosecuting health-care fraud and environmental violations.
Some other issues may arise. Mr. Allard, according to his campaign, backs the rights of gun owners, for instance, while a spokeswoman for Mr. Strickland said he had toughened enforcement of gun laws as a federal prosecutor.
Gun control may have been dormant as an issue, but Colorado knows how things can change. In 1999, two teenagers shot 13 people to death at Columbine High School near Denver before killing themselves.
Of course, campaigns respond to events. Another business scandal could stoke corporate crime as an issue, or unforeseen occurrences could alter the public's focus in ways impossible to predict in a state split by contradictory political strains. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BURGLARY (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (63%); INSIDER TRADING (57%); TERRORISM (50%); COCAINE (50%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; WHITE COLLAR CRIME 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) STOUT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



126 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: More Visitors, Less Spending In New York 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Despite the troubled economy and the World Trade Center attack, slightly more Americans visited New York City in 2001 than in 2000, tourism officials said yesterday. But that news was muted by the fact that domestic visitors spent nearly 10 percent less here last year than in 2000.
 The officials, who said they did not know exactly why there were more domestic visitors, speculated that Americans were making fewer trips abroad and heeding patriotic calls to visit the city, even though domestic spending was nearly $1 billion less here in 2001 than in 2000. 
 The number of international visitors to New York City dropped last year, though specific figures will not be released until later this year. 
Preliminary numbers for the first eight months of 2002 show that domestic visits to New York City are almost at 2001 levels but that spending is still lagging.
Regardless of the reasons for the increase in domestic visitors last year, city and state officials said, the new data show that Americans did not abandon New York City in the numbers once anticipated.
"The domestic numbers that are coming out are better than expected," said Cristyne L. Nicholas, the president and chief executive of NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitor's bureau. 
At hotels, restaurants, museums and tourist attractions, from the Empire State Building to Madame Tussaud's wax museum, officials report that their visitor numbers for the beginning of this year all exceeded forecasts made after the Sept. 11 attacks..
According to D. K. Shifflet & Associates, a Virginia market research company hired by tourism officials, the largest increases in domestic visitors fit into two categories: people on day trips and those coming to see friends and relatives. The most striking declines were among business travelers.
"What the numbers show us is that the occupancy of hotels and businesses in general is really good," said Jonathan Tisch, the chairman and chief executive of Loews Hotels and chairman of NYC & Company. 
"What is distressing is that the mix of travel has dramatically changed, which is not good, and that the length of stay has dramatically shortened."
According to NYC & Company, 29.5 million domestic tourists visited New York in 2001, compared with 29.4 million in 2000, which was believed to have been the height of the tourism boom in the city.
But the drop in spending by domestic visitors and the shortening of their visits have alarmed tourism officials.
So has the decrease in the number of business travelers (who on average spend $241 per day in New York, compared with $145 per day for leisure travelers) and in international tourists (who spend, on average, six times more than domestic visitors).
Behavior also changed. Business travelers who came to New York were less likely to stay overnight, and many leisure travelers sought cheaper deals and often spent some time staying with friends and relatives. 
Mr. Tisch said tourism officials remain focused on recapturing international tourists. But he said that they must also focus on getting Americans who come to the city to spend more money.
Each month from October 2001 to March 2002, hotel occupancy rates increased in comparison with the same month in the previous year, according to PKF Consulting, a hotel market research company in Manhattan. The occupancy rate in July 2002 was 72.7 percent, down from 74 percent in July 2001.
But John A. Fox, a senior vice president at PKF, said yesterday that the lack of high-spending international tourists and business travelers had prevented the average price paid to rent a room from recovering.
At the Empire State Building, the number of visitors in the first eight months of 2002 was 1 percent higher than in the same period of 2001, according to Howard J. Rubenstein, an Empire State Building spokesman. 
But Mr. Rubenstein added that most of the building's visitors in recent months had been Americans -- not the heavy-spending international tourists who the city's tourism industry relies on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tourists from Tennessee posed with police officers in Times Square yesterday. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Graph: "STATUS REPORT: Hotels Rebound"Following a sharp drop in New York City hotel occupancy rates after the terrorist attacks, the industry has substantially recovered. Graph tracks difference in occupancy rates from the previous year in percentage points.(Source: PKF Consulting)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); TRENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: LOEWS HOTELS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%)

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



127 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: No Extension For Tax Breaks For Education 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
The House today rejected a bill making permanent the education tax breaks enacted last year as part of the $1.35 trillion tax cut. Democrats said the measure would take money away from public schools and add to the federal government's financial crisis.
 The legislation would have extended tax relief beyond 2010 for those investing in education savings accounts. It had the strong backing of the Bush administration and House Republicans seeking to confirm their tax-cutting credentials before the election. 
 The bill received 213 votes, but it failed to reach the two-thirds majority needed under a special procedure, normally used for noncontroversial bills, that limits debate and prohibits amendments. Voting against the legislation were 188 House members. 
Almost all Democrats followed the advice of Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, who urged the bill's defeat. He cited the mounting budget deficits and said the bill "provides tax breaks equivalent to vouchers for private schools at the elementary and secondary level."
Because of a Congressional budget rule, the 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut enacted last year will expire at the end of 2010 unless extended by Congress. House Republicans have responded this year by pushing through a half-dozen bills to make different parts of the tax cut permanent. The bills have stalled in the Democratic-led Senate.
"I think the president would have a hard case to make with regard to further aggravating that debt and our circumstances fiscally with the advocacy of additional tax cuts," Senator Tom Daschle, the South Dakota Democrat who is the majority leader, said today.
The education bill would have made permanent provisions that increased the annual contribution limit to education savings accounts from $500 to $2,000, and expanded those savings account benefits to cover expenses at public, private and religious schools for students in kindergarten through 12th grade.
It also would have extended the tax-free status for employer-provided higher education assistance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (93%); TAX LAW (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (72%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (67%); RELIGION (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SAVINGS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



128 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Criticizes Demands for Bailout 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Argentina's hopes of securing aid vital to end its worst ever recession appeared to fade today after the government openly scorned International Monetary Fund and United States demands for a better crisis strategy.
 Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said in Washington that it had been a struggle to push Argentina to devise reforms for the crippled financial sector and monetary policy, and that those eventually put forward were not good enough. 
 An outraged President Eduardo Duhalde told journalists in Buenos Aires, "Don't pay much attention to the comments of Paul O'Neill."
During eight months of talks, the I.M.F. and Washington have tried to cajole Argentina to adopt reforms that Washington believes will create a platform for growth in a country that has suffered four years of crushing recession.
"Every morning we are surprised by some journalist asking us about a senor from the United States or another part of the world giving an opinion over the chances Argentina has for reincorporating itself into the world economy," Mr. Duhalde said.
Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna then read Mr. O'Neill's comments, saying that Argentina had already fulfilled its part of the bargain in addressing his reservations and that it was the I.M.F. that had delayed replying to the draft letter of intent.
Argentina has defaulted on part of its $104 billion public debt, the peso has tumbled 70 percent since January's devaluation and the banking system is in tatters.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TRENDS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (56%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (90%) ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



129 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Miami Sees Challenge On Gay Rights, Again 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
More than two decades after the campaign by the entertainer Anita Bryant to overturn one of the country's first gay rights ordinances divided Miami and cast the city as a symbol of intolerance, voters will face the issue again on Tuesday.
 Conservative Christian groups have placed a measure on the ballot to repeal a Miami-Dade County ordinance approved four years ago protecting gays from discrimination. 
 But this time the move for repeal has been met with outrage by many residents and city leaders who are not just opposed to it, but are actively campaigning against it.
The battle over the initiative is highly charged and is being closely watched by gay rights activists and civil rights organizations nationally. But the outcome may be more a measure of just how much Miami has evolved in its acceptance of diverse lifestyles since the first measure was repealed. 
In a city often divided by race and ethnicity, a poll released today by The Miami Herald and the local NBC television station found strong opposition to the repeal measure in all racial and ethnic groups.
"We're trying to build an image of international metropolis, a bridge among cultures, but we would be saying, 'By the way, it's O.K. to discriminate based on sexual orientation,' " said Mayor Alex Penelas of Miami-Dade County. "That would just be wrong. We would be turning the clock back several years."
Mayor Penelas has become so involved in the issue that he has recorded a phone message that is being played to residents in which he urges them to vote against the repeal.
Hundreds of other prominent Miami business, civic, community and religious leaders, including the singer Gloria Estefan, the Latin television personality Cristina Saralegui and the mayors of more than 30 county municipalities, also support the "No to Discrimination/SAVE Dade" campaign opposing the repeal.
Civic and community leaders say repeal would threaten not only the livelihoods of local gay men and lesbians but also the county's all-important tourism industry and Miami's image as an international city that embraces diversity.
Proponents of repeal, led by a group called Take Back Miami-Dade and supported by the Christian Coalition of Miami-Dade County and other conservative religious groups, say the ordinance extends unnecessary protection to people with deviant lifestyles.
Since getting the measure on the ballot, supporters have become less vocal in the face of widespread criticism.
But Nathaniel Wilcox, co-chairman of Take Back Miami-Dade, which was formed to support the repeal, said of gays: "They are using a tactic of deception in order to get into the government to force their lifestyle on people. As a Christian, as a man of God, I can't stand up and justify backing a behavior that destroys families."
The ordinance was passed in December 1998, when Miami-Dade County commissioners voted 7 to 6 to amend the county's antidiscrimination ordinance to prohibit unequal treatment of gays in housing, employment, credit and finance and public accommodation. The 1998 ordinance is similar to the one that had been overturned. At the time, there were two catalysts for the change here.
One was the case of Matthew Shepard, a gay college student in Wyoming who died in October 1998 after he was kidnapped, beaten and left tied to a fence for 18 hours. The crime prompted outrage over hate crimes nationwide and became a theme here during the hearing that preceded the 1998 vote.
The other factor was that many Miami-Dade political and civic leaders rallied behind the measure, arguing that intolerance was bad for an economy that depended on tourism and a county with a sizable gay population. Today more than ever, Miami Beach's trendy South Beach section is heavily populated with gay residents and attracts many gay tourists each year.
Organizers of the repeal initiative have been determined to challenge the ordinance since it was passed. Take Back Miami-Dade failed to obtain enough signatures on a petition to get the issue on the ballot in 1999. The group reorganized and gained the signatures needed to get the measure before voters on Sept. 10.
About 230 municipalities in 11 other states and the District of Columbia have antidiscrimination ordinances that extend protection to gay men and lesbians, according to the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. Officials in Ypsilanti, Mich., Tacoma, Wash., and Westbrook, Me., said today that challenges to similar ordinances in their cities were also pending.
Miami, though, is seen as the key battleground on the issue because of the historical significance of the local ordinance. "We have decided to draw a line in the sand and we will stop them," Lorri Jean, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, said of the repeal organizers. "People all over the country are watching this and we want to show the world that the people of Miami-Dade aren't going to tolerate it."
The strategizing over the ordinance issue here has at times resembled guerrilla warfare. In one development, the legitimacy of the petition drive was called into question when two supporters of the repeal were arrested in August and charged with falsely claiming to witness petition signatures and two others were charged with illegally notarizing their own signatures. The defendants have pleaded not guilty to the charges, which their lawyer called politically motivated.
In another controversy, repeal organizers circulated a flier in August at black churches that included an image of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and a picture of two men kissing. It said, "Martin Luther King did not march or die for this" and urged worshipers to vote in favor of the repeal. Immediately after the flier began circulating, the King Center in Atlanta issued a statement on behalf of Dr. King's widow, Coretta Scott King, calling for equal treatment for gay men and lesbians.
Take Back Miami-Dade has also claimed in broadcast advertisements and to its supporters that gays are "after our children," an echo of Ms. Bryant's campaign, which was called Save Our Children. Opponents of the group say Take Back Miami-Dade is using sensational scare tactics to create support for an otherwise indefensible issue.
"For our opponents, dealing with the facts is not as effective as trying to scare people into thinking this law is somehow detrimental to the community," said Heddy Pena, chairwoman of SAVE Dade. Ms. Pena said the repeal supporters' efforts had instead galvanized the community in support of gay rights and cited her involvement in Save Dade as an example.
"My husband is African-American and I am Hispanic, and when the issue surfaced about discrimination against a group that didn't affect us personally we had to ask ourselves when is discrimination right, and the answer is never," Ms. Pena said.
The vote is considered historically significant because the county was the first major urban area to pass legislation protecting gays when it did so in 1977. Ms. Bryant, a former Miss America who lived in Miami Beach, called the original ordinance an effort to legitimize "a perverse and dangerous way of life."
Ruth Shack, 71, the county commissioner who introduced the language to extend protections to gays in the 1977 ordinance, said she was troubled that the issue had now resurfaced.
"I'm dismayed that the community has to go through this all over again," Ms. Shack said. "Substitute the word 'Jews,' 'blacks' or 'women' for 'sexual orientation' and eyebrows would raise and tempers would flare. All we're talking about is discrimination, and it's 25 years later." 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about a ballot initiative in Miami-Dade County, Fla., that would repeal an ordinance banning discrimination against gays misstated the involvement of Anita Bryant with the Miss America pageant. Ms. Bryant, who led a successful effort to repeal a similar ordinance in Florida 25 years ago, was a former contestant but not a former Miss America.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); LGBT RIGHTS (92%); ORDINANCES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); TOURISM (50%) HOMOSEXUALITY; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; DISCRIMINATION 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA; BRYANT, ANITA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (99%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) MIAMI (FLA); MIAMI-DADE COUNTY (FLA); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



130 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
An Alternative To Microsoft Gains Support In High Places

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Governments around the world, afraid that Microsoft has become too powerful in critical software markets, have begun working to ensure an alternative.
 More than two dozen countries in Asia, Europe and Latin America, including China and Germany, are now encouraging their government agencies to use "open source" software -- developed by communities of programmers who distribute the code without charge and donate their labor to cooperatively debug, modify and otherwise improve the software. 
 The best known of these projects is Linux, a computer operating system that Microsoft now regards as the leading competitive threat to its lucrative Windows franchise in the market for software that runs computer servers. The foremost corporate champion of Linux is I.B.M., which is working with many governments on Linux projects.
Against this opposition, Microsoft has found itself in the uncommon position of campaigning for the even-handed competition of "a level playing field." And I.B.M., once the feared monopolist of the era of mainframe computers, is casting itself as a force of liberation from Microsoft, the monopolist of today. 
Microsoft worries that some governments may all but require the use of Linux for their powerful servers, which provide data to large networks of computer users. For the most part, the battle does not involve the kind of software that runs on the typical computer user's desk.
To curb such moves, Microsoft is backing an industry group called the Initiative for Software Choice. The group lists 20 members -- besides the chip maker Intel, a close ally, most of them small foreign companies or organizations. (Illegally stifling choice, of course, was precisely what the federal courts in the long-running antitrust case ruled that Microsoft did in the market for personal computer software.)
The motivations and actions by foreign governments vary somewhat, but mostly they seem to be trying to ensure competition. That was the stance taken by a delegation of Chinese officials involved in developing their software industry, who visited the United States last month.
In an interview, Jiang Guangzhi, director of a software development center in Shanghai, discussed the progress made in China on various Linux projects and emphasized that the government did not want one company "to manipulate or dominate the Chinese market." With its entry into the World Trade Organization, China is facing increased pressure to crack down on software piracy, adding to the appeal of free software like Linux, Mr. Jiang said.
His delegation had attended the LinuxWorld conference in San Francisco, and met with I.B.M. executives and its Linux experts at the company's headquarters in Armonk, N.Y.
Yet Mr. Jiang also spoke glowingly of Microsoft's involvement in China. The company set up a research laboratory in Beijing and recently made a commitment to invest $700 million in China over the next three years in education, training and research, and in investments in local companies.
"We appreciate Microsoft's contributions," Mr. Jiang said.
To Chinese Communist officials, it seems, Linux is a useful tool of pragmatic capitalism to pump-prime market competition to China's advantage.
The support of open source software by governments around the world is rising. There are currently 66 government proposals, statements and studies promoting open source software in 25 countries, according to the Initiative for Software Choice. The policy statements and legislative proposals mainly encourage the use of open source software in government procurement, and nearly all of them have cropped up in the last 18 months.
"It's growing, unfortunately, from our perspective," said Mike Wendy, a spokesman for the software initiative, which was founded in May.
The impetus for the international activity was in Europe. A technology advisory group to the European Commission issued a report two years ago that termed open source software "a great opportunity" for the region that could perhaps "change the rules in the information technology industry," wresting the lead in software from the United States and reducing Europe's reliance on imports.
As open source software, especially Linux, has spread, countries in other regions have also come to regard it as both a model of software development and perhaps an engine of economic growth. The government proposals and projects are efforts to position their nations to exploit a promising trend in technology.
Source code is software rendered in a programming language that human programmers can read and understand, before it is compiled down to the digital 1's and 0's that the machine processes. Software companies, like Microsoft, typically guard their source code as a trade secret, and certainly do not allow outsiders to modify or redistribute it.
In the open source model, the source code is freely published for all to see. Then, interested programmers -- often all over the world, communicating over the Internet -- work on a project to fix, modify and add improvements. These self-selected communities work out their own governing arrangements to determine when changes in the code are approved or rejected.
The leading open source projects are Apache, the software most used for distributing Web pages to desktop computers, and the Linux operating system. The kernel, or basic engine, of Linux was initially developed by Linus Torvalds, a Finnish programmer who now works in the United States -- though the operating system itself is a result of work from many contributors, including Richard M. Stallman, who leads a free software project called GNU.
Just how far the open source model can go is uncertain. The projects rely on voluntary contributions from programmers who work at universities, government laboratories and companies. Money is made in the open source environment by supplying technical support, services and writing applications that run on top of the open source software.
Linux has certainly gone a long way already. Though there are versions of Linux that run on desktop PC's, the real success of Linux has been as an operating system on larger data-serving machines, which power computer networks in corporations and governments and the Internet.
The big market for computer server software is also crucial to Microsoft's future. Although the company controls a huge portion of the personal computer operating systems market, to keep growing it must push increasingly into the lucrative market for software that runs corporate and government data centers. It is there that Microsoft encounters what its senior executives have cited as the two most significant competitive threats: I.B.M. and free software, notably Linux.
That combination, in Microsoft's view, could be particularly powerful, especially if open source software emerges as the most politically acceptable technological path.
In Germany, for example, the lower house of Parliament adopted a resolution last November declaring that the government should use open source software "whenever doing so will reduce costs." The resolution also cited as advantages "stability" and "security." Microsoft's Windows operating system is often criticized for crashing too often and for being susceptible to computer viruses and security breaches.
Then in June, the German government and I.B.M. announced a "far-reaching cooperation agreement" to use open source software in national and municipal government agencies. "The fact that Linux provides a true alternative to the Windows operating system," said Otto Schily, the German interior minister, "increases our independence and improves our position as a big customer for software."
The German case, I.B.M. says, is part of an emerging pattern. "There's not a large government in the world we're not talking to," said Steven Solazzo, general manager of I.B.M.'s Linux business.
The Initiative for Software Choice, the Microsoft-supported group, said it has nothing against open source software as such, but that a declared policy favoring one development model is a bias -- a competition based on prejudice instead of the merits of the products.
"All we're looking for is a level playing field competitively," said Peter Houston, a senior strategy executive in Microsoft's Windows group.
As open source software moves out of its incubator of a comparatively small community of devoted software developers and into the commercial mainstream, customers -- in governments and corporations -- will increasingly see its limitations, Mr. Houston said. Windows, he said, has a wide range of tools and technical abilities that Linux does not have in a "comprehensive, integrated, easy-to-use" package.
By contrast, Mr. Houston said, I.B.M. is mainly trying to convert its weakness in the operating-system market to its advantage by making money supplying the software -- the ingredients that an operating system like Linux lacks -- and collecting services revenue for putting it all together.
"I.B.M. is just trying to move the value up the chain from the operating system," Mr. Houston said.
In the end, market competition should determine whether Microsoft or Linux gains the upper hand.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas Elix, head of IBM Global Services, discussing open software at the LinuxWorld conference. The backdrop penguin is the Linux symbol. (I.B.M.)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (61%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; LINUX (COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEM) 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INTEL CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



131 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Court Ties Up Hershey Deal, For Time Being

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
A Pennsylvania judge issued a temporary injunction yesterday to block the possible sale of the Hershey Foods Corporation after the state attorney general argued that a sale would cause "irreparable harm" to the hometown of the candy maker, the nation's largest.
 The decision by Judge Warren G. Morgan further complicates the increasingly controversial auction of Hershey, which has prompted protests from local officials and employees who are worried that a buyer would eliminate jobs and cripple the economy of Hershey, Pa. 
 The Hershey Trust Company, the charitable trust set up by Hershey's founder, Milton Hershey, has a controlling stake in Hershey Foods. The trust filed an appeal late yesterday, according to a spokesman. 
The trust announced in July that it was considering selling its stake in Hershey Foods to diversify the trust's $5.9 billion base of assets and protect the financing for the Milton Hershey School, which educates and shelters nearly 1,300 students. The trust had hoped to solicit a final bid for Hershey before the end of the month.
But Pennsylvania's attorney general, Mike Fisher, has sought to block any sale through the Dauphin County Orphans Court, which oversees charitable trust activities, arguing that court approval should be required for any deal and contending that a sale could devastate the town, where about 6,200 people work for the company.
Despite the temporary restraining order, which prevents a sale until Judge Morgan rules on whether the attorney general or the court has jurisdiction in the matter, most legal experts suggested that the injunction would be overturned. "It's an outrage," said Ken Lefkowitz, a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed in New York, which specializes in mergers and acquisitions. "I'd be very surprised if this decision is not overturned."
Shares of Hershey fell $3.09, or 4 percent, to $72.51 yesterday after having risen as high as $79.49 on speculation of a possible deal.
Nestle and Kraft Foods, a unit of Philip Morris, are considered the front-runners to buy Hershey, though it is unclear whether either company will bid for the candy maker, which analysts think could be sold for more than $10 billion. Cadbury Schweppes is considered a possible bidder for parts of Hershey, or possibly as a bidding partner with Nestle.
Last week, Nestle's chief executive, Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, said that he did not expect that regulators would allow his company to buy all of Hershey without having to divest itself of certain assets.
Mr. Fisher, who is running for re-election, claimed a victory yesterday for at least slowing down the process.
"I am pleased the judge has stopped the sale to give us a chance to raise these issues," he said. "We need to step back and take a hard look at how a sale of Hershey Foods would affect the Hershey community. There is no reason for the trust and its board to rush out and sell this company without allowing me to represent the public's interest and allowing the court to determine how a sale could hurt this community."
Mr. Fisher is hoping he can prevent the sale of Hershey until he can propose legislation that would change laws that govern charitable trusts so that trustees could consider the interests of a community before selling a controlling stake in a for-profit company. Such a change in law could persuade trustees to consider other things beyond simply maximizing the value of the trust's assets.
Jack Stover, a lawyer for the trust, argued in court on Tuesday that Judge Morgan should rule based "on the prevailing law, not the prevailing sentiment." He said that "the attorney general's office has no authority to ask for the temporary injunction."
He also contended that even a temporary injunction preventing a sale could harm the trust's ability to receive a fair price for its stake. The trust controls 31 percent of Hershey Foods stock and 77 percent of the Hershey Foods voting stock.
Lawyers involved in mergers and acquisitions said a delay would not hurt the auction. "If the asset is valuable and the price is right, the buyers will be there," said David Bernstein, a partner at Clifford Chance. "I don't think it's terminal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pennsylvania's attorney general, Mike Fisher, right, and an aide, Sean Connolly, at court on Tuesday, oppose the Hershey sale. (Associated Press)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INJUNCTIONS (89%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); TRENDS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); MERGERS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPEALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%) CANDY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CHOCOLATE 

COMPANY: HERSHEY CO (94%); HUGHES HUBBARD & REED LLP (84%); CADBURY LTD (52%); NESTLE SA (52%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HERSHEY FOODS CORP; HERSHEY TRUST CO 

TICKER: HSY (NYSE) (94%); NESN (SWX) (52%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (94%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS; 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; MORGAN, WARREN G (JUDGE); FISHER, MIKE (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) HERSHEY (PA)

TITLE: ;MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



132 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Interrupt Powell Speech as U.N. Talks End 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Demonstrators jeered Secretary of State Colin L. Powell today to protest the administration's environmental and foreign aid policies as the World Summit on Sustainable Development drew to a close. 
 The 10-day event, involving representatives from more than 100 nations, concluded with sharply mixed reviews from its 40,000 participants, with some warmly praising and others harshly deriding efforts to stem global pollution and relieve poverty. 
 The culmination of the meeting was an "action plan" that set broad timetables for improving sanitation, reducing chemical pollution and protecting endangered species through the coming two decades. 
There were also numerous pledges to protect rain forests, combat AIDS, expand education and ease hunger from an array of foundations, private companies and wealthy nations, including the United States. 
But many participants and observers complained that the talks failed to achieve significant results, with some contending the event was a step backward from the Earth Summit held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. 
In particular, the critics attacked the United States -- along with Canada, Japan and oil-producing states -- for blocking efforts to set firm timetables for reducing oil and gas consumption. 
"On climate change, they took a major step back from the Rio agreements 10 years ago," said Phil Clapp, president of National Environmental Trust. The Bush administration, he added, was part of "an axis of oil." 
The Johannesburg plan calls on nations to reduce by half the proportion of poor people who lack sanitation by 2015, to minimize health and environmental problems caused by chemical pollution by 2020 and to reduce significantly the number of endangered species by 2010. 
Secretary Powell, during his only day at the talks, endured the brunt of the criticism, having his 10-minute speech to the delegates interrupted twice by hecklers who chanted, "Shame on Bush." Several of the two dozen protesters, many of them Americans, were escorted from the hall so that he could resume his address. 
There were also murmurs of protest inside the hall when Secretary Powell attacked Zimbabwe's government for rights abuses and criticized southern African countries for refusing American genetically engineered corn to help allay famine. Some European governments have raised health concerns about genetically altered grains, but the Bush administration contends the corn is safe. 
Secretary Powell used his speech to promote the administration's philosophy on foreign aid, which demands that developing nations end corruption, open their borders to trade and improve services in exchange for assistance. The program will increase foreign aid by 50 percent, to $15 billion a year, in three years, Secretary Powell said. 
"Official development aid alone is not enough," he said. Then, repeating the mantra of the Bush administration, he added, "Trade is the engine of development." 
The administration has also encouraged partnerships between governments and the private sector to underwrite environmental and poverty programs overseas. The secretary praised two partnerships today: one with Japan, to increase access to clean water, and another involving conservation groups and industrialized nations, to protect rain forests in the Congo River basin. 
"Essential to this approach is the realization that sustainable development is too big for any government alone," Secretary Powell said at an event for the Congo Basin partnership. 
The Bush administration's approach to foreign aid, and the development meeting generally, has pleased American conservatives, who had urged Mr. Bush to avoid the event. But environmental groups raised concerns about recruiting private corporations to help finance environmental programs. 
"The corporate fox cannot continue to oversee the planet and people's health and the ecological sustainability of this world," said Michael Dorsey, a director of the Sierra Club. "Partnerships, especially corporate partnerships, must be subject to an international framework of binding accountability." 
In a news conference today, Secretary Powell called the talks a success, asserting that those taking part had articulated a "shared vision" for improving the planet. 
But even some of the organizers and most active promoters could muster only tepid praise. 
"Johannesburg is less visionary and more workmanlike, reflecting perhaps a feeling among many nations that they no longer want to promise the earth and fail, that they would rather step forward than run too fast," said Klaus Toepfer, executive director of the United Nations Environment Program. 
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, put it this way: "Obviously, this is not Rio."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hecklers were removed yesterday during a speech by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at the World Summit on Sustainable Development. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); TRENDS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); FAMINE (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); RIOTS (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (69%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); BUDGETS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ENVIRONMENT; WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); DAO, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%) EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); AFRICA (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



133 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Subway Service to Resume On Routes Closed After 9/11 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Subway service on lines serving Brooklyn, the West Side of Manhattan and the Bronx will return to normal for the first time in a year on Sept. 15, when three of the four subway stations closed since the World Trade Center attack are to reopen, city and state officials said yesterday.
 On the 1, 2, 3 and 9 lines, where three closed stations have caused service to be partly suspended or rerouted since Sept. 11, nearly all subway service will be restored to its pre-Sept. 11 routes. 
 The 1 and 9 trains will bypass the Cortlandt Street station but will once again stop at Rector Street and South Ferry. In addition, No. 3 trains will again run between New Lots Avenue in Brooklyn and 148th Street in Manhattan, and No. 2 trains will run on express tracks through Manhattan. 
On the N and R lines, the Cortlandt Street station will also reopen. It has been out of service since the attack.
The restoration of subway service was announced yesterday at a City Hall news conference on the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan. At the briefing, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki also announced a new Web site for Lower Manhattan, www.lowermanhattan .info, where features including transit schedules, rebuilding plans and recreational offerings will be posted and regularly updated.
The mayor and the governor also spoke yesterday of their desire to see more housing in Lower Manhattan, including housing set aside for low-income and moderate-income families.
After the news conference, officials said the city and the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation would soon begin to assess the housing needs for Lower Manhattan and study how best to pay for the development of residential projects. Mr. Pataki said he had asked the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to consider using some of its federal Community Development Block Grant financing to create housing for low-income and moderate-income families. The state and the city also control $1.5 billion in federal Liberty Bonds for use on new housing developments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (87%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TERRORISM (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); FAMILY (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); WEB SITES (51%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



134 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Here's to Working Less, and Living More 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Why Americans Should Rest" (Op-Ed, Sept. 2), Juliet Schor describes the phenomenon of the overworked American and how the combination of Sept. 11, the economy and corporate scandals may make this a perfect time to re-evaluate our workaholic work ethic. 
 This is indeed true, and what it will require is a paradigm shift. 
Employees need to demand more time away from work as a priority factor to staying with an employer. 
Employers need to buy in to the concept that more vacation time is a prerequisite to a productive work force.
There is already a framework for this type of change. A decade ago, employees demanded child care at work as a prerequisite to working after having children. Employers realized that the only way to keep trained, productive employees was to offer child care. Everyone benefited, and they will again. 

LINDA KUPFER
Rockville, Md., Sept. 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHICS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (56%); SCANDALS (56%) LABOR; WORKING HOURS 

PERSON: KUPFER, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



135 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Belgium: Brewer's Profit Down 

BYLINE:  By Paul Meller (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Poor weather in Europe and logistical problems in the United States and Russia hit first-half earnings at the Belgian brewer Interbrew, the company said. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization fell 12 percent, compared with the first six months of 2001. 
A legal dispute with the Mexican drinks distributor Fomento Economico Mexicano has held up the integration of the recently acquired German beer Beck into Interbrew's brand lineup in the United States. Meanwhile, the Belgian company's Russian brewer Sun has lost market share by failing to switch to plastic bottles from its unpopular glass ones quickly enough. The chief executive, Hugo Powell, said that apart from these problems the first-half results were pleasing. Second-half results will suffer from the continued poor weather in Europe, he said. Brewing operations in the Czech Republic were halted by the severe flooding in August. He said it was too early to estimate the impact of the floods on sales. Paul Meller (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EBITDA (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); BEER & ALE (88%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (87%); MARKET SHARE (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (65%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (54%); EXECUTIVES (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERBREW SA 

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGIUM (94%); EUROPE (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); CZECH REPUBLIC (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



136 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Financing Ends Some Doubts About Qwest 

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Clearing away concerns that it could be forced into bankruptcy before the end of the year, Qwest Communications International announced arrangements yesterday with bankers to borrow $750 million and extend by two years a $3.39 billion credit line that was scheduled to expire next May.
 As expected, Qwest's lenders also relaxed requirements on how profitable Qwest has to be each quarter to avoid a default on the credit line. 
 The $750 million loan was obtained by QwestDex, the company's phone directory subsidiary, and must be repaid when Qwest completes its previously announced deal to sell QwestDex for $7.05 billion to a group of financiers. 
"Coupled with the pending sale of QwestDex, these actions announced today and the cash flow from our operations should provide us with enough funding for the next several years and put any liquidity concerns behind us," Oren Shaffer, Qwest's vice chairman and chief financial officer, said in a written statement.
Qwest is the dominant local phone carrier in 14 Western states and a provider of long-distance phone and data services in other regions. Some skeptics warned yesterday that none of the maneuvering addressed Qwest's long-term chances of dealing with its $26.3 billion debt load.
"This is a short-term reprieve," said Scott Cleland, an analyst at the Precursor Group in Washington. "It just means they'll be weaker when they do go into bankruptcy."
In addition to its financial woes, Qwest faces criminal and regulatory investigations of its accounting. Analysts say it will need favorable settlements, cost-cutting, more asset sales and a strong rebound in business to avoid bankruptcy.
Qwest is paying a stiff premium of 3.5 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, above the Libor rate, an international benchmark interest rate, to extend its credit line and relax covenants that set requirements for minimum earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization, or Ebitda.
Those covenants required Qwest to earn enough that debts did not exceed 4.25 times Ebitda in the current quarter or 4 times Ebitda by the end of the year. With its business deteriorating, Qwest had warned that it might violate the covenants this quarter and, at any rate, most analysts had assumed the tougher year-end requirement was out of reach.
The agreements announced today allow debts to rise to a maximum of six times Ebitda. But the banks took steps to minimize their exposure in extending the credit line. It must be paid down to $2 billion when the first part of the QwestDex sale is completed, which is expected before the end of this year. It must be reduced to $1.25 billion when the second phase of the sale closes, which will be next year if all goes smoothly.
Qwest's battered stock and bonds had been strengthening recently in anticipation of the agreements, which were announced after the markets closed yesterday. Qwest's shares closed at $3.60, up 34 cents, or 10.4 percent yesterday. They rose as high as $3.89 in after-hours trading.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EBITDA (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); CASH FLOW (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); ACCOUNTING (69%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (52%) CREDIT; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; DIRECTORIES; BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CENTURYLINK INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: QWEST COMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL INC; CARLYLE GROUP; WELSH CARSON ANDERSON & STOWE 

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



137 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: As Schools Open in New York, Mayor Sits Front and Center 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
More than a million New York City students will return today to a school system now in the hands of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and a chancellor who serves at his pleasure, with new and potentially powerful tools to bring about change.
 The biggest cloud looming over the system is Mr. Bloomberg's plan to cut $378 million from the schools budget of nearly $12 billion, starting with $100 million this month. But Mr. Bloomberg and Joel I. Klein, the new chancellor, have promised that the cuts will not affect instruction and other student services, saying they will come from the central and district administrative budgets. 
 Mr. Klein submitted a list of proposed cuts to City Hall yesterday, and though it was not made public, several officials said the cuts did not appear to affect classrooms. In fact, the officials said, the initial cuts might be closer to $65 million because of unanticipated savings from the summer school program, among other things.
"Student-related services are being kept sacrosanct," said Steven Sanders, chairman of the State Assembly's education committee. "There is a very clear directive that is going out from the chancellor to the superintendents that no cuts of any kind can be realized from those areas."
Mr. Bloomberg clearly has more of an interest than previous mayors in protecting classroom budgets, because schools are now his responsibility and he has asked that his term as mayor be judged by how much they improve.
But like many of his predecessors, Mr. Bloomberg has complained bitterly about administrative waste in the school system. He and Mr. Klein are expected to study the system's budget intensely this year in hopes of pinpointing needless spending.
Budget worries aside, the school year is starting on an unusually calm note, in part because of a contract agreement that raised teacher salaries as much as 22 percent. The raises, combined with the flagging economy, prompted thousands of state-certified teachers to apply for jobs here, easing a teacher shortage that made for chaotic school openings in recent years.
In exchange for raises, the city's 80,000 teachers have agreed to work 100 extra minutes a week, devoting half of that time to training and half to working with students. As a result, the school day will start 20 minutes earlier this year, a change that the Education Department was trying to communicate to parents until the last minute yesterday with automated phone calls and public service announcements.
Mr. Bloomberg would have preferred that all the extra time be used for instruction, but even under the compromise he reached with the teachers' union, students should be in class for the equivalent of four extra days a year.
In another change, the Justice Department has approved a plan to strip community school boards of their role in hiring the superintendents who oversee instruction in the city's 32 school districts. Mr. Bloomberg got the Legislature to sign off on the change in June, saying that if he controlled the school system, he and his chancellor should have the sole power to hire and fire superintendents. Until now, the chancellor had to choose from lists submitted by the local boards, which have been criticized as politically motivated and sometimes corrupt.
Mr. Klein used his new power for the first time yesterday, appointing a superintendent for Harlem's District 5. Although the local school board had recommended several candidates, Mr. Klein chose someone else: Dennis Pradier, a deputy superintendent in the chancellor's district of low-performing schools.
Mr. Klein has not set an instructional agenda, though he said in a meeting with reporters on Tuesday that his tenure should be judged by "what I do in terms of performance of students in the schools." 
His deputy for teaching and learning, Diana Lam, will not start for a few weeks, as she is wrapping up business in Providence, R.I., where she has been the schools superintendent since 1999. Schools in Providence and San Antonio, where Ms. Lam worked in the early 1990's, improved under her tenure, and she will be under pressure to raise test scores here. Mr. Klein clearly has faith in her abilities: he is paying her $250,000 a year, $82,000 more than his other deputies and as much as Mr. Klein himself is earning.

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THE CITY -- Lynn Handelman, a second-grade teacher at P.S. 234 in Manhattan, making last-minute preparations for the first day of classes. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); IN THE SUBURBS -- Jonah Cerbin needed a hug from his father, Bob, as he started kindergarten yesterday at the Hillside School in Hastings, N.Y. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CITIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); APPROVALS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); TEACHER UNIONS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (62%); LABOR SHORTAGES (61%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) GOODNOUGH, ABBY; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); KLEIN, JOEL I (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



138 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1874 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: PERSPECTIVES/Gerhard Schroder; 
'No One Has a Clear Idea About What the Effects Would Be'

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HANOVER, Germany, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from an interview with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, reflecting on events since Sept. 11. The interview was conducted in German and translated by The New York Times. 

Q Did Sept. 11 really change the world, or is that just an American way of looking at it?

A First of all, it is understandable that the reaction in America, which for the first time was attacked on its own territory, was more intense than in the rest of the world. But it was also interesting for me to observe how much it affected the Germans, for example, and others as well. The large demonstration in Berlin by 200,000 or 300,000 people was in fact a spontaneous expression of sympathy and solidarity. And I also experienced it much closer to home -- if I may be permitted to say so -- since my wife had once lived not far away, on the Upper West Side. . . .
 I believe it not only changed America, but also the world, in two ways: first, it was astounding how fast and how impressively this international coalition came into being. One said that the offer of support was a self-evident duty as a friend. And Germany agreed to break with tradition in deploying military forces outside Europe. 
But that is only one side of it. I think the other side is that changes have taken place because the analysis of the threat had to be changed. That is to say, in the past, countries or alliances felt themselves threatened by other countries or alliances. That was, after all, the classic confrontation in the cold war. What happened in New York and Washington -- this attack on the two cities and on the people in them -- has shown that there is a privatized form of war, waged by terrorist organizations, and that we have to defend ourselves against this using appropriate means, including military means.
So I believe two things have changed. First there is the question: who is threatening the civilized world? Not only countries, but also forms of privatized violence that never used to exist in this form. And the second remarkable thing is the unity at the United Nations, rallying an international coalition against terror. It is important to keep the awareness of both alive. . . . 
I asked myself why the attack on New York affected so many people in the world in such a special way. I think the answer has to do with the special importance that this city has always had for all those who were forced to or wanted to leave their own country. New York is thus a symbol of asylum. This was very much the case during the Nazi period in Germany. . . .

Q Your new defense minister, Peter Struck, said there was no threat to Germany from Saddam Hussein, and Condi Rice, of course, said the whole world was threatened.

A I think the truth lies somewhere in the middle. There is no question that dictators represent a threat. And the crucial question is: what can they do and what would they like to do to realize their threats? The problem with Saddam is making up our minds what scope for political and military action he has. Politically, he has none, unless one forces the Arab world into solidarity with him. Militarily, I believe it is hard to judge.
In my view, the threat may be overestimated by people like Ms. Rice, and underestimated by others. That is why I was one of those who were disappointed that a change of objectives took place as regards the treatment of Saddam Hussein. I think that we -- all of us, together -- had isolated him politically, and that there was a real opportunity of using diplomatic and economic pressure to get the inspectors admitted to the country again. The moment the debate in the United States put an end to the objective of exerting every possible kind of pressure to get the inspectors readmitted to the country so that we could discover what the real situation was, and not have to rely on surmises or intelligence reports -- the moment this objective was changed, the real problem began. 
How can you exert pressure on someone by saying to them: Even if you accede to our demands, we will destroy you? I think that was a change of strategy in the United States -- whatever the explanation may be -- a change that made things difficult for others, including ourselves.
That is one thing. The other thing is consultations. In the past it was always said: Before we do anything, we will consult with our principal allies -- at least with those who take an active, very active part in the fight against international terrorism. But consultation cannot mean that I get a phone call two hours in advance only to be told, "We're going in." Consultation among grown-up nations has to mean not just consultation about the how and the when, but also about the whether.

Q Do you believe that Cheney speaks for President Bush?

A I am not qualified to say. The problem is that he has or seems to have committed himself so strongly that it is hard to imagine how he can climb down. And that is the real problem, that not only I have, but that all of us in Europe have. I think that a mistake has been made. It may be understandable in terms of domestic politics, but it has, of course, made things much more difficult for all those who were in agreement with the original objective of exerting pressure to have the inspectors admitted to the country.
After Sept. 11, the situation was quite different. We were among those whose military participation was likely to be requested, and we were all agreed there would be military action. And in that situation, where there is a need for secrecy, for the element of surprise, it is enough to be notified of the start of the operation just ahead of CNN or The New York Times. 
The essential point is that everyone agrees on the question of whether something is going to happen. If we agree about that, we can then form different opinions, so to speak, about questions of when and how. That is the vital difference from Sept. 11. It was because I was inwardly convinced and had also been consulted that I said at the time: This thing has to be done, and I am going to force it through even if I have to call a vote of confidence, for the situation was not easy in Germany, especially with that coalition. 
And that is why it is just not good enough if I learn from the American press about a speech which clearly states: We are going to do it, no matter what the world or our allies think. That is no way to treat others.
But there is another question that must be answered. According to my information, no one has a really clear idea of the political order that would follow in the Middle East. And such an idea is needed. No one has a clear idea about what the effects would be in the moderate Arab countries or what new political order might emerge after a military intervention in Iraq. 
What I find particularly worrying, incidentally, is that there is so little discussion of the economic consequences for the world economy. . . . 
There is another point I consider important. Germany is at present, after the United States, the second-largest provider of troops for international missions. We have almost 10,000 soldiers in the Balkans, involved in Enduring Freedom, and in Afghanistan. In 1998 we spent 170 million euros on international missions. This year it will be around 2 billion euros. I only mention this to make clear that no one can criticize us for lacking international solidarity. That is the one thing.
The other thing is that I was in Kabul and took a very close look at the situation. Germany is contributing a great deal to the international security force, perhaps more than any other country. I don't want to be unjust to the others, but I think this estimate is not far out. My concern is that we have not even begun to achieve in Afghanistan anything that could be called nation-building. Yet if that is not succeeding before the eyes of the whole world, what advantage are the masses in the third world going to see in the restoration of a country to the civilized world? 
What I mean to say is, we have to prove that a return to the civilized community of nations brings a prosperity dividend. And many people are watching what is happening in Afghanistan. We are deeply committed there, and that is why I say: Before we have made any progress there, before we have proved to the disenfranchised masses in the third world that it is worth their while to return to the Western fold, to the civilized world, I would say that military interventions -- in whatever terms they may be justified -- tend to be counterproductive for the international coalition against terror.

Q I first understood you to say, no unilateral action in Iraq. Then later you seemed to say Germany will not participate in an attack or help pay for one no matter what the U.N. says. Which is it?

A Let me begin by saying that without a U.N. Security Council mandate, our Constitution would not permit any form of participation. That is quite clear.
But the other arguments that I have cited against an intervention are so important that I would also be against such an intervention if -- for whatever reasons and in whatever form -- the Security Council of the United Nations were to say "Yes," which I cannot imagine happening in the present situation. 
I have attempted to make clear that it is not just formal considerations that induce me to say that this is the wrong way. I have told you about what harm we would do to the international coalition against terror. I have attempted to make clear that we must prove before the eyes of the world, in Afghanistan and elsewhere, that participation in the struggle against terror will also bring a peace dividend, and I know of no one who has a real concept for a new order in the Middle East which could shape the region afterward. These are for me weighty arguments that lead me to say: Of course it is important for Germany what resolutions the United Nations adopt, but these arguments -- these three -- they remain my own, the ones that make me say: Hands off. Especially because, as I said before, the evidence appears to be highly dubious. . . .

Q This administration is making lots of difficulties for its friends. Do you think that Sept. 11 has changed America in a way that isn't a good way?

A . . . I would like to answer that question with another: what is the duty of a friend in such a situation? It is the duty of friends to show solidarity, but also to use this tried and true solidarity to bring rational arguments into the political debate. The duty of friends is not just to agree with everything, but to say: We disagree on this point. . . .

Q The nasty view is, you're in a tough campaign and you want to run against Bush, against America, for "peace," and change the subject from unemployment.

A . . . I would never treat this issue as a matter of tactics, because the consequences would catch up with me later. We will win in Germany, and then I will have to stick by this decision, and I know what that means. In this sense it was not a tactical variant in the election campaign. . . .

ON THE WEB
This interview is the second of a series in which national and world figures reflect on the terrorist attacks and their effect on a year of public life and policy. The articles and full interviews are online at nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Victor Homola for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PRIVATIZATION (86%); COLD WAR (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HIJACKING (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (65%) TERRORISM; SURVEYS AND SERIES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) GERMANY; IRAQ; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



139 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: China's Leader Won't Hold On, Anonymous Author Says 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Despite rampant speculation to the contrary, a new account of Beijing's secretive politics says that China's leader, Jiang Zemin, has decided to give up all of his top posts and that the country will have its first orderly political succession over the coming six months. 
 According to the account, which claims to draw on high-level insider documents and discussions, an intense campaign this year promoting Mr. Jiang's "theory" of a modernized Communism embracing capitalists, interpreted by many analysts as an attempt by Mr. Jiang to cling to power, is intended to give him an honorable retirement and secure his legacy. 
 The account, by an anonymous Chinese author, is being published in the United States. It has been scrutinized by a leading American expert on Chinese politics, Andrew J. Nathan of Columbia University, who calls it highly credible, though impossible to verify fully. 
The unusually detailed account of maneuvers inside the "black box" of Beijing politics comes from a Chinese man who has lived for several years in the United States and who says that well-placed insiders gave him the party's secret dossiers, evaluating dozens of candidates for leading positions. 
He says he has maintained contact with his party sources during recent weeks as final preparations are made for the 16th Communist Party Congress on Nov. 8, and offers a precise and consistent view of the jostling at the top.
Under the pseudonym of Zong Hairen -- he fears reprisals against himself or his sources -- he has combined excerpts from the personnel reports with his account of insider maneuvers in a Chinese-language book called "Disidai," or "The Fourth Generation," to be published this fall by the New York-based Mirror Books.
The report says that trial balloons this year suggesting that Mr. Jiang, 76, should retain one or more of his top offices failed to win the support of other senior leaders. It says Mr. Jiang will step down as Communist Party chief in November and as China's president next March, handing power to the 59-year-old heir apparent, Hu Jintao.
The report asserts that Mr. Jiang's advisers have convinced him that in the interests of party unity and his own legacy he must also sign over to Mr. Hu his third title, chairman of the Central Military Commission. 
That transfer, the report says, is to take place during the meeting of Parliament next March, and Mr. Jiang is unlikely to wield major informal power in the years that follow, contradicting a common view here that Mr. Jiang is angling to keep the military title to prolong his influence.
While the new account offers what some say is a credible account of recent politics, it is unlikely to convince all the experts, who have expressed widely varied interpretations of Mr. Jiang's intentions.
Just today, the Communist Party departments of organization and propaganda issued a major notice to all party units throughout the country, instructing members to carefully study a new book of Mr. Jiang's writings, the official New China News Agency reported.
This campaign may, as the anonymous book author suggests, be preparing the ground for Mr. Jiang's smooth retirement. But some experts here think it signifies Mr. Jiang's muscle and his intent to remain an assertive player.
The author provides startling and previously unreported details of the Machiavellian struggle for power in the period since 1989, when Mr. Jiang was installed as party leader after the trauma of the bloody Tiananmen Square crackdown.
He asserts that for a time in 1992, Deng Xiaoping, then China's de facto leader, discussed toppling Mr. Jiang and Prime Minister Li Peng for their failure to press China's economic opening, which Deng saw as vital. 
According to that account, Deng even briefly bruited the notion of restoring Zhao Ziyang to senior office. Mr. Zhao was deposed as party chief in 1989 because he showed too much sympathy for the democracy protests at Tiananmen Square.
The dismissals were sidetracked, the author says, by Mr. Jiang's masterly aide, Zeng Qinghong, who helped Mr. Jiang jump belatedly onto the "reform" bandwagon and convinced Deng that a greater threat lay in the accumulating power of two related army generals, who were later purged. Mr. Zhao remains defiant and under house arrest today.
An English-language description of the "Zong" book and his version of political developments has been prepared by Mr. Nathan and by Bruce Gilley, a journalist and biographer of Mr. Jiang. Their version will be published this fall as "China's New Rulers: The Inside Files," by The New York Review of Books Press. Excerpts are being published in forthcoming issues of The New York Review of Books.
In an interview, Mr. Nathan acknowledged that many assertions could not be independently verified.
But he said that the anonymous writer's track record of informed articles and an earlier book, the rich and plausible detail of the new report and extensive discussions had convinced him and Mr. Gilley that the documents and the author's high-level access were genuine.
Mr. Nathan played a similar role early last year as an editor of "The Tiananmen Papers" (Public Affairs), described as a collection of internal documents surrounding the 1989 crackdown and compiled by a different pseudonymous Chinese author.
Mr. Nathan said he remained puzzled by the motives of the insiders who leaked the secret documents to the author. The materials -- describing the work records, climb to power and excerpts from internal speeches of Politburo candidates -- did not seem to convey any political agenda on the part of the leakers, who were taking a severe risk.
The anonymous author, through whom all the information has in effect been filtered, has in previous works shown a strong dislike for Mr. Jiang and Mr. Li but appears intent in the new book to describe the talents as well as policy leanings of the coming generation of leaders.
The account portrays China's next leaders as highly competent men who have advanced largely on merit and are "determined modernizers, intent on integrating China's economy with the world and on maintaining good relations with the United States," according to an advance copy of The New York Review of Books.
At the same time, Mr. Nathan and Mr. Gilley write, "This is a group of men who believe in authoritarian rule as a precondition for pushing their country through the turbulent passage to modernization."
According to the Chinese author's account, the future membership of the Politburo standing committee was largely determined months ago or earlier. The standing committee, which runs the party and the country, now includes seven men, most of whom are to retire because they are older than 70.
Mr. Hu will rank first, followed by Li Ruihan, 68, who is also to become the head of Parliament. Wen Jiabao, 60, will be named prime minister as well as a standing committee member. Others on the committee will include Wu Bangguo, who is now a deputy prime minister; Luo Gan, the hard-line director of law and security, and Mr. Zeng, the Jiang protege and party organizer.
Still undetermined in recent weeks, the author says, is whether one, two or three other men will join the standing committee, possibly including an under-50 leader like the governor of Fujian or Henan Province.
The report describes Mr. Zeng's skillful role in building Mr. Jiang's power. Mr. Zeng is credited with engineering the purge of Jiang rivals over the last decade, including the former Beijing party secretary Chen Xitong, who was jailed for corruption, and Qiao Shi, the Parliament leader who was eased out in a surprise move in 1997.
Many experts have described Mr. Zeng as a proxy for Mr. Jiang, but the author says Mr. Zeng appears ready to take his own place. He is reported as personally urging Mr. Jiang to retire now, arguing that an effort to hold office would open a Pandora's box as other aged leaders asserted themselves.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jiang Zemin, top left, seen with Vice Premier Wen Jiabao, is expected to turn over China's presidency and Communist Party leadership to Hu Jintao, above, now the vice president, within six months. (Agence France-Presse); (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LITERATURE (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%); WEN JIABAO (58%) ECKHOLM, ERIK; JIANG ZEMIN; HU JINTAO (VICE PRES); ZONG HAIREN (PSEUDONYM); NATHAN, ANDREW J 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) CHINA

TITLE: DISIDAI (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



140 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Devotion to free-market, laissez-faire dogma makes for ineffectual policy.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick, who teaches at Cooper Union, is the editor of Challenge Magazine and of a new journal of social health, Indicators. His new book, "Why Economies Grow," will be published by Basic Books in October. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
IN a widely cited speech in Jackson Hole, Wyo., last week, Alan Greenspan tried to defend his failure to tame the 1990's stock market bubble. The Federal Reserve chairman said raising interest rates would have caused too much damage to the economy. He said raising margin requirements would not have mattered, although senior Wall Street hands like the economist and consultant Henry Kaufman had long urged him to do so.
 But most telling, Mr. Greenspan said Fed officials could not know when stocks were too high. Maybe the market, even when violating all sorts of historical precedents, was just right. 
 Such thinking is all too representative of the undue faith in the magic of markets that characterizes today's policy making. 
Mr. Greenspan was quick to help the market when it was too low. During the Asian financial crisis in 1997, the fear that the financial system might collapse weighed heavily in his decision to cut rates sharply. 
But when stocks were in a bubble and the political pressure was to keep the good times rolling, he consistently retreated to his deepest belief that the markets were basically efficient and should not be interfered with. A few economists have even asserted that stock bubbles are entirely rational. 
A highly respected mainstream economist has issued one of the strongest criticisms yet of such thinking. George Akerlof, a professor at the University of California at Berkeley, won the 2001 Nobel in economic science, with Joseph Stiglitz and Michael Spence.
In his Nobel acceptance speech, reprinted in the June issue of The American Economic Review, Mr. Akerlof uses behavioral economics to criticize oversimplified laissez-faire theories. 
Such theories depend greatly on one assumption: that buyers and sellers are rational and seek to maximize their own incomes and profits. These economists, perhaps best represented by the work of the so-called new classical economists, whose home base is the University of Chicago, conclude that stocks are almost always sensibly priced. They also conclude that unemployment cannot be reduced without creating inflation, people save enough on their own, regulations that limit the international flow of capital are anathema, and even monetary policy has little or no consequence.
Mr. Akerlof argues, however, that market bubbles can exist and should be kept under control; that unemployment can often be pushed lower by government without generating inflation; that people will not save enough on their own; and that liberalized global capital flows have been damaging. He argues that monetary and fiscal policies do matter in creating jobs and raising incomes.
The starting point for Mr. Akerlof and his colleagues is to make the central assumption of economics realistic. People are often not rational, maybe even most of the time. Consider investors in stocks. Keynes implied long ago in his "General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money," Mr. Akerlof notes, that investors are subject to fads and fashions.
Behavioral economists have developed a lot of evidence to support this idea. For example, Robert Shiller of Yale has carefully shown that stock prices are much more volatile than corporate profits and dividends. 
An important conclusion is that when stock prices are historically far out of line with profits, there is a good chance that it is a bubble, not a "new economy" of ever-higher profits, as Mr. Greenspan often suggested in the 1990's.
Similarly, new classical economists argue that markets are so efficient that unemployment is largely voluntary. For the most part, they say, people who are out of work can find jobs if they are willing to work for less. Government cannot really help them.
Mr. Akerlof argues that in real life, businesses often pay more than the market wage to retain good workers, bolster morale or create incentives to work harder. Thus, jobs are actually rationed, and many job seekers are shut out.
Mr. Akerlof argues that behavioral economics also casts doubt on the related assertion that there is a unique natural rate of unemployment. If policy makers push the jobless rate lower, the argument is that inflation will inevitably accelerate. Mr. Akerlof believes that when one considers the way people really act, this is just plain wrong. As Keynes asserted, monetary and fiscal stimulus can produce more jobs and higher incomes that will not be undermined by higher inflation.
As for savings, much economic theory argues that people save rationally over their lifetimes for retirement. But behavioral economists show that people systematically procrastinate -- they spend today and plan to save tomorrow.
This may seem obvious. But consider how far Social Security privatization has gotten, based largely on the new classical view of rational human behavior. Proponents argue that if people are deprived of Social Security as a safety net, almost all of them will save adequately for retirement, no matter their level of income. There is no basis in human observation or economic history for this conclusion. For many people, especially with lower incomes, saving is very difficult. 
The strength of behavioral economics is that it is based largely on actual observation of human behavior, not pure theory. "In the spirit of Keynes," Mr. Akerlof writes, "behavioral macroeconomists are rebuilding the microfoundations that were sacked by the new classical economists."
To be fair, economists from other schools of thought, including post-Keynesians, structural economists and gender economists, have tried to explain the same observations with other interesting theories, and they deserve more of a hearing.
But Mr. Akerlof and his colleagues have attacked today's conventional wisdom, which dominates the halls of power, on the basis of its own assumptions and values. Mr. Akerlof's side, I believe, is winning this battle of ideas. The battle for power may be another matter. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nasdaq MarketSite in New York on a wild day in April 2000. The conventional wisdom among policy makers seems to be that markets should not be tampered with. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BONDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%) ECONOMICS; STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) MADRICK, JEFF; AKERLOF, GEORGE A 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) WYOMING, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



141 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: As Deadline Nears, Congress Slogs in a Fiscal Quagmire 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Senator Robert C. Byrd, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, says he cannot quite explain it. The House is tied in knots as well.
 Less than a month before an Oct. 1 deadline, Congress has passed exactly zero of the 13 required spending bills. The Senate, for the first time in years, has not even adopted a budget. Lawmakers blame one another and the White House, while the White House holds Congress accountable. 
 Combined with an intensely politicized climate on Capitol Hill, the fiscal failures are adding up to what one aide described as a "train wreck" that has the potential to throw Congress and the executive branch into turmoil for months.
"It is probably as bad as I have ever seen it," said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, about the state of Congressional spending and budget affairs.
No one is talking about a reprise of the government shutdown of 1995, but if factions in Congress cannot bridge differences between themselves and the White House over spending priorities, federal agencies are very likely to be held hostage to a series of stop-gap spending bills. Without a budget and the rules that go with it, the door could be opened to a flurry of sticky Senate legislative fights.
Some lawmakers say the press of urgent business, including legislation relating to the terrorist attacks and corporate accountability, have left them little time to deal with the annual spending bills that finance the government.
The debate is occurring after the Congressional Budget Office last week predicted that the government, faced with a stagnant economy and the need to absorb the costs of a fight against terrorism and last year's tax cuts, will run large deficits through 2005. But at the center of the current stalemate is a difference of $9 billion to $13 billion in spending out of a total of more than $750 billion.
To the administration, that is an amount worth contesting on the grounds it will contribute to spiraling spending in coming years. "Just that $9 billion to $13 billion compounds to $200 billion over 10 years," said Amy Call, a spokeswoman for the Office of Management and Budget.
But to Democrats and even some Republicans on Capitol Hill, the amount is evidence that the battle is more about politics, as the Bush administration, worried about a return to deficits on its watch, tries to show it can get tough on spending.
"He is trying to find some high ground on spending when the differences are trivial," said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, the chairman of the Budget Committee, referring to the president. "We have gone from massive surpluses to massive deficits, and he wants to have some way to say it is not his fault."
The budget picture grew even more complicated today when the White House proposed about $1 billion in new spending on AIDS initiatives, airport security and Middle East relief, reviving part of a $5 billion package the president blocked last month. House Appropriations Committee members said they would have to accommodate that and some other new spending sought by the White House within already constrained limits.
"They go out and give a speech and slap us around while they are quietly sending up these requests," said one Republican staff member on the House appropriations panel. "It is a tad frustrating."
Senate Republican leaders attribute the backlog to failure by Democratic leaders to get serious about appropriations measures earlier in the summer and the inability to get a budget passed.
"I think we should have focused on appropriations bills back in May or June, like I tried to," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the minority leader. Congress rarely adopts all its spending bills by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30, but experts on Capitol Hill say it has been quite a while since it was in this predicament. The House has passed five appropriations measures, the Senate three. None have been reconciled in House-Senate negotiations.
In an effort to speed things up, the Senate today began interspersing appropriations bills with its continuing debate over the homeland security department, bringing the Interior Department bill to the floor. But scant progress was made. The House Appropriations Committee is expected to consider two bills this week, one of them in subcommittee.
The slow pace already has some suggesting that Congress might take care of most of its spending matters in a large bill known as a continuing resolution that would maintain spending at current levels unless a spending bill has been passed. The continuing resolution could last until a lame-duck session after the elections in November or into next year.
But any delay also brings politics back into the equation since control of Congress could change with the November results, perhaps putting Democrats in control in the House or Republicans in the Senate.
Mr. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, said he was not yet ready to call for a continuing resolution. "I don't want that," he said. "We have a month here." He also accused the president of playing politics with the spending process. "I think we ought to quit the kid's stuff and work together," he said. 
In the House, the appropriations process is also squeezed between conservative Republicans trying to reduce spending and Democrats and moderate Republicans who favor increases in some areas. 
The House adopted a budget figure of $759 billion for the fiscal year 2002-2003, which starts on Oct. 1. While the Senate has not adopted a budget plan, it is using a target of $768 billion. The White House says the figure is actually $772 billion. Mr. Conrad, who fell one vote short earlier this summer in trying to get a budget plan adopted, says he believes he can still pass one before the start of the fiscal year. 
If not, budget rules that require 60 votes for some tax and spending measures would disappear. Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, has already said he might try again to eliminate the estate tax, which drew 54 votes earlier this year but not the 60 required at the time.
"We have to do something," said a Senate aide, worried about the implications of not passing a budget.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Senate has not formally adopted a budget for next year, but Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the Budget Committee chairman, says he believes that one can still pass before Oct. 1, the start of the fiscal year. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROPRIATIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); WAR ON TERROR (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); AVIATION SECURITY (65%); AIDS POLICY (60%); AIRPORTS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (74%); KENT CONRAD (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%) HULSE, CARL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



142 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3244 words

HEADLINE: Busy Being an Icon, Giuliani Keeps Political Future Alive 

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
A horse farm in Goshen, Ky. -- 700 acres of bluegrass and thoroughbreds, interrupted by a swimming pool, a bathhouse and a stately 19th-century home -- that kind of horse farm. And here is Rudy Giuliani of New York on a torrid summer day in his customary suit and tie, his shoulders in that heavy slump, clapping the shoulders and shaking the hands of 200 people who have donated up to $15,000 a couple to the Kentucky Republican Party to meet him.
 When he speaks he begins with his familiar Godfather imitation, draws a few quizzical looks when he refers to HBO's Tony Soprano, shares his secret of leadership ("You have to know what you believe"). Truth be known, Mr. Giuliani, ending a 14-hour swing through two Southern states, is not at his most eloquent. 
 But it doesn't matter.
He is engulfed in thunderous applause anyway, from dazzled Kentuckians who confess they know little about his politics, even, some of them, whether he is a real Republican. Nor do they care. They have come to meet the Mayor of America and they are not disappointed. 
"He's a hero," said a merchant of animal feed from Cold Spring, Ky. "We don't have that many of them left."
Rudolph W. Giuliani, improbable icon from New York. Cheered at the All-Star Game, acclaimed at the MTV Video Music Awards, even said (unverifiably) to be on the short list for this year's Nobel Peace Prize, getting a higher approval rating than the president -- legacies of his powerful leadership in his city's darkest hour.
He was calm, direct and purposeful through the crisis of Sept. 11 and beyond, in reassuring control when nobody else was. And his bravura performance transformed him, overshadowing everything else -- his feuds with other politicians, his confrontations with black elected officials, his bitter scoldings of museum officials, his stubborn boycott of the United States Open and the tennis stadium his predecessor had helped build.
That and all the rest are footnotes for now. In fine print.
Before, he was the tough, I'll-do-it-my-way mayor, credited by fans with taming New York by cutting crime and the welfare rolls. But he went about what he saw almost as a mission so contentiously that by his eighth year, even fans had grown weary and were ready for term limits to move him on.
Then came Sept. 11, and now Mr. Giuliani can contemplate an unspecified political future that he could not have dreamed of before. And he is earning typically $100,000 a speech on the lecture circuit, running his own company, publishing a book next month on leadership, solidifying his Republican bona fides as he crisscrosses the country speaking and fund-raising for Republican candidates from California to North Carolina. 
"Mayor, many people think that with your level of popularity you're crazy to walk away from politics," a reporter asked in the Raleigh, N.C., airport during his recent Southern swing. "How's your health and are you done?"
Elizabeth Dole, candidate for Senate from North Carolina, stared. Mr. Giuliani roared. "How's my health and am I done? I'm very healthy, fully recovered from prostate cancer. And I'm not done, just in a transition period."
But after the memories of Sept. 11 start to fade, after the book tour is over and the lecture invitations aren't as frequent, and the midterm elections are over, does Mr. Giuliani move beyond celebrity if he runs for office himself, in a party several degrees to his right? Or is he stuck, however benevolent the vise, and merely taking abundant advantage of his new status while it lasts?
Put another way: Is this the beginning? Or the end?

Time to Make Money
Mr. Giuliani smiles at the speculation that he could break out of the infamous dead end that is New York City politics and be the first former mayor of New York to go on to higher office since 1868. He's heard it all, some from his own ambitious advisers: that maybe he'll run for governor. Or vice president. Even president, post-Bush. If he doesn't try for mayor again.
The 58-year-old former mayor is neither discouraging nor revealing.
"I thought and still think that I probably would like to run for office again, but it would be some years in the future. I needed time in the private sector, for practical reasons, to make money," said Mr. Giuliani, who reached a $6.8 million divorce settlement from Donna Hanover, his wife of 18 years, in July. "Maybe it's my personality. I like to do different things," he added, "to get a different perspective."
Right now that perspective looks out from a spacious office on Times Square, a glass-enclosed room filled with many photos of his children -- Andrew, 16, and Caroline, 13 -- and even more photos of his companion, Judith Nathan, a managing director of Changing Our World Inc., which helps nonprofit groups raise money.
The views from the office, in the headquarters building of Ernst & Young, the accounting firm and an investor in Giuliani Partners, are spectacular. The former mayor can see east, west and north -- but not south, toward City Hall and the void left by the destruction of the World Trade Center.
The past, though, is never far away. In many ways, Mr. Giuliani brought it with him. He put together a company whose partners and associates are drawn almost entirely from his inner circle at City Hall. His lawyers, communications director, trusted advisers -- they were with him then and still are now.
"He demands a sense of loyalty," said Bernard B. Kerik, the former police commissioner, now affiliated with Giuliani Partners, advising clients on security. "He surrounds himself with people who are close to him and competent. If you're not going to be loyal, you've got to go."
His close associates are still very careful about what they say, even reserved about matters of such great sensitivity as how the former mayor spends his free time (at the opera, eating at Italian restaurants, going to the movies with Ms. Nathan).
Though very much a public figure, he insists on shielding much of his life from public scrutiny, just as he did as mayor, on controlling the world around him, just as he did as mayor. He does not make his schedules public except selectively -- a reporter is advised to consult the Web to learn more than is provided in answer to a request. And he surrounds his public speaking with secrecy.
He closes most of his paid speeches to news coverage, as Colin L. Powell did when he was on the lecture circuit: why pay to hear a speech if it's on the evening news?
And Mr. Giuliani, whose candor has always been a political attribute, continues to be direct. He acknowledges that he is making political trips in part to stay politically visible, readily agrees that having close advisers around him means he has the makings of a campaign staff. Was that part of his thinking in setting up Giuliani Partners? "Maybe," he said. "I can't say the most prominent part. I know I have this very strong feeling of wanting to keep the team together."
This afternoon in his office, and in other chats on the road, Mr. Giuliani was relaxed, the customary tension nowhere to be found, and given to a small talk about his passion for golf, his children and Ms. Nathan, a constant presence in his life.
The thought occurred that he could afford to be relaxed now, freed of public responsibility. He doesn't have to defend a decision, is no longer the fierce Republican taming a Democratic town.
Not that he objected to the role. Before his interviewer even got around to asking what he missed about being mayor, he volunteered the answer: his call-in radio show and town hall meetings, where he dealt directly with the public. And his daily news conferences, where the impatient mayor did not hesitate to insult reporters if he found their questions wanting.
"Nobody believes it but it's true," he said of his press nostalgia. "For me it was like going to court every day. It was a good discipline. It kept me on my toes."
And in the headlines. Mayor Giuliani, with the City Hall press corps at his beck and call, could make news on a whim. Today, if he has something to say he has to find a way, as he did recently by writing a Time magazine essay reiterating his preference for building a Sept. 11 memorial on the entire disaster site. His successor, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, favors a smaller memorial, with some of the land going to other purposes.
The former mayor made his case with reserve, though.

Whither a New Rudy
Dare one suggest a new Rudy? There have been other new Rudys -- inevitably short-lived. "Sometimes I think I've changed, sometimes I think I haven't," he said. "I know I've learned a lot about myself, what's important in life."
An old friend, Peter J. Powers, said it's a matter of emphasis.
"A cancer diagnosis and 9/11 gave him a glimpse of his own mortality," Mr. Powers said. "If anything is going to show you you'd better enjoy your life, that you'd better think about what's worth getting exercised about, it's a combination of those two things. It did change him. But it didn't totally morph him."
In fact, a lot has stayed fundamentally the same. Mr. Giuliani still has many of the trappings of office, including a large city-provided security detail for himself, his children and Ms. Nathan, and a small entourage when he travels.
He is accompanied by at least one political adviser on most trips -- Bruce J. Teitelbaum, his former political adviser, or Anthony V. Carbonetti, his former chief of staff. Both are in the new business, described as a consulting-investing company. It is advising Purdue Pharma, the company that makes the pain reliever OxyContin, on security.
Detailed insights into Giuliani Partners are hard to come by. Presumably, Mr. Giuliani will be more forthcoming if he runs for office.
His associates do not doubt that he is speaking for more than money. They theorize that he could succeed Dick Cheney as Mr. Bush's running mate in 2004 if the president needs Northeast and industrial states.
Others who are not Giuliani fans theorize that the Bush administration would not risk aligning with the independent former mayor for a bagful of electoral votes.
For now, White House advisers say only complimentary things about the former mayor, and Mr. Giuliani returns the favor. He will not be caught saying anything critical about the president, or anybody else, for that matter. 
Although Mr. Bloomberg has reversed many of his policies, Mr. Giuliani has expressed dissent only about plans for the trade center memorial. He does not bridle when reminded of his failed attempt to extend his term by three months last year -- "Things probably turned out best."
When asked about seeing Mr. Bloomberg change his policies -- cancel plans for new baseball stadiums, for instance -- Mr. Giuliani says he will not carp from the sidelines and thinks his successor is doing fine: "He's being himself, which he should be."
Mr. Giuliani seems eager to appear philosophical even about criticisms of his record, from his failure to get control of education to a report by an independent consultant that cited critical difficulties with radio communications and poor coordination between the former mayor's prized Fire and Police Departments on Sept. 11.
"I think there is no question errors were made; you can't do a complex task without making errors," Mr. Giuliani said. "But I think if someone were to look at it fairly, they would say it was run about as well as you could expect human beings to run it, given the realities of what was going on."
He expected criticism, he added. "I'm quite confident, given the results, people can put it in the proper context, meaning the results of so many people saved, of the city coming out of it the way it did."
That display of tolerance is the most surprising change in the man. Even in his last days as mayor, when he removed his files and papers from City Hall, he led others to see him, still, as the control-bound man he ever was. Perhaps now that he is no longer able to control the city, he is working at controlling himself, recognizing that while New Yorkers like their politicians tough, most of America prefers them affable.
Or maybe starting over -- being divorced, out of the pressure cooker of City Hall and obviously happy with Ms. Nathan -- is enough to relax the Giuliani scowl.
The couple is finalizing details on a new Manhattan apartment, living in a Midtown hotel in the meantime. Weekends are spent on the links, on courses from Westchester to New Jersey, or at Ms. Nathan's condominium in Southampton. Their future? "Judith and I are going to be together forever."
His friend Howard Koeppel, a car dealer, said: "She loves him very much and he loves her. I don't think you could live with him for 10 minutes, but she really worships him. He's not the easiest person in the world. That's just the way he is and that's why we all love Rudy. He takes no prisoners. But he's lovable."
The old Rudy still rankles in some quarters. Edward I. Koch, an ally-turned-enemy, argues that Mr. Giuliani's reputation will ultimately suffer from the budget and homeless problems he left behind, questions raised about the city's emergency preparedness, and his temperament: "He was mean before he was mayor, mean after and will be the rest of his life."

9/11 Self-Promotion
Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, accuses Mr. Giuliani of turning last year's horror into a self-promoting industry. "He has marketed this very successfully, the only man in America to turn it into an industry," Mr. Ferrer said.
Others have quietly complained that Mr. Giuliani's agent, Brad Grey, co-produced the HBO special about Sept. 11, which starred the former mayor and featured several members of his administration and Ms. Nathan.
Mr. Giuliani, who wanted the film made before memories faded, said he was sensitive about not exploiting the tragedy, delaying publication of his book until after the anniversary, donating some fees to charity, making many unpaid appearances. "But Sept. 11 was part of my life," he said. "I can't take it out of my life."
The disaster is not so much the focus of his speeches and civic appearances, as a touchstone.
Speaking to graduating seniors in Shanksville, Pa., where the fourth hijacked plane crashed on Sept. 11, he said America was attacked for its democratic ideals.
"We believe that you have the right to be a Protestant, a Catholic, a Jew, a Muslim, or any combination or different set of beliefs within those groups or any group that you want to belong to or not belong to," he told the students. "You decide how you want to communicate with God or not. That's what binds us together as Americans. And that's why we were attacked."
He advised the graduating seniors: "Don't be afraid. All of those terrorists combined can't invade us and take us over. We're too big, we're too strong, we're too powerful. And we're too confident of who we are."
The last time Mr. Giuliani ventured out of town to campaign for Republicans, in 1998, he turned few heads.
At the time, a dismissive William Kristol said: "What's his message? It has to be more than I'm a moderate, I play well in New York and I'm a terrific mayor.' "
Mr. Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, now offers a different opinion: 9/11 changed everything. "Rudy was a good mayor who wasn't going anywhere and had personal problems. Now he's a national hero." Mr. Kristol is hardly running him for president. "But it's a different country since 9/11. A certain toughness, patriotic toughness, not culture war-related, but a patriotic toughness, has become a more central criterion."
Democrats scoff. "His positions on social issues would be anathema to Republicans around the country," said one national Democratic leader. Many Republicans agree, citing likely opposition to the Giuliani brand of Republicanism from their party's influential right flank, especially the religious right and champions of so-called family values.
Difficult to overcome. Maybe impossible? Paul Weyrich, a leading conservative activist, isn't so sure: "He has greatly helped himself, not only by displaying the leadership he did post-9/11, but also he has been willing to go campaign for a whole host of people whom he doesn't agree with, and that is very unusual on the part of liberal Republicans."
"He had a couple of obstacles -- his pro-abortion positions and being for gay rights," Mr. Weyrich continued. "Those were two things which the conservative movement really couldn't swallow. Now all of a sudden I'm hearing, 'Well, if he'll be fair to us, perhaps we could swallow it.' I'm very surprised."

Untested in National G.O.P.
The former mayor has not tested his viability in his party. He does not speak about social issues, or political ones for that matter, unless asked. His speeches are not about Iraq, or the economy. He offers no solutions for the Middle East. He does not emphasize his positions out of town in favor of abortion rights, gay rights and gun control. He does not have to. Political figures out of office can pick their shots.
If he became a candidate, that would change. Mr. Giuliani argues that Republicans are more prepared to listen to his positions today than they used to be. "There is more of a voice today for the idea that there should be a broad range of opinion in the Republican Party on choice and on gay rights," he said. "I think it's still a debate. I don't think the answer to the question is obvious: Can a Republican who is pro-choice and pro-gay rights, because that is the way it would be viewed, succeed nationally? I don't know. I think more of a chance now than there would have been five or six years ago."
Perhaps they are. Or perhaps the former mayor is this year's celebrity fund-raising draw.
"He's the hottest political property we have outside the president," said Tom Davis, chairman of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee. Besides campaigning for Mrs. Dole, Mr. Giuliani has helped Bill Simon Jr., candidate for governor in California; Senator Susan Collins in Maine; Gov. George E. Pataki of New York; Representative Anne M. Northup of Kentucky; and many others.
Asked if he was uncomfortable supporting candidates who differed with him on everything from abortion rights to gun control, he said no: "A big tent means there are going to be disagreements."
Mr. Giuliani still has $2.5 million left in a fund he created for his failed Senate candidacy two years ago, and is accumulating those many political debts around the country.
Will Mr. Giuliani's iconic status last? That is one of the many ifs about his future. Another is his health. Given a diagnosis of prostate cancer two years ago, he says he is cancer-free and fine now, other than enduring occasional infections, a legacy of the radiation treatments. But even as he keeps to a schedule that would exhaust a younger person, he seems to tire a bit sooner and takes frequent breaks.
Sometimes, there comes a note of fatalism. "A year ago I got prostate cancer and then there was Sept. 11, so I no longer plan the future too much," he said on Canadian television in July. Yet, he quickly added, "But probably I will be back in politics."
It sounds like a safe prediction.
He is, after all, a former mayor of New York who one sultry summer day finds himself standing under a tent in Goshen, Ky., ending a chicken-dinner speech with a tribute to the Bronx Bombers. And commanding a standing ovation from an audience of beaming folks from bluegrass country who might not have turned up a year ago. If he'd even been invited.
A funny business, politics.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the political future of Rudolph W. Giuliani, and a picture caption, referred imprecisely to the ending of his 2000 campaign for the Senate. He withdrew, citing his health; it was not a failed bid.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani at an interfaith service one month after the attack. (Pool photo by Reuters); Mr. Giuliani yesterday in his glass-enclosed office in Times Square. Its windows offer views to the north, east and west, but not south, toward City Hall and ground zero. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); With Jennifer Lopez at the MTV Video Music Awards. The former mayor, who failed in a Senate bid two years ago, now gets a higher approval rating than the president. (Agence France-Presse); Raising funds for Elizabeth Dole in July, Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Dole, a Republican Senate candidate, tried on hats given by Mayor Pat McCrory, center, of Charlotte, N.C. (Associated Press); In Kentucky in July, on one of his many trips for Republican candidates, Mr. Giuliani held a gift from Representative Anne M. Northup and Senator Mitch McConnell. (Bill Luster/The Courier-Journal)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); AWARDS & PRIZES (86%); FUNDRAISING (76%); TENNIS (76%); SPORTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); TERM LIMITS (66%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (65%); HIJACKING (64%); MUSIC (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); TERRORISM (63%); LIVESTOCK FEED (51%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); ELIZABETH DOLE (70%); PAT MCCRORY (70%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



143 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: PERSPECTIVES; 
German Leader's Warning: War Plan Is a Huge Mistake

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: HANOVER, Germany, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Gerhard Schroder, the German chancellor, believes that the Bush administration is making a terrible mistake in planning a war against Iraq, and he is not afraid to say so.
 A new war in the Middle East, he says bluntly, would put at risk all that has been gained so far in the unfinished battle against Al Qaeda. 
 The arguments against a war with Iraq are so strong, he said, that he would oppose one even if the Security Council approved.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, Germany offered "unconditional solidarity" and support to the United States as "a self-evident duty, as a friend," he said in an interview at his home here. Fighting Iraq, which he regards as entirely separate from fighting Al Qaeda, could shatter that unity. 
"I think it would be a big mistake if this feeling of needing one another should be destroyed by excessively unilateral actions," he said.
Consultation is important, he said, "but consultation cannot mean that I get a phone call two hours in advance only to be told, 'We're going in.' "
"Consultation among grown-up nations has to mean not just consultation about the how and the when, but also about the whether," he said.
Mr. Schroder is in the midst of a fierce election campaign that some say has influenced his stand, a suggestion he denied. "We will win in Germany, and then I will have to stick by this decision, and I know what that means," the chancellor, a Social Democrat, said.
His stand on Iraq is a departure for Germany, traditionally a staunch ally at moments of crisis. Many Germans feel indebted to the United States for helping shape modern Germany and are uneasy about charting an independent course on issues of such gravity.
Mr. Schroder made time in his garden to reflect on the events of Sept. 11, their impact on America's relations with its allies and the talk of war with Iraq.
Recalling Sept. 11, he praised President Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell for their skill in quickly rallying an international coalition against terror. With the terrorist strikes, he said, the world understood it was facing "a privatized form of war, waged by terrorist organizations," that must be fought "using appropriate means, including military means."
Informal, sometimes smoking a cigar, Mr. Schroder emphasized Germany's close ties to the United States and its people. He and his wife, Doris, were greatly moved by the Sept. 11 attacks. His wife talks of living in America again, but Mr. Schroder has his eyes set first on the Sept. 22 election.
His stance on Iraq has appealed to those Germans who oppose war and are skeptical of Bush administration assertions that Iraq must be overthrown, not simply contained.
Senior officials in Washington are angry at his presumption that the American debate over Iraq is finished and his failure to give his closest ally the benefit of the doubt. They believe he is damaging the alliance for electoral advantage and is running against America. 
But Mr. Schroder believes that his policy is prudent and coherent. He insists that the goal must be to pressure Saddam Hussein to allow weapons inspectors unconditional access -- not to go to war regardless to overthrow Mr. Hussein, as Vice President Dick Cheney has suggested.
Mr. Schroder threw up his hands. "How can you exert pressure on someone by saying to them, 'Even if you accede to our demands, we will destroy you'?" he asked. "I think that was a change of strategy in the United States -- whatever the explanation may be -- a change that made things difficult for others, including ourselves." 
Referring to Mr. Cheney, Mr. Schroder said: "The problem is that he has or seems to have committed himself so strongly that it is hard to imagine how he can climb down. And that is the real problem, that not only I have, but that all of us in Europe have."
Mr. Schroder emphasized that he had put his own job on the line when he pushed his Social Democratic and Green coalition to vote for German deployment of troops in the war against Al Qaeda, and said it was his duty to do so. Germany, he noted, has some 10,000 troops serving abroad, second only to the United States, in Afghanistan, the Middle East and the Balkans -- so "no one can criticize us for lacking international solidarity."
But Iraq is different, he insists, and he said he resented finding out first from the media about the Cheney speech. Because he was prepared to call a vote of confidence on Afghanistan, he said, "it is just not good enough if I learn from the American press about a speech which clearly states, 'We are going to do it, no matter what the world or our allies think.' That is no way to treat others."
Mr. Schroder said he had seen no new evidence indicating that the military danger from Iraq had increased, and so questions the administration's urgency. He says he believes "no one has a really clear idea of the political order that would follow in the Middle East" or of the effects of a war on the stability of moderate Arab states, or the cohesion of the antiterror coalition. There has been little discussion, he says, of the economic consequences, in particular the price of oil, for the rest of the world.
The war against Osama bin Laden is not finished, he said. "My concern," he said, "is that we have not even begun to achieve in Afghanistan anything that could be called nation-building." 
Germany cares what resolutions the United Nations adopts, Mr. Schroder said. But the harm to the coalition, the lack of a concept for a new Middle East and the need to succeed in Afghanistan trump everything else for him. "These arguments," he said, "make me say, 'Hands off' " -- especially, he added, since the evidence of an increased threat from Iraq "appears to be highly dubious."
Sept. 11 made Americans more determined on the issue of terrorism, he said, but did not change the American democracy or the ability to conduct a strong debate on issues like Iraq.
Sept. 11 had an enormous impact on the Germans, too, he said. "The large demonstration in Berlin by 200,000 or 300,000 people was in fact a spontaneous expression of sympathy and solidarity. And I also experienced it much closer to home -- if I may be permitted to say so -- since my wife had once lived not far away, on the Upper West Side."
New York also has special meaning to the world as a place of refuge for those forced to leave their own country, Mr. Schroder said, adding: "New York is thus a symbol of asylum. This was very much the case during the Nazi period in Germany, and this gives New York a very special importance."
He knows Washington is angry with him, but he thinks officials misunderstand what real friends he and Germany remain. "What is the duty of a friend in such a situation?" he asked. "The duty of friends is not just to agree with everything, but to say, 'We disagree on this point.' That is what I believe to be the duty of friends in relations between individuals, just as it is in relations between nations, if one happens to disagree. And on this point" -- Iraq -- "we disagree, or I disagree."
He says he did what he thought was right when he put his job on the line to send troops to Afghanistan, "and now I am again doing what I think to be right," he said. "It is something that has to be done, and one has to have the strength to do it if one holds this office."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photo: "A Socialist Whos Attracted to the Center" EARLY YEARS -- Born Lower Saxony, April 7, 1944. Never knew his father, who died serving in German Army. Left school at 14. Returned to night school. Law degree, Gttingen University, 1971. PUBLIC CAREER -- Federal chairman of Young Socialists in Social Democratic Party, 1978-80; Parliament member, 1980-86; chairman of party group in Lower Saxony Parliament 1986-90; minister-president, Lower Saxony, 1990-98. POLITICAL DOSSIER -- A pragmatist who has tried to bring Social Democrats and Greens together in center, pushing them to see united Germany as a country with international and military responsibilities. STYLE -- Fit, engaging, loves a good Italian suit and a Cuban cigar. Successfully sued a journalist who said he dyed his hair. Married for the fourth time, to Doris Kpf, a former journalist. QUOTES -- "I'm a climber. The label doesn't bother me." (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) IRAQ; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



144 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Disease Hits Firs and Redwoods, Posing Risk of Economic Damage 

BYLINE:  By CAROL KAESUK YOON 

 BODY:
Douglas fir, one of the nation's most economically important timber species, and California's coast redwood are infected with the fast-spreading new disease known as sudden oak death syndrome, scientists reported yesterday.
 The researchers emphasized that they still did not know what impact the disease would have on the long-term health of redwood and Douglas fir forests. So far, the disease, which has killed tens of thousands of oak trees in California, has been found in Douglas fir only in saplings in Sonoma County. 
 But the potential for a major economic impact is already clear. Within a few days, regulators said, both species will be added to the official list of susceptible species, making these two important trees subject to the evolving state and federal quarantine regulations intended to stop the spread of this still poorly understood disease. 
"We were stunned," said Dr. David Rizzo, plant pathologist at the University of California at Davis who led the study with Dr. Matteo Garbelotto, a forest pathologist at the Berkeley campus. "Douglas fir goes up into British Columbia, so this is a big deal."
Mark Stanley, chairman of the California oak mortality task force, a coalition of government agencies, nonprofit groups and other private organizations, said that regulators and task force members hoped to mitigate the impact on the forestry industry, perhaps by regulating the movement of only parts of Douglas fir and redwood trees.
Current federal regulations include the requirement that all host species harvested from infected areas have all bark removed and left on site and be accompanied by a certificate before being transported between states. 
Harvests of Douglas fir, a major timber and Christmas tree species, are worth more than a billion dollars each year in the United States. Douglas fir is the dominant tree of the Pacific Northwest, giving the forests of the region their distinctive evergreen canopy. Redwood, also valued as timber, produces bark that is widely sold for landscaping in gardens.
In response to the new results, Gov. Gray Davis of California yesterday sent President Bush a letter requesting $10 million in federal money to fight the disease. "The implications of this disease are enormous, including a major change in the environment and landscape of California, severe economic dislocation, and an increase in fire danger," the letter said. 
The disease is caused by the microscopic organism known as Phytophthora ramorum, part of a group funguslike organisms known as water molds. Discovered in California in 1995, and thought by most scientists to be a foreign, invasive species, the disease is a close relative of the pathogen that caused Ireland's potato blight and another species that has wiped out vast swaths of forest in western Australia.
Quarantined regions include 12 counties in California and one nine-square-mile patch in Oregon.
Researchers found Douglas fir and redwood trees infected with the pathogen in the wild earlier this year, but they only recently completed tests showing that healthy seedlings and saplings could be infected in the laboratory by the disease.
Researchers still do not know whether large, mature Douglas fir or redwood trees can be infected or killed by the disease.
The symptoms of infected trees of different species range from death, in oaks, to small spots on leaves in bay trees. It remains to be seen how severely Douglas firs and redwoods will react to the infections. In the field, researchers found that the disease killed the growing branchtips of infected, Douglas fir saplings. The disease also killed young sprouts at the base of infected redwoods and killed the needles of the tree.
Meanwhile, as the disease appears to hop from species to species, infecting a total of 17 known plant species in California so far, researchers are left scrambling to find ways of containing the ever-increasing and often unexpected sources of infection, including yard and park clippings.
"The Bay Area alone generates a million tons of green waste a year," Dr. Rizzo said. 
Because the disease is thriving there, Dr. Garbelotto said he had been studying whether composting can be trusted to kill the pathogen or whether these excesses of yard waste will need careful tracking as well. He said he was even working on how to dry bay leaves for cooking so that they could not spread the disease to other plants.
No cure is known for the disease, and Dr. Garbelotto and colleagues are conducting experiments to find possible preventives that can be applied to a forest. In Australia, where a relative of sudden oak death has reduced vast forests to grass and shrublands, managers have found great success with aerial sprays of preventive chemicals. But researchers say that sprays would not be feasible in places like the heavily populated Bay Area or Muir Woods, a tourist attraction of redwood trees just across the Golden Gate Bridge. 
"There are more people in Muir Woods on a Saturday afternoon," said Dr. Rizzo, "than in these sites in a year in Australia."
In Oregon, the region known to be infected is near Brookings, by the California border, and only in a species known as the tanoak, one of the hardest hit of trees in California. Given the small area, Oregon's researchers are actually trying to eradicate the disease from their state by burning diseased trees.
"There's no good precedent for getting rid of a disease like this," said Alan Kanaskie, forest pathologist for the Oregon Department of Forestry. "If there's a precedent, it's that eradication fails. But maybe we can at least delay its spread."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wilting branch tips of Douglas firs are prompting concern in California. (Mateo Garbelotto and David Rizzo)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); CROP DISEASE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); BOTANY (78%); MOLDS & FUNGI (78%); PATHOLOGY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); CHRISTMAS (71%); POTATO FARMING (58%) TREES AND SHRUBS; FIR TREES; RESEARCH; REDWOOD TREES; OAK TREES; SUDDEN OAK DEATH SYNDROME; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%) YOON, CAROL KAESUK; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); OREGON, USA (92%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%) CALIFORNIA; SONOMA COUNTY (CALIF); OREGON; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



145 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Bush Will Seek Approval From Congress on Iraq
President Bush said that he will look for approval from Congress before taking action against Iraq as the White House opened a multi-front campaign to persuade lawmakers, American allies and the public that Saddam Hussein poses a grave danger to the United States and the world. A1

Terrorists Thwarted in Germany
A top German official said authorities had disrupted a militant Islamic group that was plotting attacks on Jewish and Israeli targets throughout the country. Fears of terrorism have risen with the discovery of unknown cells. A15

European authorities, alarmed by recent arrests of suspected terrorists in Sweden and the Netherlands, fear attacks by Islamic extremists might involve small operations that will be difficult to stop. A15

Germany's Leader Speaks Out
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder will not support a war against Iraq, which he regards as an entirely separate issue from the war against Al Qaeda. A1

'Sustainability' Talks End
The World Summit on Sustainable Development concluded with sharply mixed reviews. The culmination of the summit was a plan that set broad timetables for improving sanitation, reducing chemical pollution and protecting endangered species. A10

Haiti Could Receive Aid
The Organization of American States resolved to support Haiti's proposal that millions of dollars in foreign aid be unblocked and that legislative elections be held next year. A5

Israel Speaks of Peace
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel said for the first time in two years that he saw signs that peace talks with the Palestinians might be possible as a result of Israel's tough measures. A8

Chinese Leader Won't Hold On
China's leader, Jiang Zemin, has decided to give up all his top posts and the country will have its first orderly political succession over the coming six months, according to a new account of Beijing's secretive politics that claims to draw on high-level insider documents and discussions. A3

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A16-20

Political Campaigns Shift From TV Advertising
Democratic and Republicans say the once-overwhelming influence of television advertising on political campaigns is declining, leading them to aggressively embrace old-fashioned campaign tools like telephone calls and door-knocking. A1

Rare Disease Infects Timber
Scientists reported that the fast-spreading new disease known as Sudden Oak Death Syndrome has infected Douglas fir, one of the most economically important species. A1

Gay Rights on Florida Ballot
Conservative Christian groups have placed a measure on Miami-Dade County's primary ballot to repeal an ordinance approved four years ago protecting homosexuals against discrimination. A18

Marine Corps Chief Selected
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has chosen Lt. Gen. Michael W. Hagee to be the next commandant of the Marine Corps, officials said. A18

Settlement Terms in Question
A lawyer for 86 people suing Boston's Roman Catholic archdiocese in the case of a pedophile priest said an announcement by archdiocesan lawyers of a tentative $10 million settlement was premature. A16

Court Hears Son's Confession
On a tape played in court, one of two adolescent brothers charged with bludgeoning their father to death with a baseball bat said the first blow to the head sounded "like wood cracking or hitting concrete." A20

Parents Unaware of Teen Sex
Half of all mothers of sexually active teenagers mistakenly believe their children are still virgins, according to a report from the University of Minnesota Adolescent Health Center. A20

Man Infected With H.I.V. Twice
Swiss researchers are reporting that a 38-year-old man acquired a second strain of H.I.V. through unprotected sex more than two years after he was first infected in 1998. A18

Girl in Football League Dies
A 10-year-old who was the only girl in her suburban Chicago football league collapsed on the field and died three days later. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

More Tourists in New York, But They Spend Less
Despite the troubled economy and the World Trade Center attack, slightly more Americans visited New York City in 2001 than in 2000, tourism officials said. But that news was muted by the fact that domestic visitors spent nearly 10 percent less in the city last year than in 2000. B1

Pay Raises for Police
A state arbitration panel has awarded the city's 24,000 police officers raises totaling 11.75 percent for the last two years, ending a bitter and protracted contract dispute between a dispirited force that felt it deserved more for its sacrifices and a city that said it could afford no large increases. A1

Liberal Party Fights to Survive
Raymond B. Harding is orchestrating the survival of the Liberal Party, a 58-year-old uniquely New York institution. Critics who see the party as nothing but a throwback patronage mill welcome the prospect that the Liberals will fail to get the needed 50,000 votes to retain the ballot line in statewide elections. B1

McCall Takes a Victory Lap
H. Carl McCall, as the presumptive winner of the Sept. 10 primary, said that his likely opponent in the general election, Gov. George E. Pataki, did not stand a chance against a newly united Democratic Party. Mr. McCall repeatedly acknowledged and thanked his former Democratic opponent, Andrew Cuomo, who dropped out of the race on Tuesday and endorsed Mr. McCall. B5

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES A21

Martin D. Kamen
One of the scientists who discovered radioactive carbon-14 which helped decipher the chemical processes in plants and animals, he was 89. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Settlement in Fraud Case
Albert J. Dunlap, former chief executice of Sunbeam, in a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, agreed to a $500,000 fine. C1

Judge Blocks Sale of Hershey
A state judge in Pennsylvania issued a temporary injunction to block the possible sale of Hershey Foods. The state attorney general had argued that a sale would cause "irreparable harm" to the community of the candy maker. Hershey Trust has filed an appeal. C1

Record Auto Sales in August
The nation's largest automakers broke industry sales records in August, fueled by bountiful incentives and a willingness by otherwise wary consumers to spend money on new vehicles. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

CIRCUITS G1-10

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Countdown to a collision; ending legal secrecy; Joel Klein's first day of school.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RELIGION (76%); BIOLOGY (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); LITIGATION (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (68%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (61%); ARMED FORCES (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); LGBT RIGHTS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (94%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



146 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Is There Life for Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Without Martha? 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS and TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
Since its inception, the fortunes of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia have been entwined with the image of its founder, Martha Stewart. Now, as legal troubles continue to swirl around Ms. Stewart and her ImClone trades, some analysts are envisioning a future for the public company without Ms. Stewart at the helm and suggesting that could even help. 
 Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia has been looking for a chief executive to possibly succeed Ms. Stewart, a person who was briefed on the matter reiterated yesterday after the search was reported by The New York Times. 
 The company's board denied yesterday that it was involved in such a search. In a statement, the board said it "felt it appropriate to categorically deny the report contained in today's New York Times that any search for a new chief executive has been initiated." 
The statement also said that the board "actively monitors the business needs of the company on an ongoing basis as well as in relation to the investigations involving Martha Stewart personally." Shares in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia closed yesterday at $7.80, up 15 cents. 
The likelihood of a diminished role for Ms. Stewart was first suggested by the company itself before it began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in 1999. The company's prospectus, which warned investors that "business would be adversely affected if Martha Stewart's public image or reputation were to be tarnished," announced a strategy of reducing its dependence on its founder. The prospectus went on to describe the company as "increasingly focused on team-based content development," and pointed out how Ms. Stewart had all but ceased to appear on the cover of her own magazine, where she was once a fixture. 
"We believe that a reduction in our dependence on Martha Stewart personally and a better balance of personality and brand will provide additional brand durability, increased growth opportunities and a broader recognition of a new generation of Martha Stewart Living experts," the prospectus stated.
Some analysts are now suggesting it is time to accelerate that process. 
"It would be a step toward putting distance between Martha, ImClone and the company," said Laura Richardson, a principal in equity research at Adams, Harkness & Hill in Boston. "And it would be a step toward a turnaround in the company's earnings and stock performance."
A company spokeswoman said its plans to evolve its identity were on schedule, "according to a longstanding plan, and are not deviating from it." The stock price, the spokeswoman said, "will ultimately track the fundamentals of the business."
Ms. Richardson also said the company faced serious questions about its fate as a Kmart supplier, at a time when Kmart remains in Chapter 11 bankruptcy and sales are declining in its stores. A spokeswoman for Ms. Stewart would not comment on the Kmart business. 
One analyst, Kathleen Heaney of Brean Murray in Manhattan, said it was time for the company to move to improve its situation. The share price has been battered, earnings for the current quarter are expected to be less than half what were forecast, and company executives have offered no guidance beyond the end of this month about its fortunes.
Some of the problems stem from a weak economy, but most of them have been attributed to fallout from three investigations into Ms. Stewart's sale of nearly 4,000 shares of ImClone Systems, the biotechnology company founded by her friend Samuel D. Waksal. Dr. Waksal was indicted last month on charges of insider trading, bank fraud, forgery and destroying records to obstruct a federal inquiry. Ms. Stewart has not been charged with any crime.
Ms. Heaney called Ms. Stewart's possible departure a "nonevent." The company, she said, "is full of people," including Sharon Patrick, the chief operating officer, who have experience with the products and lifestyle the company promotes. 
Away from the boardroom, the company has already made some efforts to reduced its reliance on Ms. Stewart. In its redesign of its magazine, Martha Stewart Living, which will begin with the October issue, the company has highlighted three executives with columns and features focused on them, not Ms. Stewart. And its catalog, Martha By Mail, is being renamed Martha Stewart: The Catalog for Living. A spokeswoman for Ms. Stewart said that both changes had been planned for some time.
And in a conference call with investors and analysts in late July, Ms. Stewart said that one of her biggest accomplishments was creating a company in which there were hundreds of talented people focusing on the products and lifestyle promoted through her publications and shows.
The question provoked by companies like Ms. Stewart's is whether they can enjoy success once separated from their founders.
"Hey, I'm sitting here wearing a Chanel suit and she's been dead for, what, 40 years," Ms. Heaney said. "She's gone but the perception of quality remains. Martha's still alive, she just may remove herself from the day-to-day business to concentrate on the big picture."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); ETHICS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (50%) CANCER; ERBITUX (DRUG); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); RESEARCH; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; INSIDER TRADING; ETHICS 

COMPANY: MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%) MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA; IMCLONE SYSTEMS; FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (91%); LAURA RICHARDSON (50%) HAYS, CONSTANCE L; ROZHON, TRACIE; STEWART, MARTHA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (68%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



147 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: McCall, Minus One Opponent, Pokes Fun at Another 

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
H. Carl McCall may as well have been wearing a party hat with his suit and tie yesterday.
 Part mischief-maker, part leader of the flock, he sauntered down the campaign trail on the day after driving his rival, Andrew M. Cuomo, to an early surrender in the race for the Democratic nomination for governor. 
 Standing with a knot of local politicians at a community center in Buffalo, Mr. McCall said that his presumptive opponent in the general election, Gov. George E. Pataki, did not stand a chance against a newly united Democratic Party. 
"When they see all the support, they're going to do what the guy did yesterday," Mr. McCall said, waving his long expressive arms at his comrades. "George Pataki is going to withdraw before this is over with."
Mr. McCall was so pleased with the idea that he repeated it when a reporter implied that Mr. Cuomo could have saved him precious time and money by dropping out earlier. "Just think how much George Pataki could save me if he were to pull out now," he retorted, to laughter. "It's these 11-hour exits that bother me."
But that was as close as he came to taking a swipe at his former opponent, whom he repeatedly acknowledged and thanked during a two-city victory lap to Buffalo and Albany. 
On Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo, facing a near-certain loss and a faltering campaign, fell cleanly onto his sword in a political maneuver that had been encouraged by both Mr. Cuomo's enemies and his supporters, including former President Bill Clinton. 
Although Mr. Cuomo's capitulation drew the spotlight, the moment was a sweet one for McCall supporters, who were angered when Mr. Cuomo, who had never before run for office, first decided to challenge Mr. McCall -- the state comptroller, the party favorite and the first black man with a viable shot at becoming governor. 
Mr. Cuomo declared on Tuesday that in the next morning he would "set out to work with Carl McCall and Democrats all across this state." But he spent the next 24 hours or so on the national media circuit, appearing on "Charlie Rose" and "Donahue" and, his spokesman said, "making thank-you calls."
Mr. McCall, as the presumptive winner of the Sept. 10 primary, now faces a formidable opponent in Governor Pataki, a popular incumbent and an energetic campaigner with a treasury about nine times larger than Mr. McCall's.
But yesterday was not a day to dwell on the negative. 
It was a day to embrace former Cuomo supporters wearing blue and red McCall stickers, to announce that former President Clinton was planning a fund-raising effort for the campaign, and to stand on the steps of the State Capitol in Albany as Eliot Spitzer, the state attorney general, called Mr. McCall "a man of style and grace and wisdom" and many other pleasant things.
Not that Mr. McCall abandoned his usual caution. "There are some of you out there who believe today we should just run up the steps and take over right now," he said, motioning at the Capitol behind him. "But let me tell you, we have to go through two steps before we do that," he continued, admonishing people to go to the polls on Tuesday. Mr. Cuomo's name and that of his chosen partner, Charlie King, who withdrew from the race for lieutenant governor, will remain on the primary ballot.
It is not yet clear what will happen to Mr. Cuomo's campaign war chest, although a Cuomo spokesman, Peter Ragone, said that when the campaign's debts were settled the money would be closer to $1 million than the $3.3 million recorded in the last campaign finance reports.
Mr. McCall held a fund-raising event at the Grand Hyatt in Manhattan last night.
Earlier, in Albany, Mr. McCall stuck to his usual script, although he riffed to an audience more responsive than usual. 
"All the people of the State of New York know that George Pataki has failed us," Mr. McCall said. "He has failed our children. He has embraced the concept that says that our children are only entitled to an eighth-grade education." At that, the audience booed, and Mr. McCall intoned, "That's what he said!"
He also announced that if elected, Dennis Mehiel, a successful businessman running for lieutenant governor in an alliance with Mr. McCall, would lead the state economic development program. Mr. McCall denouncedthe governor's record on the upstate economy, saying that if it were a separate state, upstate New York would rank last in job creation.
Sandy Treadwell, the chairman of the State Republican Party, appeared at the Capitol rally to defend the governor, saying he had created 160,000 jobs upstate in his eight years in office. Mr. Treadwell criticized Mr. McCall for failing to invest more of the state pension fund in New York businesses.
But privately, top Republicans said that Mr. McCall would be a tougher opponent than Mr. Cuomo would have been. Mr. McCall, they said, was better liked and would be better able to hold together the traditional Democratic coalition of minority and union voters that Governor Pataki has courted.
If Mr. Cuomo had won the primary, they said, they would have linked him to his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, and the economic woes of the early and mid-1990's.
That is the same argument that Roger Stone, Tom Golisano's chief strategist, has made for months. "If Cuomo had been the nominee, a lot of the Democratic vote would have been up for grabs in November, and Pataki, the liberal, would have picked up most of it," Mr. Stone said yesterday. "Cuomo losing now is a substantial loss for Pataki and a substantial win for Tom."

GRAPHIC: Photo: H. Carl McCall visited the Capitol yesterday, jubilant at the withdrawal of his opponent for the Democratic nomination, Andrew M. Cuomo. (David Jennings for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%); CHARLIE ROSE (50%) DEWAN, SHAILA K; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); CUOMO, ANDREW M; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002 



148 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES; 
Flag-Bearer Of Fine Silver

BYLINE:  By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:
Michael James was 18 when he bought his first piece of antique Georg Jensen silver. "I had never heard of Georg Jensen when I bought the four-piece 'Blossom' tea set," said Mr. James, an Englishman who began selling antique silver as a teenager. "I'd never seen anything that amazing and different in my life. Everything else looked rehashed."
 Jensen, the Danish silver company, was founded in 1904, and by the 1920's it had shops all over the world: "In New York, Buenos Aires, Paris, London, Stockholm and Berlin," said Mr. James, co-managing director of the Silver Fund, dealers in vintage Jensen silver. "By the 1950's, Jensen had a shop on the Queen Mary, the Concorde of its day. The Jensen name has always carried an assumption of quality. The silver was always made in the most expensive way possible." 
 In the 1980's Mr. James decided to specialize in antique Jensen silver and kept buying. His timing proved fortunate. "Silver prices were depressed after the Bunker Hunt boom," he said, referring to the attempt in 1980 by Nelson Bunker Hunt, the Texas oilman, and his family to inflate the price of silver by accumulating large amounts. Then the bubble burst. 
To cater to the demand for vintage Jensen silver, Mr. James and Alastair Crawford, another veteran English dealer in antique silver, put together a group of investors in 1995 to form the Silver Fund. They amassed an inventory of 50,000 antique Jensen pieces, including estate flatware, jewelry and holloware. They opened a small shop in London and started selling estate Jensen silver at American fairs like the Palm Beach International Art and Antiques Fair and the Modernism show at the Seventh Regiment Armory in Manhattan. In 1996 the Englishmen created thesilverfund.com, a surprisingly successful Web site.
"All of our best clients buy on the Internet," Mr. James said. "You have to have a brand people trust. Think of it this way: if you were going to buy a tie online, you would buy an Hermes tie because you can trust the quality. There is safety in the brand. It's the same with Jensen."
Now his business has expanded again. Six months after opening their first United States store, at 1001 Madison Avenue, at 77th Street, in Manhattan, they moved their London shop. Last week they opened the new, three-floor Silver Fund store at 1 Duke of York Street at the corner of Jermyn Street in the St. James's neighborhood of the West End.
The Silver Fund is now the single largest source in the world for vintage Jensen silver, Mr. James said. "We are also the largest buyer," he said. "We buy estates. We buy from other dealers. We buy at Sotheby's and Christie's." It is the choice for people as fashionable as Karl Lagerfeld and as powerful as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
There is a lot of antique Jensen silver in existence, about $800 million worth of it, Mr. James estimated. He calculated the volume in sheer manpower hours. "In the 1930's the firm probably had some 200 silversmiths," he said. "In its heyday in the 1950's it employed 250. Now it has 12."
At one time Jensen made 33 flatware patterns, 23 of which are no longer produced, and about 1,200 holloware items: bowls, candelabra, pitchers, tea sets, trays, vases, wine coolers, covered fish platters and more. Like Georg Jensen jewelry, many holloware pieces were embellished with semiprecious stones like amber, amethyst, garnet, lapis lazuli, malachite, opal and quartz.
Within a given flatware pattern, like the ever popular "Acorn," Jensen created as many as 272 separate pieces: serving pieces, fish knives and forks, ice cream spoons, you name it. One full set is on display in Copenhagen in the small Jensen museum next to the shop selling products made by Royal Scandinavia, the current parent of Georg Jensen.
Why would people buy vintage Jensen flatware when they could order a brand new set at the Jensen shop in New York? "We are 40 to 50 percent cheaper, and we have more selection," Mr. James said. The Silver Fund also has a bridal and gift registry.
Jensen silver comes in three distinct styles: Art Nouveau, Art Deco and Modern. Georg Jensen himself was a follower of the Art Nouveau movement. His signature motif, the cluster of grapes, is part of his repertory of forms from nature, including berries, leaves and fauna, which he combined with lightly hammered plain surfaces.
Over the years before his death in 1935, Jensen hired a series of talented designers who were allowed to go their own ways. The most noteworthy include Harald Nielsen (1892-1977), the young brother of Jensen's third wife, Johanne Nielsen; Count Sigvard Bernadotte (1907-2002), the second son of Gustav VI of Sweden, who was known for his classic geometric shapes, especially cylinders, spheres and streamlining elements; and Henning Koppel (1918-1981), a radical modernist whose unadorned biomorphic designs have become icons of their time and are in great demand.
In the end Jensen's greatest talent may have been his ability to find and nurture other talents. Jensen did not lead an easy life and did not die a happy man despite his success and recognition.
The son of a blacksmith, Jensen grew up in a poor family in the little industrial town of Raavad, north of Copenhagen. He always called it "a paradise on earth," fondly remembering its powerful oaks, towering beeches and blue clay, which he used to sculpture human figures. As a boy, he was sent to work at a foundry to help support his parents and seven siblings.
When he was 14, his family moved to Copenhagen, and he apprenticed with a goldsmith. In his spare time, he took drawing, geometry, engraving and modeling courses. He decided to become a sculptor.
"It was an improbable ambition for a working-class young man," Mr. James said. "Jensen was driven to realize his dream. He passed the entrance examination of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts and joined its sculpture class in 1887."
After graduating in 1892 he made art pottery. Nothing sold. He married and had two children, but after his wife died he decided he had better return to his old craft, metalsmithing, to support the family. He designed and made silver jewelry.
Finally in 1904 he opened his own shop in Copenhagen. Soon he had 60 people working for him. His designs were a success; his business skills were not.
"He struggled most of his life," Mr. James said. "He always needed new investors."
His life was also filled with personal sorrow. He lost three wives, Mr. James said. He also lost control of his company. In 1925 Jensen left the company and moved to Paris to start a new workshop. It didn't work. The next year he was back in Copenhagen. He agreed to become the company's artistic director, a role that was fairly limited, though he continued to design for the company until he died. Today he is recognized for his immense creativity and productivity, especially outside his native country.

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the Henning Koppel designs for Georg Jensen from the 1950's. (The Silver Fund) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); ART DEALERS (88%); AUCTIONS (87%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); BRITISH ROYALTY (74%); SILVER MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (72%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



149 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Weekender Bennington, Vt.

BYLINE:  By DAVID A. KELLY 

 BODY:
BENNINGTON is one of those places where people brag that everything is close. In 45 minutes, said T. J. Carmody, the cheerful proprietor of Carmody's Tavern, an Irish-style pub on Main Street, "I can be in Williamstown for the theater festival" or "up in the mountains skiing." Brenda Jones, the owner of Brenda Jones Realty, said one big advantage is that an international airport is only 40 miles away, in Albany. Even the Chamber of Commerce is quick to point out what's elsewhere, within 50 or 60 miles: 12 ski areas; outlet stores in Manchester, Vt.; and concerts at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center in New York and Tanglewood in the Berkshires.
 Then what is in little Bennington, a town of 15,000 enclosing downtown Bennington; the adjacent picturesque, picket-fenced hamlet of Old Bennington; and the village of North Bennington? 
 For a symbolic answer, take a long look through rolling fields and over covered bridges and steeples, to the hilltop where the artsy and experimental Bennington College, populated largely by urbanites, has set its modernist buildings. This is still the postcard Vermont that nurtured Robert Frost, who is buried in Old Bennington, and inspired Grandma Moses. The native Vermonter who grew up driving the back roads and inner-tubing in the Walloomsac River can still be found. But there has been an urban intrusion. With your pancakes and maple syrup, you can get an espresso.

Workaday Town With a Past
Bennington venerates its past. Its most prominent landmark is the 306-foot Battle Monument, on Monument Hill on the north side of Old Bennington, commemorating the Battle of Bennington in 1777, won by the Americans. The Bennington Potter's Yard, a 50-year-old factory and outlet store, builds on the industrial developments of the 18th and early 19th centuries, when water power from the Walloomsac made Bennington a mill town and the center of much of the nation's pottery making.
The Bennington Museum on West Main Street has pottery, American glass and what it says is the largest public display of Grandma Moses paintings anywhere. Hemmings Motor News, a bible for collectors of antique cars, has offices on West Main Street, with an antique filling station and a collection of private cars available for public viewing.
Today, Bennington is struggling for a new economic balance. Batteries and automotive parts are still made here, but many manufacturers have left. Farming still supports some residents, and tourism is increasingly important.
Vermont Route 9 is Main Street in Bennington, and it intersects with U.S. Route 7 at downtown's commercial four corners. A new bypass is expected to be completed in two years; until then, a tractor-trailer or two may interfere with easy progress. There are art galleries, clothing shops and a cozy bookstore -- just don't expect to find them all open in the evening. Besides Carmody's, which serves pasta and sandwiches along with the Guinness, there are Mexican, Chinese and vegetarian restaurants and Sonny's Blue Benn Diner, a local institution.
So far, Bennington has few national chain stores and restaurants. Nancy Woltman, originally from the Bronx and now the owner of Panache, a clothing and jewelry boutique on Main Street, sees independent shops like hers as contributors to the relaxed atmosphere. "I go to New York on buying trips for clothing, and I love the sense of peace I get when I come back," she said. The rural quiet also suits some celebrities: Norman Lear, the television producer, has a house in the Bennington area, as does the writer Jamaica Kincaid.
The river that powered the mills is now used for kayaking, canoeing and inner-tubing. Bicycle tours and mountain biking are popular, and there is an access point for the Appalachian Trail four miles from downtown.

Buying In
The average price of a house in the Bennington area is about $150,000, and the market is active, with some spillover from hot markets in Manchester and Williamstown, Mass.
Second-home seekers will find stately older houses from the 18th and 19th centuries and a variety of newer dwellings. A house dating from 1785, with a modern addition and six bedrooms, was for sale in Old Bennington this week for $595,000. A two-bedroom condominium in a clapboard-faced building was offered for $69,000. In the countryside, old Vermont farmhouses come up for sale now and then, but more common is an offering like the eight-room Cape on 1.8 acres for $259,000.

Getting There
Bennington is 190 miles northeast of Manhattan. Take the New York State Thruway to Albany and exit at Route 787 north. Follow Route 787 for 8.6 miles to the exit for New York Route 7 east. Drive right across the state line, where the road becomes Vermont Route 9, and into Bennington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: VERMONT GOTHIC -- The Bennington Battle Monument provides an idyllic Vermont view. Below is a comfortable town that is in touch with its roots. (Will Waldron for The New York Times) Map of Vermont highlighting Bennington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SKIING (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); PAINTING (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); MOUNTAINS (72%); THEATER (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); SKIING FACILITIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (70%); BOOKSTORES (70%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); AIRPORTS (56%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: KELLY, DAVID A 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) BENNINGTON (VT); VERMONT

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



150 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1895 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. "The Liberty Oaks," a new planting of scarlet oaks in memory of the victims and heroes of Sept. 11. "Allan Baillie's Botanical Photography," through Sept. 22. Grounds are open Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Conservatory hours, 10 a.m to 5 p.m. when the garden is open. Suggested admission: $3; $1.50 for students and 65+ (free for 65+ on Fridays); free for children 15 and under; free for all on Tuesdays, except holidays; free from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. The conservatory closes 30 minutes before the grounds. Information: (718) 623-7200.

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway at Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx. "Sculpture From the Museum of Modern Art at the New York Botanical Garden," 15 pieces of sculpture on view within the courtyard of the Conservatory through Aug. 31, 2003. "Victorian Ornamentals," through Oct. 27. "Walking Meditation in the Rock Garden," led by Sachiyo Ito, tomorrow at 2 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays and Monday holidays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Garden grounds admission: $3; $2 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12. Garden Passport: $10; $7.50 for 62+ and students; $4 for children 2 to 12. Forest tours, Thursdays at 1 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 11 a.m. Tram tours, daily, every 30 minutes. Highlights of the garden tours, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. Conservatory admission: $5; $4 for students and 62+; $3 for those 2 to 12; under 2, free. Grounds admission free on Wednesdays and 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking: $5. The best way to see the garden is with a Garden Passport, which includes admission to the grounds and a tram tour: adults, $10; students and 62+, $7.50; 2 to 12, $4; under 2, free. Information: (718) 817-8700; www.nybg.org.

WALKING TOURS

"EXPLORING UNION SQUARE." Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the Lincoln Statue at the north end of Union Square. Sponsored by the 14th Street-Union Square Business Improvement District and Quality Street Tours. Free. Information: (718) 783-3260.

"WALL STREET RISING PRESENTS ART DOWNTOWN," a free self-guided walking tour of art in public spaces, including 48 Wall Street, 25 Broad Street, 1 New York Plaza and 45 Wall Street; maps are available at stops on the tour. Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., through Sept. 15. Information: (212) 509-0300.

"I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS: Today at 1 p.m., "Washington Square" stops at sites associated with the artists, writers and radicals of the area, meeting on the southeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 12th Street. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Rockefellers, Vanderbilts and the Astors: The Millionaires Mile" visits mansions associated with the nation's wealthiest families, meeting at 1 p.m., in front of the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. Fee for each, $10. Information: (732) 270-5277.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS. Today at 1 p.m., "Immigrant New York" tours downtown's historical ethnic areas, including Chinatown, the Jewish Lower East Side, Little Italy, Little Germany, Little Ireland and Little Africa, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street, at City Hall Park. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Central Park" examines the many uses of the park, with stops at Strawberry Fields, the Ramble and the site of the historic Seneca Village settlement, meeting on the northwest corner of Central Park West and 66th Street. Fee, $12, $10 for students and 63+. Information: (212) 439-1090.

STREET SMARTS, N.Y., two tours that cover Gramercy Park: "Glorious Gramercy Park," with a look at the former residences of various cultural figures, meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m. in front of the Gramercy Park Hotel, Gramercy Park North at Lexington Avenue; and "Elegance and Ale," with stops at historic pubs, meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. at the Washington Arch. Fee for each, $10. Information: (212) 969-8262.

"OSCAR WILDE IN NEW YORK," two tours that visit churches, clubs, residences and other buildings associated with the writer and literature of the day; the first meets tomorrow at noon at the statue of Chester Arthur in the north end of Madison Square Park at Madison Avenue and 26th Street and, the second, Sunday at noon at the statue of Abraham Lincoln in the middle of Union Square, at 16th Street. Fee for each, $15, $12 for students. Led by John Cooper. Information: (856) 845-0496; www.oscarwilde.9f.com.

NYC DISCOVERY TOURS: "Art History New York Tour: Celebrating the Washington Square Outdoor Art Exhibit" includes a stroll past the show in Greenwich Village as well as stops at locations that are associated with Keith Haring, Picasso, Andy Warhol and Edward Hopper, tomorrow and Sunday at noon. "Historic TriBeCa and the Sept. 11 Tour" focuses on the history of the area and its resilience after the terrorist attacks, tomorrow and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Fee for each, $12. Information: (212) 465-3331.

"TRIBECA THEN AND NOW: AN OVERVIEW." Tours of historic sites, including the Woolworth Building and the firehouse used in the film "Ghostbusters." Tomorrow and Sunday at 11:45 a.m. and 2:15 p.m. Fee: $11. Sponsored by Gotham Walk. Information and meeting place: (212) 629-1886.

GREEN-WOOD CEMETERY. Brooklyn, a two-hour walk through the cemetery where Currier and Ives, Horace Greeley, Samuel F. B. Morse, Louis Comfort Tiffany, Leonard Bernstein and others are buried. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. inside the main entrance at Fifth Avenue and 25th Street. Fee: $6. Led by John J. Cashman and Frank Mescall. Information: (718) 469-5277.

"DISCOVER PROSPECT PARK," a free walk that focuses on the park's water sources and Brooklyn's last forest, meeting Saturdays and Sundays at 3 p.m., in the Prospect Park Audubon Center, at the Boathouse. Sponsored by the Prospect Park Alliance. Information: (718) 287-3400.

ALLEY POND PARK, Queens. A six-mile hike on trails through the park. Meets tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. at Hillside Avenue and Winchester Boulevard. Fee: $3. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. Information: (516) 328-8055.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING. "Salute to Elvis Presley" visits those Midtown Manhattan places associated with him, including the Ed Sullivan Theater and Madison Square Garden, where he appeared, and the hotel he stayed in during the mid-1950's, meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the northwest corner of Avenue of the Americas and 55th Street. "Beautiful Battery Park" visits such Lower Manhattan sites as the Museum of the American Indian, Castle Clinton and Fraunces Tavern, meeting tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. on the northeast corner of Broadway and Beaver Street. Fee for each, $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.

"NEW YORK'S FINANCIAL DISTRICT." A tour combining the history of early New York with scenic stops along the Hudson, meeting Sunday at 10 a.m. in the lobby of the TriBeCa Grand Hotel, corner of White Street, Avenue of the Americas and Church Street. Fee, $3. Sponsored by Shorewalkers. Information: (212) 330-7686.

"TAKE TIME TO SMELL THE ROSES IN CENTRAL PARK." Three tours covering the history and treasures of the park, Saturdays and Sundays at 9 and 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Each tour, $15. Sponsored by Central Park Walking Tours. Meeting places and other information: (212) 721-0874.

LANDMARKS OF THE UPPER WEST SIDE. Stops at cultural, educational and residential sites in the area, meeting Sunday at 2 p.m. on the southeast corner of West 70th Street and Broadway. Fee, $10. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Information and reservations: (212) 979-2388.

"SIDEWALK SURPRISES IN LINCOLN SQUARE," Manhattan. Last in a series of free walking tours of the area, tomorrow at 11 a.m. Meets at the fountain in Columbus Circle, Broadway and 59th Street. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. Information: (212) 581-3774.

EVENTS

"EMERGING AFRICAN-AMERICAN FILM SERIES," Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street. A free screening series of independent short films and works in progress. Tomorrow and Sunday, 8 to 10 p.m. Presented by IFP/New York. Information: (212) 864-4500, Extension 213.

NEW YORK SUPER BOAT NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP RACE, Hudson River. More than 40 powerboats from the United States and the Caribbean will race up and down the Hudson River, from Battery Park to 42nd Street, on Sunday, beginning at 1 p.m. The boats will be open to the public at the Liberty Landing Marina in Jersey City, off Exit 14B of the New Jersey Turnpike, today and tomorrow, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and on Sunday, following the race. Sponsored by Fountain Power Boats. Information: www.superboat.com.

"FULTON STREET FOLLIES," Fulton Street, from William to Water Streets, Lower Manhattan. Today from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. A fair featuring ethnic foods, arts, crafts and antiques. Sponsored by the South Bridge Senior Citizens Center.

"ACCESS UPHEAVAL," an annual free, outdoor production presented by the Theater for the New City at various spots around the city through Sept. 15. This weekend, two Manhattan locations: Wise Towers, Amsterdam Avenue and 89th Street (tomorrow at 2 p.m); Central Park Band Shell, reachable from 69th Street entrances (Sunday at 2 p.m.) Information: (212) 254-1109.

17TH AUTUMN CRAFTS FESTIVAL AT LINCOLN CENTER, Damrosch Park and the Josie L. Robertson Plaza, Manhattan. Sponsored by the American Concern for Art and Craftsmanship. Tomorrow and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Also Sept. 14 to 15, same hours.

FOURTH AVENUE FESTIVAL, from Astor Place to East Fifth Street, East Village. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by Transportation Alternatives.

36TH AVENUE FESTIVAL, from 29th to 35th Streets, Astoria, Queens. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by the Dutch Kills Civic Association.

"17TH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL CULTURES PARADE AND CELEBRATION," Madison Avenue, between 42nd and 23rd Streets. Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Sponsored by the International Immigrants Foundation.

MOTORCYCLE RIDE, sponsored by 9/11 Ride for American Foundation, beginning on 59th Street, between 11th and 12th Avenues, in Manhattan, and ending in Battery Park in Lower Manhattan. Sunday at 10 a.m.

"BIG APPLE PERFORMING ARTS FESTIVAL," Seventh Avenue, from 45th to 57th Streets, Manhattan. Tomorrow, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. A celebration of the 21st anniversary of the New York City Gay Men's Chorus.

EIGHTH AVENUE FALL FESTIVAL, from 23rd to 34th Streets, Chelsea. Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Penn South Independence Community Association.

BROADWAY ASTORIA FALL FESTIVAL, Broadway from Steinway to Crescent Streets, Queens. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by the Broadway Astoria Merchants and Professionals Association.

FOURTH FORDHAM ROAD RENAISSANCE FESTIVAL, from Kingsbridge Road to Morris Avenue, the Bronx. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Bronx Council for Economic Development.

WASHINGTON HEIGHTS CHILDREN'S FESTIVAL, St. Nicholas Avenue, between 181st and 190th Streets, upper Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m

BIG CITY FISHING AND RIVER WORKSHOPS, Hudson River Park's Pier 25 (North Moore Street, TriBeCa) and Pier 40 (Houston Street). Experienced anglers will be on hand to give fishing tips to others, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Equipment and bait will be provided free. Also, a look at the river's ecosystem. Sponsored by the Hudson River Park Trust. Information: (212) 533-7275; www.hudsonriverpark.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WALKING TOURS -- A tour visits sites associated with Elvis Presley. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); GARDENING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); MEDITATION (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



151 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Hawaii's Little Chunk of Open Road

BYLINE:  By MICHELE KAYAL 

 BODY:
YOU can drive up 13,796 feet in a morning -- probably the fastest climb by road anywhere -- on the island of Hawaii. That afternoon, you can be back at sea level, watching liquid-hot magma spilling into the Pacific. And if you choose to keep moving, by nightfall you can be cruising past the orchards, ranches and plantations that are still an economic mainstay of the Big Island, as it is known.
 A drive of less than 500 miles, roughly around the island's perimeter with some inland loops, ricochets among vast contrasts: from the chilly, sometimes snowy summit of Mauna Kea to the fire of Kilauea, the active volcano; through black lava deserts and dewy rain forests; past tourist attractions and abandoned sugar cane fields grown up with weeds. 
 This is compact touring, but when drivers in Hawaii long for miles of open road, the Big Island is the best they can get. 
Hawaii's Interstate highways are a tease: 52 miles of pavement (all on Oahu) and none that can take you to another state. Only the Big Island -- about the size of Connecticut and nearly twice as large as the five other major islands combined -- is big enough to sustain a respectable trip by automobile. Because so much of the island is still rural, there are long stretches where traffic is sparse and the driving is relaxed and easy.
Routes 11 and 19, the major roads, are mostly well paved and have two lanes. The rural landscape, once heavily given over to sugar cane, has changed since the last mills closed in the 90's, forcing the island to try new crops and learn new ways.
Charlene Cowan, a macadamia grower near Naalehu, says she hopes for a future similar to the development of the Napa Valley, with visitors taking leisurely trips and sampling exotic tropical foods where they are produced. (She is pioneering the idea, running a bed-and-breakfast and giving her guests tours of her orchards.)
For most who visit the Big Island, the spectacular scenery comes first. On the upward drive west from Hilo to Mauna Kea, about 30 miles away, meticulous tropical gardens along the Saddle Road give way to scrub, then heaps of flinty lava rubble. Then comes the summit road, a largely unpaved, curving climb that challenges both a four-wheel-drive truck and its passengers. At the visitors' center at 9,000 feet, a bag of potato chips strains in the thin air as if it were an inflatable pillow.
On the narrow, rocky rumble to the top, the gray cooked terrain and rolling red dunes conjure the Moon. But once at the peak, if the day is clear and the oxygen-starved brain can take it in, the reward is a view across the island and the sea, with sunlight glinting off the domes of the 12 astronomical observatories on Mauna Kea itself and Maui's signature volcano, Haleakala, seeming almost nearby.
Back along the highway, south of Hilo, is the lava show at Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. The spectacle has turned up a notch since May, said Don Swanson, a park geologist, when a new flow began and spilled close to a road. Rivers of fire cascade down the mountainside, 2,100 degrees of molten rock. Hundreds of hikers at a time tramp across recently hardened, graphite-sheened surfaces, some still warm to the touch, to the plume of pink-tinted steam where the flow meets the ocean.
Kilauea has been erupting since 1983; in just the last few weeks, this converging flow has added about nine acres to the Big Island. Just outside the park, Volcano Village, a flower-filled town in a tropical rain forest, offers several good places to stay.
A few miles farther south, Route 11 goes through the Kau Desert, a huge expanse of chunky black volcanic debris. The settlements beyond it, in the island's southern horn, grew up in the 19th century in rich volcanic soil where sugar cane flourished -- bare-bones company towns to serve the sugar workers, for whom the pay was low and luxuries meager. Hidden away near one of these towns, Pahala, is the bright red, green and gold Wood Valley Buddhist Temple. It was built a century ago by Japanese immigrants who came to cut cane but is now tied to the Buddhism of Tibet.
The dirt road leading to it winds through fallow fields shaggy with weeds and random, self-sown cane and opens to a tropical glen. "The Dalai Lama has been here twice," said Maile Yamanaka, a temple volunteer. It is, as she put it, "his home in Hawaii."
Naalehu springs into sight, promoting its claim to fame on numerous signs: "Southernmost community in the U.S.A." It's enough to persuade tourists to stop and maybe buy some taro-flavored Portuguese sweet bread. This is the town where Ms. Cowan has her macadamia trees, and she is one of many growers.
Macadamias are common in this part of the island, along with other expanding crops, like coffee and medicinal herbs, replacing the old, monotonous vistas of cane fields. There are cattle, too -- brown steers dotting the hillsides, and dairy cows lying about in pens. Ms. Cowan says there are 5,500 farms in the entire state, with about two-thirds of them on the Big Island.
A road off the main highway goes to a barren black lava plain and a fishing village called Milolii that is home mostly to native islanders. Everyone here is family, said Kaimi Kaupiko, a University of Hawaii student who sometimes works in his parents' general store in the village, and it was only about 20 years ago that they switched from outrigger canoes to motorboats. Some villagers work at tourist hotels farther north; some own macadamia or coffee farms. But mostly, he says, they still fish.
Route 11 morphs into Route 19 on its way up the western, or leeward coast, and moist roads branch off it into the mountains to the Mayberry-style villages that make up Kona coffee country. Clusters of coffee beans hang from trees that line the roadside, and signs urge visitors to stop at the farms for a tour and a sample. On the other side of this route, are the tourists. In Kailua, families and teenagers stroll along a sea wall, eat at the Hard Rock Cafe and snap up refrigerator magnets and T-shirts. Tourism now makes up about half of the island's economy. 
Out of sight farther north are the five-star resorts, private golf courses and gated communities of the wealthy. 
The island's famous cowboys can be found near Waimea, where Route 19 passes after turning inland into the undulating velvet hills. Cattle graze on every slope.
And then there is the last curving leg of the trip, back south toward Hilo along the Hamakua Coast, where it rains 130 inches a year. The highway dodges in and out of impossibly green gulches, and in spots one wrong move on a sharp curve could send a car plunging hundreds of feet to the ocean below. Much of this coastal road traces what used to be a railway, built to haul sugar. It stopped service in 1946, after a tsunami destroyed many of its bridges. Now the people work in Kona hotels miles away or grow exotic crops like orchids or rambutan, a tropical fruit, or, on one farm, vanilla.
The Hawaiian Vanilla Company, in Paauilo, produces the only vanilla commercially grown in the United States. It has nearly 10,000 vanilla plants, a type of climbing orchid grown in greenhouses. The vines are thick, green and twisting, and it is the celadon-colored flower that actually produces the bean.
When James Reddekopp Sr., the operations manager, slices open a bean -- which looks like a tiny, swollen Japanese eggplant before it is dried -- and peels back its chocolate-brown husk, it reveals a sensuous black must, full of tiny gold flecks. Those are "purest vanillin," he said.
He added, with enthusiasm, "That's going to drive Madagascar nuts!" He is convinced that Hawaii's bean has a milder aroma and can beat its competition from Madagascar or Tahiti.
Like Ms. Cowan, with her agritourism, Mr. Reddekopp and his son, James Jr., who started the company, are pioneers, part of the changing face of the Big Island. And like her, they believe in their notion of what will ultimately help take all of Hawaii to a new verdure and prosperity.
"My vision of this state," he said, looking out over the neat rows of plants, "is wherever you saw sugar cane and pineapple, you'll see vanilla beans."

IF YOU RENT
Book Ahead and Read the Fine Print
Car rentals are big business on the Big Island, for both the familiar national rental agencies and local companies. It is a good idea to reserve well in advance.
Many companies offer four-wheel-drive vehicles but restrict where they can be driven. That puts the partly unpaved summit road at Mauna Kea off limits. Many agencies also rule out drives to places like the lovely Waipio Valley, reachable only by a clifflike road. To visit these remote spots, it may be necessary to park the car and go by bus or van or on foot. If you do rent from a company that allows a drive up Mauna Kea, read the rental contract carefully. Some have big insurance deductibles. 
Prices vary, but a full-size sedan generally rents for $45 to $50 a day, not including taxes, and a four-wheel-drive truck or sport utility vehicle for $80 to $130.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ISLAND BOUNTY -- Sugar cane was once king on Hawaii, but it has given way to other crops, as this fruit stand on the Kohala Coast indicates. (Douglas Peebles)(pg. F7); FRESH ROASTED -- Drying coffee beans at Bay View Farms in Honaunau on the Kona Coast of the Big Island of Hawaii. (Ann Cecil/Lonely Planet Images)(pg. F1) Map of Hawaii. (pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); SUGAR FARMING (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (74%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (69%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: KAYAL, MICHELE 

GEOGRAPHIC: HILO, HI, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (71%) HAWAII, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (99%) HAWAII

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



152 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 3473 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
From Photos to Relics, Remembering the Unforgettable

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
In the days after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon last September, some people lamented that art was frivolous or pointless in the face of such horrors. But that didn't stop anyone from turning to art for comfort -- or from making it, either. 
 Even before the predictions that irony would die, materialism would end and television would turn serious had faded, the "pointless" point of view regarding art drowned in a flood of diverse, aesthetically oriented visual activity. Coping was the overused word, but also a very real explanation. People needed to look at things that reflected their loss, and they often made them themselves. 
 Within 48 hours of the attacks, a vibrant form of participatory folk art was, if not born, then taken to new, often glorious extremes in the shrines that sprang up all around the city. Exhibitions of videotapes and photographs, many of them by amateur photographers, proliferated -- most notably in the "Here Is New York" exhibition in a Prince Street storefront in SoHo. People began planning memorial quilts and trauma-oriented art programs. Artists returned to their studios, sometimes working without electricity in loft buildings that were once in the towers' shadows. 
For the first anniversary of the attacks, scores of exhibitions and screenings have been organized in museums, galleries, libraries and the lobbies of office buildings. Many, but not all, display art made in reaction to or in commemoration of the attacks -- by children, quilters and photographers, as well as by people who make art on a full-time basis. Some shows are already open; others cannot be seen until Tuesday or Wednesday. 
It seems irrelevant right now to consider whether any of this work is commensurate with the loss. Much of it isn't, but some definitely is. If these shows run the gamut in quality, there is comfort and clarity, whether emotional or aesthetic, to be gained from all of them. And they all affirm that the will toward visual expression is hard-wired into human nature.

Baruch College
"In Memory: The Art of Afterward," an exhibition at the Sidney Mishkin Gallery at Baruch College, is a useful reminder that contemporary artists from around the globe have tried to respond to trauma in life-affirming ways, and with immense stylistic diversity. The show, organized by the Legacy Project, a New York-based organization that studies artistic responses to the effects of violence, includes work made during the last four decades by artists from 16 countries. 
They commemorate specific historic traumas, including American slavery (Betty Saar) and the killings of Armenians by Turkish soldiers in World War I (Samia Barsamian), as well as broader occurrences like displacement or the deaths of loved ones. The show is a mix of the familiar and the less known, of maudlin and good work.
Good includes a small, dynamic wood maquette relief from Frank Stella's "Polish Village" series and "Martial Law V" by the Japanese painter Shigeo Ishii (1933-1962). Mr. Ishii's work, made during the American occupation of Japan, depicts a sharp-edged urban canyon full of hovering, spinning black spheres.
Another of the show's surprises is "Painting With Flying Houses" (1975) by Oscar Rabine, a Russian living in Paris; it is a dark, robust reprise of Chagall and Kandinsky.

New-York Historical Society
Commemorative visual gestures take many forms, but the three primary -- not always separate, of course -- seem to be artifacts (or relics), documentaries and art. They are all in evidence at the New-York Historical Society, beginning in its Great Hall with displays of a street shrine, some artifacts and 15 photographs of ground zero by David Margules, a photographer for The New York Post. 
But the main event here is a sequence of three photography exhibitions and a spherical panorama of New York City that together create an extremely moving progression of emotional and visual perspectives. 
First comes "Twin Towers Remembered," a selection from the many photographs that Camilo Jose Vergara made of the World Trade Center during what was, in essence, a 30-year love affair with the buildings. Recording their existence from construction to destruction, from all angles, in all kinds of weather, these images celebrate the towers as icons of power and glamour -- glinting in the sun, being saluted by tugboats, dominating Lower Manhattan.
But they also show the sheer variety and extent of the buildings' visibility. Whether looming large or barely visible in the distance, they were landmarks in locales throughout the region, from the marshes of Jamaica Bay to the broken-down docks of Newark. Mr. Vergara had his camera with him on Sept. 11, and later returned to some of his favorite viewpoints to photograph New York without the towers, and these pictures are also included. 
While images of ground zero might logically follow Mr. Vergara's, the second exhibition focuses instead on the people who came to see it. "Pilgrimage: Looking at Ground Zero" consists of 30 photographs taken by Kevin Bubriski during five visits to New York toward the end of last year.
These large black-and-white images have none of the randomness of expression or movement associated with street photography. Their caught-in-the-headlights intensity conveys an incredible range of human response that is neither forced nor disguised. Pilgrims are seekers, and Mr. Bubriski's pictures show people in the moment of finding what they sought, a deeper, more literal understanding of the destruction of the attacks. 
"Beyond Ground Zero: The Forensic Science of Disaster Recovery," an exhibition of color photographs by the photojournalist Richard Press, takes another view of the aftermath of the attacks, with images of the New York City medical examiner's office and the Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island in the months since last September.
Accompanied by explanatory labels, they show the refrigerated trucks, each with its own American flag and potted flowers, where human remains were temporarily stored; rows of frost-covered vials containing tissue samples; a single tooth in a test tube; and workers examining chunks of debris on a conveyor belt. Their combination of blunt factuality and implicit tenderness has an undeniable power. 
With "In the Light of Memory: A Spherical Panorama From the South Tower of the World Trade Center," the progression of shifting perspectives comes to a close with an exhilarating yet painful moment of illusion created by the painter Christopher Evans.
This time, we see the world as it looked from the public concourse of the South Tower, a view that will never be seen again. It is painted with wonderful precision and restraint on a sphere that seems as light and smooth as a balloon shot through with the late-afternoon sun. (Jan Van Eyck must be Mr. Evans's favorite artist.)
Everything is there: the rivers, the harbor, the lesser skyscrapers of Manhattan, the afternoon sun, the expanses of New Jersey, Staten Island and Long Island stretching toward the curved horizons, and, finally, the big striated plane of the North Tower. For one second, it is as if Sept. 11, 2001, never happened. 
The final element in the historical society's 9/11 presentation is a well-chosen sampling of the many films and videos that have been made about the attacks and their aftermath, including Bryan Kortis and Steven Mudrick's "WTC: Uncut," which will have its premiere on Tuesday. Other substantial film and video programs are being presented at the Kitchen Art Gallery in Chelsea and at the American Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens, which is also showing "WTC: Uncut."

Museum of the City Of New York
"The Day Our World Changed: Children's Art of 9/11," which opens today at the Museum of the City of New York, counters the unflinching scrutiny pervading the shows at the New-York Historical Society with works infused with exaggeration, poetry and even joy. An exhibition of art by New York City schoolchildren, solicited by the New York University Child Study Center, the show includes watercolors, drawings, collages and murals.
Judging from the book that accompanies the exhibition, there was a lot to choose from, because many of the works look superb. The art of children can give horrific events a beguiling, comedic air while also revealing primal feelings with inspired intensity. 
In addition, the museum has organized a powerful photography exhibition of its own. In the lobby of 195 Broadway in Lower Manhattan, it will display 70 of the haunting images of ground zero taken by Joel Meyerowitz.

American Folk Art Museum
Like other New York art museums, the American Folk Art Museum has turned to its permanent collection and is observing the 9/11 anniversary with a display of Edward Hicks's "Peaceable Kingdom" at its building on West 53rd Street. But the museum's Eva and Morris Feld Gallery at Lincoln Square has something more specific: "The National Tribute Quilt," a 33-foot-long mural quilt assembled by four women who work in the Pittsburgh steel industry and call themselves the Steel Quilters of Pittsburgh.
This shimmering, mosaiclike expanse depicts the skyline of Manhattan with the towers sheathed in gold. Up close, its more than 3,100 3-by-3-inch squares come into focus. Made by more than 1,000 quilters in the United States and abroad, they are individually inscribed or embroidered with the names of the people known to have died in New York, at the Pentagon and aboard the four hijacked airplanes.

Deutsche Bank
An excellent exhibition in the lobby of the Deutsche Bank, also on West 53rd Street, steps back in time. "Americus: Selections From the New York City Fire Museum" celebrates the collective spirit, pageantry and courage of the city's fire companies over several generations.
Its beautiful, unpretentious mix of objects and images includes prints, photographs, models and toys, among them a spectacular model of a horse-drawn aerial ladder truck. Among the 19th-century material are leather buckets and fire hoses, wood water mains, brass speaking trumpets and elaborately decorated leather presentation shields. 
This exhibition dovetails with what promises to be a simple but heart-rending display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art: the chalkboards on which the firefighters on duty at Engine Company 22 and Ladder Company 13 in Manhattan signed out on Sept. 11. Damaged when distraught firefighters removed them from the wall for safekeeping, the boards were restored by the Met's conservation department and placed in hermetically sealed frames. Before being returned to the companies, they will be shown in the museum's Charles Engelhard Court for six days, beginning Tuesday. 

Municipal Art Society
The idiosyncratic display at the Municipal Art Society is less an exhibition than a collective work of late Conceptual art orchestrated by the small staff of the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council. The council had offices in the World Trade Center and in cooperation with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey sponsored a studio program on the 91st and 92nd floors of the North Tower, which was overseen by Moukhtar Kocache, the council's director of visual and media arts. (Michael Richards, one of the participants last year, died in the collapse of the building.) 
Invited to present a show at the Municipal Art Society, Mr. Kocache, in turn, invited the former participants in the program (about 140 artists) to send not art but photographs taken in and around the building during their residencies. The result, organized by Christopher K. Ho and Stephan Apicella-Hitchcock, is "Microviews: Artists' Documents of the World Trade Center," an austere presentation of more than 400 photographs, arranged in folders in a 20-foot-long line of black file drawers and also displayed on a video monitor.
This strangely affecting show returns to the fact of the buildings themselves but avoids their status as icons of urban and economic might, placing the emphasis on randomness and minutiae. It tours the anonymous hallways and cluttered out-of-the-way spaces, subbasements included, and occasionally shows someone in a studio, staring at a blank canvas. It includes views from windows, close-ups of ceilings and blurred images of bustling lunchtime crowds.
The images are numbered, cross-referenced by subject and organized in a strictly formal manner, which creates a dizzying array of shifting perspectives. For example, a view of objects on a desktop is followed by one of building roofs viewed from above, because their compositions are both strongly diagonal. 
Yet "Microviews," which Mr. Kocache intends to expand, is also as cumulative as a street shrine and almost as touchingly intimate. It measures the loss of the World Trade Center in fractions of time, space and material, in glimpses of lives being lived, and finds that it is as enormous as ever.

Art That Captures Before, During, After

A sampling of art exhibitions in New York City that have been organized to commemorate Sept. 11, 2001. Many museums will waive admission fees on Wednesday.

AMERICAN CRAFT MUSEUM, 40 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 956-3535. "Sept. 11: Artists Respond," an exhibition of 60 panels designed by artists across the country. Wednesday through Jan. 5.

AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM, 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 265-1040. "In Remembrance," Edward Hicks's painting "The Peaceable Kingdom" and 14 objects from the collection. Tuesday through Sept. 15.

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 36-01 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-4520. "Attack and Aftermath: Documenting Sept. 11," four documentaries. Tomorrow and Sunday: "Circling Zero: We See Absence," by Ken Jacobs, at 12:30 p.m.; "In Memoriam: New York City, 9/11," from HBO, at 3 p.m.; "Seven Days in September," by Steve Rosenbaum, at 4:30 p.m. On Wednesday at 1 and 3 p.m.: "WTC: Uncut," by Bryan Kortis and Steven Mudrick.

BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000. "Photographs of Ground Zero," by G. N. Miller, a staff photographer for The New York Post. Wednesday though Oct. 14.

DEUTSCHE BANK LOBBY GALLERY, 31 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 469-8002. "Americus: Selections From the New York City Fire Museum." Through Oct. 11.

DONNELL LIBRARY CENTER, 20 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 621-0618. "Art From the Heart," a tapestry of stories, poems and artwork. Through Sept. 18.

EVA AND MORRIS FELD GALLERY, American Folk Art Museum, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 595-9533. Two commemorative quilts: one assembled by the Steel Quilters of Pittsburgh, the other by 31 Japanese quilters. Tuesday through Sept. 15.

FRENCH INSTITUTE/ALLIANCE FRANCAISE, 22 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100. "A Day in September," paintings by the French artist Bragelonne. Wednesday through Oct. 17.

MONIQUE GOLDSTROM GALLERY, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 941-9175. Paintings and sculptures by the Brazilian artist Duda Pentaedo from his "Untouchable Paradise" series, created in response to the disaster. Through Sept. 26.

HISTORICAL MUSEUM AT HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Richmond Road and Arthur Kill Road, Richmond, Staten Island, (718) 351-1611. "Reflections: September 11 Through Staten Island Eyes." Through Nov. 17.

INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000. "Aftermath: Reflections on the Anniversary of September 11," a three-part exhibition: "Under the Veil: The Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan," "Bill Biggart: Final Exposures" and "Jeff Mermelstein: Ground Zero, Sept. 11, 2001." Sept. 13 through Dec. 1, with a free preview for the public on Wednesday.

THE KITCHEN ART GALLERY, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793. "9/11 Episodes," documentaries and art videos. Through Sept. 28.

LEHMAN COLLEGE ART GALLERY, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, at Goulden Avenue, the Bronx, (718) 960-8731. "Missing: An Installation by Barbara Siegel." Through Oct. 26.

LEICA GALLERY, 670 Broadway, near Bond Street, East Village, (212) 777-3051. "The Spirit of New York," works by 23 photographers. Tuesday through Oct. 5.

LOWER EAST SIDE TENEMENT MUSEUM, 90 Orchard Street, (212) 431-0233. "The Burqa Project: On the Borders of My Dreams I Encountered My Double's Ghost," an installation by Ulrick Desert exploring how immigrants experienced Sept. 11; it appears in storefront windows near the museum, beginning at 97 Orchard Street. Through Nov. 17.

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. "Chalkboards From Engine Company 22 and Ladder Company 13," boards used on Sept. 11, 2001, and preserved by museum conservators, and "Curators' Choices," works from the collection selected to commemorate the anniversary. Both from Tuesday through Sept. 15.

SIDNEY MISHKIN GALLERY AT BARUCH COLLEGE, 135 East 22nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 843-0372. "In Memory: The Art of Afterward," sponsored by the Legacy Project, displays art from 16 countries reflecting the aftermath of a trauma in each society. Through Oct. 3.

MMC GALLERY, Marymount Manhattan College, 221 East 71st Street, Manhattan, (212) 517-0692. "In Response," works by Virginia Glessner, Marie-Christine Katz and Todd Stone. Tuesday through Oct. 5.

MORGAN LIBRARY, 29 East 36th Street, Manhattan, (212) 685-0008. "September 11th Observance," a selection of works from the collection. Wednesday through Sept. 15.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY, 457 Madison Avenue, at 51st Street, in the Villard Houses, (212) 935-3960. "Microviews: Artists' Documents of the World Trade Center," drawings, photographs, videos and recordings documenting the World Trade Center by 140 artists who used studio space in Tower One. Through Oct. 10. "Imagine New York: An Exhibition of Ideas," a sampling of ideas from the public for rebuilding the World Trade Center site. Through Oct. 10. "A Life Lost, a Spirit Preserved: The Work of James Edward Potorti," photographs by a business analyst who was killed on Sept. 11, 2001. Thursday through Oct. 10.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672. "The Day Our World Changed: Children's Art of 9/11." Wednesday (with extended hours, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.) through Jan. 19. The 83 works, with essays and commentary, have been published by Harry N. Abrams in a book of the same title; $19.95.

MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE, 18 First Place, at West Street and Battery Place, Battery Park City, (212) 509-6130. "Yahrzeit: September 11 Observed," objects reflecting the Jewish community's response after the attacks. Through Jan. 5.

NATIONAL SCULPTURE SOCIETY, 237 Park Avenue, near 45th Street, (212) 764-5645. "In Remembrance: September 11." Through Oct. 18.

NEW YORK CITY POLICE MUSEUM, 100 Old Slip, Lower Manhattan, (212) 480-3100. "Stronger Than Ever," photographs, videos and artifacts that pay tribute to the 23 police officers killed in the attacks. Through Jan. 5.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan, (212) 873-3400. "Twin Towers Remembered: The Photography of Camilo Jose Vergara," "Pilgrimage: Looking at Ground Zero," "Beyond Ground Zero: The Forensic Science of Disaster Recovery" and "In the Light of Memory: A Spherical Panorama From the South Tower, World Trade Center, January 2001". Through Oct. 20. "In Memoriam," artifacts related to the World Trade Center, and "Photographs by David Margules," taken during the recovery effort, both Tuesday through Oct. 31. The society will also show related films next week, beginning with the premiere of "WTC: Uncut" on Tuesday night at 7.

195 BROADWAY, at Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan. Information: Museum of the City of New York, (212) 534-1672. "The City Resilient: Photographs by Joel Meyerowitz," a selection of 70 images from the more than 8,500 this photographer took at ground zero over nine months. Tuesday through Nov. 3.

ROCKEFELLER CENTER, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, (212) 632-3975. "Faces of Ground Zero," 58 life-size portraits of rescue workers and survivors of the attacks. Wednesday through Sept. 23.

PAUL RODGERS/9W GALLERY, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-9810. "Ground Zero September 11, 2001," photographs by Jeff Mermelstein, and "A Slash of Hearts," painting and video by Donna Pressman. Both from Tuesday through Sept. 14.

SCHOOL OF VISUAL ARTS, Visual Arts Museum, 209 East 23rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 592-2010. "Art and Observance," a juried exhibition of works by faculty members (at the museum) and students (at Westside Gallery, 141 West 21st Street). Wednesday through Oct. 9.

YESHIVA UNIVERSITY MUSEUM, Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron District, (212) 294-8330. "Art Against Forgetting," paintings by Leonard Meiselman, and "9/11 Commemorative Quilt," a project of the H. F. Epstein Hebrew Academy in Olivette, Mo. Both through Oct. 13.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An art review in Weekend yesterday about exhibitions commemorating Sept. 11 misstated the opening date for "The Day Our World Changed: Children's Art of 9/11," at the Museum of the City New York. As the adjoining list noted, the show opens on Wednesday; it did not open yesterday.


An review in Weekend on Sept. 6 about exhibitions related to the Sept. 11 attacks referred incorrectly to David Margules, whose photographs of ground zero are on view at the New-York Historical Society. He is a freelance photographer; he does not work for The New York Post.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Top, Christopher Evans's "In the Light of Memory," at the New-York Historical Society; left, "Mourning Sun" by Wanda Martinez, from "The Day Our World Changed" at the Museum of the City of New York; above, a detail of "The National Tribute Quilt" at the American Folk Art Museum. (Above, New-York Historical Society; below left, Museum of the City of New York/New York University Child Study Center; below right, the Steel Quilters, Pittsburgh) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); QUILTS & QUILTING (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); WORLD WAR I (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



153 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Union Picks G.M. for First Talks 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
The union representing 46,000 Canadian auto workers today chose General Motors as its target -- the company that it will negotiate a new labor contract with first, to set a pattern for contracts with the others. But the union indicated that its most serious issues were with Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler, not G.M.
 Announcing the choice to cheering union officials at a Toronto hotel, Buzz Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers Union, said job security remained the union's top concern even though car and truck sales are strong. "Restructuring, job losses, layoffs and closures are still threats that we're having to face in our bargaining," Mr. Hargrove said. The union will also seek "substantial" wage increases, he said. 
 The American and Canadian operations of the Big Three automakers are closely integrated, with assembly lines in each country producing vehicles for the entire North American market. 
Still, for the first time in many years, bargaining on new labor contracts will not take place simultaneously in the United States and Canada. The current contracts in Canada are for three years, and expire at midnight on Sept. 17; the United Auto Workers' contracts in the United States are for four years and expire in 2003.
Next year's talks in the United States are expected to be centered less on job security and more on pension and health care costs, analysts said.
In both countries, the auto workers generally negotiate first with the company from whom, in Mr. Hargrove's words, "we believe we can get the best agreement with the least amount of sacrifice." 
Relations between the Canadian union and G.M. have improved markedly in recent years, Mr. Hargrove said, though the 20,000 G.M. workers he represents will nonetheless strike immediately if there is no new contract in place when the old one expires.
Few analysts expect that to happen. "There's going to be a lot of noise, but it will be settled amicably," said Dennis DesRosiers, an industry consultant in Toronto. "General Motors is in a position where they are very profitable, and have good labor relations."
For its part, G.M. is "confident that we'll be able to come to an agreement that meets the needs of employees, the C.A.W. and the competitive environment in the industry," said Richard James, a company spokesman. The Canadian Auto Workers last chose G.M. as its negotiating target in 1984.
By contrast, "Ford and DaimlerChrysler are in a very defensive mode right now," said Richard Cooper, executive director of J. D. Power & Associates, automotive consultants in Toronto.
All three manufacturers have recently announced plant closings in Canada. Last month, G.M. shut down a plant at Ste. Therese, Quebec, that built Chevrolet Camaro and Pontiac Firebird sports cars, eliminating 1,400 jobs.
But the union agreed to the closing of the plant, in part because G.M. was expanding elsewhere in Canada, adding a shift at its Oshawa plant east of Toronto to build more Buick Impalas and announcing plans to invest $191 million there to start making a new midsize Pontiac model.
Ford has said it will close a pickup truck assembly line at Oakville, west of Toronto, next year, a bigger concern for the union. But "Ford is not in a position to be overly generous right now," said Mr. Cooper of J. D. Powers.
The Big Three broke sales records in both the United States and Canada in August, with the help of generous discounts and interest-free financing deals. In the United States, sales in August ran at an annual rate of 18.7 million vehicles, up 13.5 percent from August 2001. G.M. did even better, posting an 18.2 percent rise and gaining eight-tenths of a percentage point in market share. Ford and DaimlerChrysler lost share. 
In Canada, General Motors' sales rose 13.4 percent in August, far ahead of Ford's 2.9 percent and DaimlerChrysler's 2.3 percent.
Industry executives say that the torrid sales pace is unlikely to last through the fall and that intense competition will erode profit margins.
Noting that General Motors had extended its incentives to 2003 model vehicles now arriving in dealer showrooms, Mr. Hargrove said, "They could meet our proposals and still lower the cost of their vehicles."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buzz Hargrove, right, president of the Canadian Auto Workers Union, will bargain with Al Green, vice president for personnel at General Motors Canada, which the union set as its first bargaining target yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%) AUTOMOBILES; LABOR 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%) CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD; HARGROVE, BUZZ 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%) ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



154 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: D.C.'s Fiscal House 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Tarnish Anew From Race for Mayor" (news article, Sept. 3) quotes Fred Siegel, a senior fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute, as saying that the District of Columbia's economic prosperity is "guaranteed by massive, endless subsidies from the federal government" and that the locally elected government "can indulge their fantasies because there's no accountability." 
 Less than 29 percent of our budget comes from the federal government. 
What's more, D.C.'s budget for fiscal year 2002 represents our fifth consecutive surplus budget. We receive no state government assistance, and our tax base is severely constrained because of the enormous percentage of property that is tax-exempt (federal buildings, museums, monuments, embassies and so on). Hundreds of thousands of people work here yet pay income taxes to neighboring jurisdictions.
In short, we have what has been described as a structural imbalance that presents a fiscal challenge that is unique to D.C. Nevertheless, we have put our fiscal house in order. As for accountability -- every dollar of our government spending, even locally raised revenue, is subject to Congressional review and approval. 

ANTHONY A. WILLIAMS
Mayor, District of Columbia
Washington, Sept. 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (53%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); INCOME TAX (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, ANTHONY A (MAYOR); SIEGEL, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



155 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
First, the Zoning Change; Next, the Apartments

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
One of the first results of a recent change in zoning in downtown Brooklyn is beginning to take shape at 53 Boerum Place, where construction began last month on an 11-story building that will have 99 market-rate rental apartments. 
 The nine-block area affected by the rezoning is on the edge of downtown Brooklyn and connects it to the Brooklyn Heights and Boerum Hill historic districts. Bounded roughly by Livingston, Smith and Court Streets and Atlantic Avenue, the rezoned area is dotted with parking lots, retail and commercial buildings, and a few residential buildings. 
 The new apartment building will rise in the next 16 months on a former parking lot at the northeast corner of State Street and Boerum Place. Its neighbors include the Brooklyn Criminal Court, the Brooklyn House of Detention and the Brooklyn Friends Meetinghouse. 
The developers of the new building said they were attracted to the project both by its proximity to transit links and by the change in zoning last summer that allowed an increase in the density of residential buildings constructed in the area and set a height limit of 120 feet for new buildings. 
"Without the change, this project would not have been economically feasible," said Mario Procida, president of the Procida Realty and Construction Corporation of the Bronx. His company, with Second Development Services, a Brooklyn firm headed by Louis V. Greco, formed 53 Boerum Place L.L.C. to develop the rental. Mr. Greco said that under the old zoning, only a six-story residential building with 50 apartments could have been developed.
Financing for the $25 million project is coming from the GMAC Commercial Mortgage Corporation and the developers' own funds. 
Regina Myer, director of the Brooklyn office of the Department of City Planning, said 53 Boerum Place was "the kind of project that was intended by the upzoning, which was meant to encourage new housing." Ms. Myer said another aim of the change, part of a larger rezoning package, was to promote commercial development and establish a transition area.
Another project that will take advantage of the rezoning is moving through the development process. At 233 Atlantic Avenue, between Court Street and Boerum Place, a mixed-use development made up of two 12-story towers on a common base, including up to 260 rental units, is planned on a city-owned site now occupied by a four-story parking garage. The project, to be developed by Two Trees Management of Brooklyn, would also include a Y.M.C.A, retail space and parking for 700 cars.
On the northwest corner of State Street and Boerum Place, Brooklyn Law School plans to build a 216-foot, 20-story, 371-bed dormitory that will replace the parking lot now on the site. The project, which has met with community opposition because of its size, is possible because of a zoning amendment that allowed the additional height. Construction is expected to start later this fall, with occupancy set for the fall of 2004.
James Whelan, director of the Downtown Brooklyn Council, an affiliate of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, said the popularity of the surrounding neighborhoods was also helping to fuel residential construction on blocks immediately east of the nine-block area that was rezoned. 
Mr. Whelan said plans were proceeding to develop a series of state-owned parking lots into buildings with 400 residences. The lots are on the northeast corner of Atlantic Avenue and Smith Street and on the south side of Schermerhorn Street between Hoyt and Smith Streets and between Hoyt and Bond Streets.
The developers of 53 Boerum Place say their building will be the first of the new residential projects to be completed. The red brick building, designed by the Stephen B. Jacobs Group of Manhattan, will have one- and two-bedroom apartments with 525 to 850 square feet each. 
Cheryl Nielsen-Saaf, a senior vice president at the Brooklyn office of the Corcoran Group, a Manhattan brokerage, said that the lack of new rental apartments in the area and the surrounding neighborhoods should provide a ready market for 53 Boerum Place. 
Mr. Greco said rents at 53 Boerum Place, which will have amenities like a roof garden, a fitness center and a garage for 85 cars, were expected to be $1,600 to $3,200, or an average of $42 a square foot. Leasing of the units is scheduled for the fall of 2003, with occupancy by that December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (72%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (70%) HOUSING; ZONING 

COMPANY: CAPMARK FINANCIAL GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PROCIDA REALTY AND CONSTRUCTION CORP; SECOND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%)

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



156 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 CRUDE OIL GAINS. The American Petroleum Institute reported that inventories fell close to an 18-month low, sending prices higher. In New York, crude oil for October delivery rose 71 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $28.98.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (85%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%) AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



157 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Small Employers Severely Reduce Health Benefits 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Kathy Steever, office manager of her family's automobile repair shop in Sioux Falls, S.D., is expecting a baby in December. Her father, who also works at the shop, learned last year that he has cancer.
 Even so, their company, called Pro Tune Up, canceled health coverage for all five employees last spring. Ms. Steever said premiums jumped by two-thirds, to $2,000 a month, from $1,200 in 2001, just when demand for the shop's services was slowing in a faltering economy. 
 The cancellation of benefits at Pro Tune Up added seven adults, including two spouses, and four children to the estimated 40 million Americans without health insurance. Cutbacks at other small businesses squeezed between rising premiums and the sluggish economy are likely to add to that number.
Although most large employers still offer health benefits, fewer small companies are providing coverage. Forty-five percent of employers with three to nine workers now offer no health benefits, up three percentage points from 2001, the Kaiser Family Foundation said yesterday in its annual report on employer-based insurance.
That translates into almost 150,000 more workers and dependents without insurance.
"There has been a significant decrease in the number of small firms offering coverage," said Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Foundation, adding that the surge in costs would make health care problems more difficult for policy makers in Washington and the state capitals.
Health insurance premiums across the country soared by 12.7 percent, almost eight times the 1.6 percent overall inflation rate, in the 12 months ended this spring, the Kaiser report said.
It was the largest one-year increase since 1990. Jon Gabel, who directed the Kaiser study, said all signs pointed to even higher premiums next year and beyond as costs for medical care and prescription drugs continue rising.
Small businesses had even higher premium increases: exceeding 14 percent for employers with fewer than 50 workers. That has led many small-business owners to abandon coverage, sometimes even for themselves and their family members. "Dad is just taking a chance that he's getting a clean bill of health on his cancer," said Ms. Steever, whose brother owns Pro Tune Up.
Michael Wiston, president of the Valley Marble Slate Corporation, which makes kitchen countertops in New Milford, Conn., said premiums for his seven employees had doubled since 2000, to a total of $39,600, while the services covered had been reduced.
"I have a liver problem," he said. "In another year, I'll be on a list for a transplant. What worries us is: What do they cover, and what don't they cover?"
Workers are paying more of the costs, as higher premiums, deductibles and co-payments for prescription drugs, doctor visits and hospital charges outpace wage increases.
The average share of the premium for single workers rose 27 percent, to $454 a year, and 16 percent, or $2,084, for families. But wages rose only 3 to 4 percent.
Annual premiums for preferred provider networks, or P.P.O.'s, which cover more than half of insured workers, rose to $8,037 for families, including $2,148 on average contributed by each employee. And P.P.O. deductibles rose 37 percent, to an average of $276 a year.
For a family with income of $30,000, added health care costs, including higher payments for drugs, doctor visits and hospital fees, could swallow more than half the average raise, said Mr. Gabel, a researcher at the Health Research and Educational Trust in Washington. He has tracked employer-based health costs since 1987.
"It seems like all we are working for is to pay the insurance," Ms. Steever said.
Mr. Altman of the Kaiser Foundation said, "These numbers have huge implications for the national debate about expanding health insurance coverage, regardless of whether taxes pay the costs or private insurance pays."
"Sharply rising health care costs will propel the issue to the very front of the national agenda," he said, "but they will also make it much harder to solve our big-ticket health problems -- drugs for seniors and the uninsured."
Almost all employer health plans use a type of managed care. Only 5 percent still have traditional fee-for-service coverage; 26 percent are in health maintenance organizations; 52 percent are in P.P.O.'s, which have fewer restrictive rules than H.M.O.'s; and 17 percent are in point-of-service plans, hybrids that typically combine features of H.M.O.'s and preferred provider networks.
With prescription drug costs rising 14 percent to 19 percent a year, more than half of insured workers now pay more at the pharmacy. Co-payments for typically lower-priced generic drugs are $9 on average, but the co-payment for brand-name drugs that have generic equivalents has risen 30 percent, to $26, as health plans seek to encourage people to use the generic medications.
Companies are pulling back coverage for retirees, the group that typically needs the most help paying for drugs. About one in three large companies offers retiree health benefits. Only 5 percent of smaller companies -- those with fewer than 200 workers -- provide retiree health benefits.
More than one-third of large companies have increased their retirees' share of premiums, and 17 percent have raised drug co-payments.
The Kaiser survey was based on telephone interviews with a random sample of 2,014 benefit managers at public and private employers, from January to May 2002. The margin of error was plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Wiston, head of a company in New Milford, Conn., said premiums for his employees had doubled but services had been cut. Mr. Wiston has a liver problem and wonders if transplant costs will be covered. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "The Cost to Small Businesses"With the cost of health care premiums continuing to rise, many of the country's smaller companies are finding it more difficult to provide health benefits to their employees. Graphs show COMPANIES WITH 3 TO 9 WORKERS OFFERING HEALTH BENEFITS since 2000.Graph shows the OVERALL INFLATION RATE and HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS since 1998. (Sources: Kaiser Family Foundation; Health Research and Educational Trust)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (76%); INFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SMALL BUSINESS; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATION 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (73%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



158 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Reports Depict 'a Stumbling Recovery' 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
A flurry of government and private reports today showed the economic recovery moving forward but also raised concerns about its strength.
 Reports on business investment and worker productivity registered improvement, but these were balanced by a weak reading on the service sector and still quite high filing rates for jobless benefits. 
 "It's still the stumbling recovery," said Steve Ricchiuto, chief economist with ABN Amro in New York. 
Even with this wide variety of economic data, economists were looking toward the release on Friday of August unemployment figures for a more up-to-date reading on the economy. Analysts polled by Reuters said they expected unemployment to hold steady at 5.9 percent, with payrolls posting a narrow gain of 37,000 jobs.
In a weekly report, the Labor Department said today that claims for unemployment benefits fell in the week ended Aug. 31, the first decline since the week ended Aug. 3. Claims dipped to 403,000 from a revised 411,000 the week before.
Even so, claims remained for a second week above the 400,000 level, which is regarded as a sign of a weak job market -- maintaining fears that the economy is struggling to generate jobs. And the four-week moving average of jobless claims, regarded as a more reliable indicator of trends, rose to the 400,000 level for the first time since June.
Referring to the job market, Ken Mayland of ClearView Economics in Pepper Pike, Ohio, said: "The hemorrhaging has very nearly stabilized at a moderate pace, which constitutes one-half of the unemployment equation. It's the other half of the equation -- rehiring -- that has yet to show any renewed life."
There were more gloomy tidings for the economy in another private-sector report. The Institute for Supply Management said its monthly index of nonmanufacturing activity slipped to 50.9 in August from 53.1 in July -- barely positive territory.
But the data from the government was more optimistic. The Labor Department said second-quarter productivity growth slowed sharply from the first quarter, but was higher than initially thought. Output per worker hour grew at a revised annual rate of 1.5 percent, down certainly from the 8.6 percent pace in the first quarter but above the 1.1 percent originally estimated in July. A year-over-year productivity increase of 4.8 percent was the fastest since the fourth quarter of 1983.
The Commerce Department said factory orders in July surged 4.7 percent after falling 2.5 percent in July, lifted by a record increase in orders for machinery.
Shipments of nonaircraft capital goods outside military industries rose 3 percent, which economists said was a sign that businesses were starting to feel more confident about the recovery and hence more willing to replace outdated equipment.
Excluding transportation equipment, orders rose 1.8 percent after a 1.8 percent decrease.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Factory Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeJuly: +4.7%June: -2.5May: +0.6 (Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "U.S. Productivity"Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses. 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. 2nd Quarter Revised Change At Annual RateTo: 1.5%From: 1.1 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows the initial jobless claims (4-week moving average) since March 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRODUCTIVITY 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



159 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: In West African Visits, Powell Seeks to Prime Oil Pumps 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: LIBREVILLE, Gabon, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell visited a group of girls orphaned by the civil war in Angola and a new rain forest preserve in Gabon today to underscore Washington's efforts to strengthen ties to two West African countries that are significant oil exporters to the United States. 
 Angola is one of the top 10 oil providers to the United States, and its ranking could rise as its offshore reserves are tapped. Those reserves could become more important if unrest in the Middle East or an American invasion of Iraq cause upheavals in the oil market. 
 For that reason, maintaining stability and improving Washington's relations with Angola have become high priorities for the State Department. As a sign of Angola's growing importance, Secretary Powell broke ground today for a new embassy in Luanda, the capital. 
Secretary Powell, on the final day of a three-nation African trip, also met privately with Angola's president, Jose Eduardo dos Santos. During most of Angola's 28-year civil war, which formally ended earlier this year, the United States supported Mr. dos Santos's chief rival, Jonas Savimbi. After the end of the cold war and the collapse of the Soviet Union, who had backed Mr. dos Santos, the United States ended its backing for Mr. Savimbi. In 1993 Washington established relations with Mr. dos Santos's government. 
Mr. Savimbi was killed in February, and an agreement to end the long conflict between Unita and the government was signed April 4. 
Angola, a former Portuguese colony, has one of the largest oil reserves in the world, but widespread corruption and the civil war combined to ruin its economy, as well as killing as many as one million people and displacing nearly two million more. The armistice has left 80,000 former Unita fighters and their families interned in 36 relocation camps waiting to return home.
Conditions in some of those camps are said to be poor, and American officials said they are worried that rebel soldiers will take up arms against the government again if they are not allowed to return to their homes and provided with jobs soon. 
Besides meeting with girls orphaned by the war, Secretary Powell also met with a multinational commission that is overseeing the implementation of the April accord that ended Angola's civil war. He told the commission members, which included Russian and Portuguese officials, that the United States would provide aid to help resettle rebel soldiers, and urged the two sides to foster reconciliation.
"The people of Angola have suffered enough," Secretary Powell said. 
But in an hourlong meeting with Mr. dos Santos, the secretary conveyed a sterner message, urging the Angolan president to end corruption and open the political process to Unita party members, American officials said.
According to estimates that American officials consider accurate, Angolan officials siphon off as much as $1 billion from Angola's $6 billion in oil revenues each year. Angola's oil production is expected to increase significantly, to 1.2 million barrels a day, in the next three years as new offshore reserves are tapped.
"Secretary Powell emphasized that you have to take the wealth you have and use it for your own people," a senior State Department official said.
American "petroleum security" was an important subtext to Secretary Powell's visits today, American officials said.
In Gabon, the secretary visited a new forest preserve just a few miles from Libreville, the capital, Secretary Powell praised Gabon's conservation policies as an example of what a "stable, responsible government" can achieve.
The preserve, Pongara National Park, contains elephants, hippopotamuses, crocodiles and monkeys, and is one of 13 new national parks created by Gabon's president, Omar Bongo, with aid from environmental groups, timber companies, the United States and other developed countries. The parks will contain 10,000 square miles of endangered forest, representing 10 percent of the nation's land mass.
The United States has pledged to spend more than $50 million over the next four years for such conservation programs in the six central African countries that encompass the Congo River basin forest, one of the world's largest rain forests.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell visited yesterday with four young Angolan girls who were orphaned in the country's 28-year civil war. The young women talked about the difficulties they faced in rebuilding their lives. (Associated Press) Map of Gabon highlighting Libreville: Powell visited longtime African leaders in Luanda and Libreville. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CHILD SOLDIERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); COLD WAR (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); RAIN FORESTS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); POLITICS (67%); CORRUPTION (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ANGOLA (99%); GABON (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); IRAQ (79%) ANGOLA; GABON

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



160 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Edison Schools Cancels Harlem Building Plan 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER 

 BODY:
Edison Schools Inc., the nation's largest private operator of public schools, said yesterday that it would abandon plans to build a $125 million national headquarters across Fifth Avenue from Central Park in Harlem, setting back one of the linchpin projects for the neighborhood's transformation.
 The chairman of the struggling company, Benno C. Schmidt Jr., said in a telephone interview that "under our current financial situation we have to focus all our energy and all our financial resources on our core business, which is managing public schools." 
 Whatever Edison's calculations involved, many New York City officials and residents of Harlem had looked to the project as an extra spark plug for the neighborhood revitalization that has already brought mainstream retailers like Old Navy and Starbucks, Bill Clinton and a Broadway-caliber show into the once-battered commercial spine of 125th Street. Ground was to be broken for the Edison complex later this year. 
"I do consider it a huge loss for the community in terms of economic development," said C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president.
Charles B. Rangel, who represents the area in Congress, was more sanguine, however, saying the site on the southeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 110th Street was likely to entice other developers.
"You're not going to tell me that a building overlooking Central Park North is not an ideal spot in our city," Representative Rangel said.
His major concern, he said, is that Edison's decision to pull out may hurt a companion plan to relocate the Museum for African Art on an adjacent Fifth Avenue lot owned by Edison. Mr. Schmidt said at a conference with investors broadcast on the Web that Edison planned to sell the lot to maximize its capital, suggesting that the museum might not end up with it. But Elsie C. McCabe, the museum's president, said it has the first option to buy the lot, which Edison bought for $10 million.
As envisioned in headier times, Edison was to move uptown from its headquarters at Fifth Avenue and 43rd Street to a roughly 15-story building the company and a development partner would put up on a five-parcel site overlooking Central Park's Harlem Meer. Edison owns the lot fronting on Fifth Avenue, the city the other four, but Edison would have given its site to the museum in exchange for the city lots. The idea was to link the museum, now in Long Island City, Queens, to the great museums along Fifth Avenue that style themselves as Museum Mile.
On the first six floors of the headquarters, Edison planned to build a tuition-free elementary school for 650 students. Supporters predicted that the project would bring 400 corporate jobs, many of them for Harlem residents, and that visitors would spend $2 million a year at nearby restaurants and shops.
In its eight years of operation, Edison has seemed to grow exponentially and now has contracts to manage 133 schools with 84,000 students, though it has yet to show a profit. Investors who once flocked to it as a hot stock were disenchanted by questions raised about its claims to have improved academic performance and by charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had provided inaccurate information about its past revenue. 
In recent months its stock price fell to less than $1, threatening its listing on Nasdaq, and several school systems canceled or scaled back their contracts with Edison. 
In the last week, the company's founder, H. Christopher Whittle, has put his $46 million estate in East Hampton up for sale in what appears to be an effort to pay personal debts resulting from the falling stock price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAILERS (69%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (59%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; PRIVATIZATION 

COMPANY: EDISONLEARNING INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: EDISON SCHOOLS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (95%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (95%) SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS; 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (77%); BILL CLINTON (56%) BERGER, JOSEPH; RANGEL, CHARLES B (REP); SCHMIDT, BENNO C JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



161 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Official Of Vatican Pleads Guilty In Conspiracy 

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
A retired Vatican official who is an expert on Catholic canon law pleaded guilty today to a federal conspiracy charge for his role in an international insurance swindle run by Martin R. Frankel, the Greenwich financier who is now in prison. 
 In a signed statement, Msgr. Emilio Colagiovanni, 82, whose career included sitting on the board that provides legal counsel to Pope John Paul II, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud and launder money. He faces a maximum of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
 In the six-page statement, Monsignor Colagiovanni, an Italian citizen and a priest for 60 years, said that in 1998 and 1999 he helped Mr. Frankel defraud American insurance companies that Mr. Frankel wanted to buy. His contribution, he said, was allowing his own Rome-based foundation, the Monitor Ecclesiasticus Foundation, which publishes a journal of canon law edited by the monsignor, to siphon $50 million of Mr. Frankel's money into a second foundation. It had been created by Mr. Frankel specifically to acquire the companies, the monsignor acknowledged. 
Mr. Frankel then told the companies' executives this second foundation, the St. Francis of Assisi Foundation, had received the $50 million from "various Roman Catholic charities and tribunals at the Vatican" interested in raising money for charitable causes, according to the plea.
In return for his acquiescence in the scheme and access to Vatican-based bishops and cardinals -- whose support Mr. Frankel and the monsignor sought, according to federal prosecutors -- Mr. Frankel paid the monsignor's foundation $40,000. 
Mr. Frankel pleaded guilty in May to federal corruption charges. He has also pleaded guilty to corruption and theft charges in Tennessee and Mississippi. He is expected to be sentenced next year.
In today's plea statement, Monsignor Colagiovanni named several Vatican officials whom he said he or aides to Mr. Frankel met with to seek their support in the scheme. They include Msgr. Francis X. Salerno, secretary for the prefecture for the economic affairs of the Holy See, and Archbishop Giovanni Battista Re, in the secretariat of state office.
The document does not make clear whether these or other Vatican officials other than the monsignor helped Mr. Frankel's scheme; Mark G. Califano, the assistant United States attorney who prosecuted the case, would not comment on the matter this afternoon. 
Lieutenants working for Mr. Frankel first approached the monsignor in mid-1998, while he visited a sister, cousin and other family members in Ohio, the confession said. They told him that Mr. Frankel wanted to make a "sizable" donation to the church and help its charities, including the Mother Teresa Hospital in Albania. He was arrested in August 2001 in suburban Cleveland as his family was preparing to attend a memorial Mass for his sister.
He is due in court again on Dec. 9 for a status hearing and, possibly, his sentencing by Judge Ellen Bree Burns of Federal District Court, who also presided in court today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); GUILTY PLEAS (92%); CONSPIRACY (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); SENTENCING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); FAMILY (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); INSURANCE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%) INSURANCE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; MONEY LAUNDERING; EMBEZZLEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; FRANKEL, MARTIN R; COLAGIOVANNI, EMILIO (MSGR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (78%) OHIO, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) HOLY SEE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (79%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



162 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Director of the United Way In Washington Steps Down 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
The embattled head of the scandal-ridden United Way of the National Capital Area, which serves the Washington metropolitan region, stepped down today, finally bowing to pressure from local critics and the demands of other officials in the United Way system.
 The resignation of the director, Norman O. Taylor, coincided with the completion of a report by a task force he created, which recommended, among other things, that the United Way affiliate eliminate a third of its work force, cut its budget by 41 percent and select a new auditor. 
 "The time has come for me to hand over the reins of the United Way of the National Capital Area and move on to a new chapter in my life," Mr. Taylor said in a statement. "This proud community organization deserves the opportunity to start anew." 
Mr. Taylor leaves an organization that is under investigation by federal prosecutors for possible financial mismanagement, including the artificial inflation of fund-raising totals, discriminatory pricing of services and excessive pension payments. The Department of Labor and the Office of Personnel Management are also looking into its affairs, as is Senator Charles E. Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over charitable groups.
The scrutiny, coupled with the scope of the purported mismanagement, has cast a shadow over the entire United Way, whose 1,400 local affiliates are just entering their peak fund-raising season.
A spokeswoman for the Washington United Way said she did not know if Mr. Taylor was receiving any sort of severance package.
Several people who have dealings with the group said yesterday that responsibility for the troubles should not rest solely with Mr. Taylor.
"I don't think this has been a fair situation for Mr. Taylor," said Ron Carlee, the manager of Arlington County, Va., who was a member of the task force. "There is absolutely no doubt in my mind, based on our research and what we have seen, that Mr. Taylor inherited an organization that was in deep trouble."
Mr. Carlee was echoed by Robert Eggers, executive director of the DC Central Kitchen, a soup kitchen supported by the Washington United Way. "At what level is this on Norm's shoulders and at what point is the board responsible?" Mr. Eggers asked. "I'm very much looking forward to hearing some evidence that this isn't going to be the end of their efforts to salvage the faith of the public."
Mr. Taylor also said he had inherited many problems, like the group's practice of inflating its fund-raising figures, which caused it to understate its overhead costs, and the "special deals" it cut with companies to keep them loyal.
His critics asked why he did not end those practices. During his 19-month tenure, the staff of the group grew to 90 members from 67, and its budget soared as Mr. Taylor hired consultants and five public relations firms to help deal with the crisis.
The task force recommended that the Washington United Way eliminate 30 staff positions and cut expenditures not related to the National Combined Federal Campaign, the fund-raiser it manages for federal workers, to $4.5 million from $7.6 million. 
Attention is also likely to shift to the Washington United Way's auditor, Councilor, Buchanan & Marshall. The board's first decision after receiving the task force's recommendations was to hire a new auditor.
The new auditor, McGladrey & Pullen, was one of five firms the task force suggested. Still, McGladrey has been criticized for an audit of the Washington United Way it did earlier this year that cleared the group of many accusations.
Later, it became clear that the audit had been sharply limited by Irving Kator, the Washington United Way's general counsel.
Mr. Taylor characterized his departure as a retirement. Two people who attended the board meeting quoted him as saying, "I'm going to work with Native Americans and young people."
He told the board he had learned about problems afflicting Indians when he played for the Minnesota Vikings football team for a year and a half and saw the plight of Indians living in Bemidji, Minn. He said a Crow Indian chief would soon be his guest in Washington.
A Vikings spokesman could find no record of Mr. Taylor's having played for the team. There was no response to a message left at the Crow Tribal Council office in Crow Agency, Mont., but the Indians living around Bemidji are Ojibwe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ETHICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); CHARITIES (67%) ETHICS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (55%) UNITED WAY 

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (50%) STROM, STEPHANIE; TAYLOR, NORMAN O 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



163 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2053 words

HEADLINE: A Foundation Travels Far From Sesame Street 

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
For much of the last century the Markle Foundation methodically built a reputation in education, culminating with its role in helping to start "Sesame Street." With a tiny staff, it attracted little publicity and hardly a whiff of controversy.
 Five years ago, that began to change with the arrival of its new president, Zoe Baird. Several years after her nomination for United States attorney general was scuttled over disclosures that she employed an illegal immigrant as a nanny and failed to pay Social Security taxes, Ms. Baird promised to remake Markle, which was once run by the banker J. P. Morgan Jr. 
 She vowed to turn the foundation into the conscience of the Internet, a force for good in children's media, health care and democracy itself. And do it in a hurry. In a break with the past, Ms. Baird promised to spend $100 million, or more than half of Markle's entire $187 million endowment, in just three to five years. 
Ms. Baird has certainly left her mark. But whether it is a good or a bad one is the subject of debate in the philanthropic world. Her board supports her, but many of those who worked for her do not. Ms. Baird has raised Markle's profile, but some of her most promoted projects have gone nowhere. So far, she has managed to spend only $40 million -- far short of her goal of $100 million because, her critics say, she can be indecisive, sometimes backing projects only to abandon them. As for the money Markle has spent, nearly half has gone to administrative costs, including salaries, consultants and public relations.
"They're missing in action," said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a public-interest advocacy group. He said that despite Markle's promises, the group had not done enough to represent the public in major Internet governance issues. "For the most part, the foundation seems to be doing nothing more than serving in a P.R. effort for Ms. Zoe Baird."
Ms. Baird disagrees. "We are trying to change a lot, and very fast," she said in an interview. "That's going to ruffle some feathers and that's O.K. I don't think we've hurt anybody. I think we've helped a lot of people, and I think we'll help a lot more."
Ms. Baird has had her share of accomplishments, including creating highly regarded task forces on national security and health. Supporters also praise her impressive intellect and enviable contacts with Fortune 500 executives and top government officials.
"She's taking risks to effect significant change," said Scott Harshbarger, chief executive of Common Cause, which has worked with Markle on Internet issues. James L. Barksdale, the former Netscape chief executive, says Ms. Baird is "highly regarded by people from all walks and she's been a pleasure to work with." But she is clearly feeling some pressure.
On Aug. 22, Julia Moffett, one of Ms. Baird's most trusted deputies and a former communications official in the Clinton White House, resigned under pressure after the foundation discovered that she had inflated her expense reports. She had previously been admonished for improperly charging personal expenses to the foundation.
Under Ms. Baird, Markle's staff of 43 has been shaken by the departure of 33 employees, most of whom she has replaced. Some of those who left complained of what they called paralyzing micromanagement and an obsession with image. "I felt like I was working in a dysfunctional organization that couldn't deliver on promises," said Steven Weber, a former senior adviser at Markle.
Edith C. Bjornson, a former Markle vice president, added, "The Markle Foundation no longer enjoys the respect and sterling reputation that it had for years."
Markle recently began asking some departing employees, none of whom had legal disputes, to agree in writing as part of their severance agreements not to speak out against the foundation. And staff members are instructed not to speak to Markle board members without first talking to Ms. Baird's deputy. Should any "inadvertent contact" with the board occur outside the building, staff members must send Ms. Baird an e-mail message "describing your encounter."
"I would resign from the board if I knew the executive director had set that policy," said Daniel Borochoff, president of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a watchdog organization in Bethesda, Md. "It does make you think, 'What is she trying to hide here?' "
Markle officials say they have nothing to hide, noting that employees are sometimes invited to join Ms. Baird in meetings with the board. Most of those employees are happy, they added, and staff turnover has its benefits. "A degree of staff change can be healthy for the organization, bringing in fresh ideas," said a spokesman, Peter Kerr. Written pledges not to speak against the foundation simply make good business sense, he added.
Any change in an old-line institution can be chafing to some. And keeping score in philanthropy -- where results may not be immediately apparent -- is hard. Also, the Internet business world Markle has pledged to influence has struggled since its boom several years ago.
Even so, the criticism of Ms. Baird is noteworthy because it emanates from not just former employees, but also from outside groups that are usually loath to criticize potential sources of financing.
Milton L. Mueller, an associate professor at Syracuse University who received a grant from Markle to study Internet issues, faults the foundation for a "lack of organization."
Spending by Markle officers has also been a source of criticism. While attending conferences, Ms. Baird or Ms. Moffett, her former chief planner, stayed at expensive hotels, including the Landmark London, the Imperial in Tokyo and the Chateau Marmont on Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood. And Markle paid nearly $10,000 to lodge a consultant for a month in the Royalton in New York. 
That kind of spending is frowned upon by some nonprofit groups and charity watchdog organizations. "They're not supposed to do deluxe stuff," said Pablo Eisenberg, a founder of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, an advocacy group.
Mr. Kerr, the Markle spokesman, said the foundation did not have time to find cheaper housing for the consultant. He also said that Markle officials stayed at high-priced hotels because conferences were usually held at them and that stricter travel guidelines were put in place last October. Ms. Moffett, who once ran the press office at NBC News, was rebuked for charging personal expenses to the foundation, including sea planes to the Hamptons; purchases at Saks Fifth Avenue; and a visit to Fifi La Roo, a spa in East Hampton, according to expense records and interviews with Markle officials.
Though that money was eventually paid back, Ms. Moffett resigned after Markle later determined she had also inflated expense accounts by about $1,000, Mr. Kerr said. The inquiry by Markle into Ms. Moffett's spending was in response to questions raised by The New York Times.
Mr. Kerr also said administrative costs were rising because Markle was changing from primarily a grant-making foundation with a small staff into one that needed more resources to run its own programs.
Ms. Baird's tenure contrasts sharply with that of her low-key predecessor, Lloyd N. Morrisett, who is revered in the philanthropic world for helping to create the Children's Television Workshop.
Mr. Morrisett transformed Markle, founded by the coal baron John Markle and his wife, Mary, from an endowment that primarily gave money to medical education to one that focused on "the educational uses of the mass media."
But some board members wondered whether Markle was getting all the credit it deserved.
With Mr. Morrisett's retirement in 1998, the appointment of Ms. Baird, a former lawyer for Aetna and General Electric, gave Markle more prominence in corporate America and on Capitol Hill. 
"Just because of her stature we felt that she could lead the program better than any of the other candidates," said Joel L. Fleishman, the chairman of Markel, who strongly supports Ms. Baird.
Ms. Baird, who earned a base salary last year of $432,000, attracted a well-credentialed staff, and paid them well. Before Ms. Baird, Markle's best-paid staff member earned $117,000 a year. Now Markle dangles annual salaries of $225,000 and up, substantially more than some similarly endowed New York foundations. Ms. Baird also moved Markle to bigger offices in Rockefeller Center, budgeting $2.1 million for architectural, design and equipment upgrades, records show.
Right away, Ms. Baird wanted projects that could quickly put Markle back on the media map, former staff members said. She found one in Oxygen Media.
Markle said it would join with Oxygen, a cable television and Internet network for women started by the former president of Nickelodeon, Geraldine Laybourne, in partnership with, among others, Oprah Winfrey. Markle agreed to spend $3.5 million on a project called Oxygen/Markle Pulse that would poll women on major issues, then post results on a Web site.
"Why would you give $3.5 million of philanthropic money to somebody who had just raised hundreds of millions of dollars?" asked a former senior staff member.
Ms. Baird said she simply wanted to encourage a private company to act in the public interest. Markle spent $660,000 before the Web site was dismantled, partly because Oxygen changed its Internet strategy. Ms. Baird said the project would soon be revived in a different form.
Markle also pledged $2 million to the Advertising Council for spots encouraging parents to use the Internet with their children. But after Markle spent $220,000 and many hours of staff time, that project died when Markle and the Advertising Council could not agree on what the advertisements would say.
The same fate befell a $3 million project with Consumers Union that would have helped parents evaluate interactive media for children. Markle spent $150,000 before deciding that project lacked impact.
"Initiatives seemed to fall into a black hole and nothing seemed to come of them," said Mr. Weber, the former Markle adviser.
Andrew Blau, an Internet policy expert, said he quit Markle in disappointment. "It was very hard to do the things I was excited about," Mr. Blau said.
Ms. Baird said it was better to stop a project that was not working than to continue it. "If people felt they had to go back to the drawing board and rethink something because it didn't meet our standards, I'm certainly not troubled by that," she said.
Besides, Ms. Baird said, Markle has had plenty of successes. It took the lead in financing and overseeing the first public elections for a major Internet governing body, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. During the 2000 presidential campaign, it won praise for building a network of Web sites that educated voters about the election. 
Also, to help developing countries better use technology, the federal government picked Markle to represent American nonprofit groups on a task force of government, companies and nonprofit interests from around the world. Markle is doing similar work with the United Nations.
In the health field, Ms. Baird has assembled a panel to hasten the use of the Internet by hospitals, patients and insurers.
Still, not everyone is impressed.
"With enough money anyone can start a task force and get people together," Mr. Weber, the former adviser, said. "What matters is what the product is."
And Markle critics bemoan what they see as the foundation's lagging interest in its legacy of helping children's media. Although Ms. Baird said the foundation was only reassessing its mission, partly because the toy companies it wanted to work with were suffering in the bad economy, the foundation has dismissed two of its three staff members working in children's media.
"The sense I got was that the kids' program didn't offer the opportunity for high-profile, sexy policy making," said Douglas Rushkoff, a novelist who often writes about the Internet and has been an adviser to Markle on children's projects. Mr. Rushkoff, who said Markle treated him well, believes that the children's program could not compete with new efforts like a task force on technology and national security. 
"It didn't seem like a program capable of generating the kind of profile and buzz of an antiterrorism team," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about changes at the Markle Foundation, which helped start "Sesame Street," misstated the headquarters location of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a watchdog group, whose president commented on the changes. It is in Chicago, not Bethesda, Md.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoe Baird, right, president of the Markle Foundation, and Julia Moffett, her chief planner who resigned under pressure. (Daniela Stallinger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (56%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (56%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (59%); FOUNDATION CENTER (59%) MARKLE FOUNDATION; CENTER FOR DIGITAL DEMOCRACY; COMMON CAUSE (ORGN); NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS 

PERSON: RUTENBERG, JIM; BAIRD, ZOE; MOFFETT, JULIA; CHESTER, JEFFREY; HARSHBARGER, SCOTT; BARKSDALE, JAMES L; BJORNSON, EDITH C 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



164 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: THE REGION; 
Arabs, by Degrees, Oppose American Attack on Iraq

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
The Arab League warned the Bush administration today against attacking Iraq, but the public display of unanimity masked degrees of opposition to an attack, diplomats said at the end of a two day gathering of Arab foreign ministers.
 The ministers had been expected to call formally on Iraq to readmit United Nations weapons inspectors, but a resolution at the end of the meeting, which included Iraq's foreign minister, Naji Sabri Ahmad al-Hadithi, failed to mention inspectors. 
 In an effort to keep up the appearance of consensus while the Iraqi was present, the closed-door meetings were devoted as much if not more to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as to Iraq, diplomats said.
Later, Mr. Hadithi expressed his gratitude to the group, saying, "We are pleased all Arab countries express total rejection of the aggressive intentions of the United States." 
The secretary general of the league, Amr Moussa, who is known for his flamboyant language, said at a news conference that American military action against Iraq would "open the gates of hell in the Middle East because you can never tell the results." 
Mr. Moussa was reflecting what one diplomat called "a genuine concern" that the Bush administration was intent not only on striking against Baghdad but also on remaking the map of the Middle East. According to this view, he said, pro-Israeli American officials believe that an attack on Iraq would lead to the capitulation not only of the Iraqis, but of the Palestinians, too.
It was left to Mr. Moussa, a former Egyptian foreign minister, who spoke after most of the ministers had left the headquarters, to say that the members supported the return of the weapons inspectors.
Underlying the reluctance to deal head-on with the Iraqi situation were the differences among the ministers, participants said. Some represent important regional allies whose bases are essential for the Bush administration to conduct a war against Baghdad.
Saudi Arabia, whose bases were used as a staging ground in the Persian Gulf war in 1991, has said its soil cannot be used again for an assault on Iraq. The Saudis feel far less pressure from Iraq this time than they did in 1990, when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait and threatened the Saudi oil fields, diplomats said.
Of all Washington's Arab allies, economically weak Jordan feels the most exposed by the war plans against Iraq. Jordan has publicly stated that it will not allow the United States to position troops on its territory for an attack.
About half the population in Jordan is Palestinian, and an American assault against Iraq would certainly roil the Palestinians. Further complicating Jordan's situation is the presence of a large number of Iraqis. Under an exception granted by the United Nations after the 1991 war, Jordan buys most of its oil from Iraq and about 25 percent of Jordan's exports go to Iraq. 
Ruled in 1991 by King Hussein, Jordan did not join the international coalition against Iraq. Under his son and successor, King Abdullah, it is not clear what route Jordan would take in the event of an attack, but Western diplomats expressed doubt that the king would tacitly side with Iraq, as his father did.
In contrast, Qatar has allowed the Bush administration to quietly position forces there and extend an air base for possible use as a command post for airstrikes against Iraq. 
The government of Qatar has made it clear, though, that it would like Baghdad to allow the return of weapons inspectors. 
The overwhelming message for the Iraqi foreign minister, an Arab diplomat said today, was that in order to sustain the public support that Iraq had won today, Mr. Hussein had to allow the inspectors back. --------------------

Al Qaeda Interviews to Air
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, Sept. 5 (AP) -- The Arab television network Al Jazeera said today that it will broadcast interviews with two Al Qaeda members who admit to helping plan and carry out the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States.
Al Jazeera said that Khalid Shaikh Mohammed -- a close associate of the presumed mastermind of the attacks, Mohammed Atta -- and Ramzi Omar, also known as Ramzi Binalshibh, who is one of the highest-ranking Al Qaeda members and one of the most wanted fugitives in the world, were interviewed recently at a secret location, but did not elaborate further.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraq's foreign minister, Naji Sabri Ahmad al-Hadithi, at the Arab League talks in Cairo yesterday. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (94%); UNITED NATIONS (58%) ARAB LEAGUE 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) PERLEZ, JANE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HADITHI, NAJI SABRI AHMAD AL- (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); JORDAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); EGYPT (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



165 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: A War on Iraq? Voices From a Rising Debate 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "A Wider Role in Afghanistan" (editorial, Sept. 2) raises issues for post-conflict Iraq that require consideration. A seamless military, political and economic campaign is required, not just to unseat a dictator, but to replace the system that produced him with a viable alternative -- successful democratic governance. 
 Therein lies the United States' conundrum. We can conduct a successful military campaign alone, but a coordinated long-term international effort will be needed to ensure permanent success. And if allies are vital in the long term, we may want them with us at the beginning. 
Many regional players and potential partners feel more secure with an ambiguous status quo than with any resolution that could lead to regional upheaval. We will be cultivating a new political system in the midst of states that feel threatened by democracy and will try to undermine it.
Saddam Hussein must go, and we can accomplish that task. The harder mission is to cement democracy and remake Iraq so that dictators of his ilk cannot re-emerge.

GORDON R. SULLIVAN
Arlington, Va., Sept. 4, 2002

The writer, president of the Association of the United States Army, was Army chief of staff, 1991-95.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) SULLIVAN, GORDON R 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) IRAQ; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



166 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Trade Group Predicts Strong Sales

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER with STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
In another sign of the improved advertising economy, a trade association is predicting stronger sales of commercial time on local broadcast television stations for the next two years.
 At a conference yesterday in New York, Chris Rohrs, president at the Television Bureau of Advertising, forecast that revenue for what is known as local spot advertising would increase 1 percent to 3 percent next year compared with this year and then increase in 2004 by 7 percent to 9 percent compared with 2003. Mr. 
Rohrs attributed the upbeat projections to "the resiliency of the American economy in general and the television broadcasting industry in particular." 
 The forecast was made a day after Hearst-Argyle Television, which owns 24 local broadcast stations and manages 3 others, raised its financial outlook for the third quarter because ad revenue for the quarter was stronger than the company had initially expected. Also, the Jack Myers Report, in its advertising confidence survey released yesterday, reported that media and advertising executives said they thought their industries had partly or mostly recovered from recent revenue declines.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: HEARST TELEVISION INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: TELEVISION BUREAU OF ADVERTISING (84%) TELEVISION BUREAU OF ADVERTISING 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%)

PERSON: ROHRS, CHRISTOPHER; CARTER, BILL; ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



167 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
To Congress: Show Unity With Dollars

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
DEAR Members of Congress:
 Welcome back to New York. It may have taken 212 years, but you've finally returned to your first home, not to mention to the source of a disproportionate amount of the cash that you spend. 
 More on the money later. We know that has nothing to do with why you have come back today to the place you seduced and abandoned in 1790. 
By the way, no hard feelings about jilting us. We understand the financial and political machinations that impelled the entire United States government to give up on New York as the capital in favor of Philadelphia, briefly, and then that drained swamp on the Potomac.
Don't give it a moment's thought. We're over it. Really.
The important thing is that you've returned, even if only for a few hours.
Scores of you will gather this morning for a special joint session in Federal Hall, at Wall and Nassau Streets, on the very site where George Washington was inaugurated and where you used to convene in the good old days. Word is that, with the Sept. 11 anniversary upon us, you will pass a resolution expressing solidarity with New York City and vowing to keep up the fight against terrorism.
Hear, hear! Or, as you will find to be more common on the streets of New York: that's cool.
It will not surprise you to learn that a lot has changed in Lower Manhattan since your last regular session here on Aug. 12, 1790.
Trinity Church is still up the block, at Broadway and Wall, but the building you may remember from 1790 had structural flaws and was knocked down 50 years or so later to make room for the Gothic Revival beauty that you now see. Fraunces Tavern is also still there, on Pearl Street, in case the speechifying gets dreary and you want to slip out for victuals and grog.
But you won't find much else that is recognizable. Even your own name is slightly different from what it was two centuries ago. In the typographical style of that time, it looked more like Congrefs. Remember? We do, as though it were yefterday.
Listen, we know that you have come on a solemn matter, and we don't mean to be crass, but could we talk business for a minute? 
If all goes as planned, you are arriving as a group by train. That means you will have walked through Pennsylvania Station. Take a good look. Not quite the splendiferous Union Station in Washington, is it? The original, and glorious, Penn Station was torn down nearly 40 years ago, one of the great urban crimes of the century. It was replaced by the cave-like warren you have just seen. Even Al Qaeda might find it depressing.
There are plans, championed for years by former Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, to build a new Penn Station across the street, in the colonnaded General Post Office on Eighth Avenue. As long as you're showing solidarity, is there no way to nudge the Postal Service and other agencies to finally make this happen?
Then there's that matter of, ahem, money. Not the billions to help us recover from the attack on the World Trade Center. You've done fine on that score. Besides, who wants to risk having the president's budget director call us money-grubbers again?
NO, this is the permanent balance of payments problem that New York State has with the federal government. Like some other states, New York receives far less each year from Washington than it sends in taxes. As the economic engine of this state, New York City feels the pinch more than most.
This transfer of wealth endlessly irked Senator Moynihan. The last of his yearly reports on the subject, which relied on 1999 statistics sifted and weighed by the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, put New York State's deficit at $16.2 billion.
"I'd send the report around the government," Mr. Moynihan said the other day, "but I wouldn't even get a postcard back."
A research group called the Public Policy Institute, using different analytical methods, paints an even grimmer picture. In 2000, it said, New York State was a loser by $47.3 billion.
Either way, we're talking serious dollars. It is why, when the special Congressional session was mentioned to E.J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, he could not resist saying that "for the first time in 200 years they're coming to check out where a lot of their money comes from."
Of course, dear members of Congress, no one is about to rattle a cup in front of you at Federal Hall. That would be unseemly. All this is mentioned merely in the spirit of unity that is the agenda today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (87%); WAR ON TERROR (71%); TRENDS (70%); HIJACKING (70%); AL-QAEDA (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TRAINS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



168 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: The Bully's Pulpit 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength. Colin Powell and Dick Cheney are in perfect agreement. And the Bush administration won't privatize Social Security.
 Ari Fleischer's insistence that Mr. Powell and Mr. Cheney have no differences over Iraq seems to have pushed some journalists into facing up, at least briefly, to the obvious. ABC's weblog The Note described it as a "chocolate-is-vanilla" claim, admitting that "The Bush team has always had a credibility problem with some reporters because of their insistence on saying 'up is down' and 'black is white.' " 
 But the administration needn't worry; if history is any guide, many reporters will soon return to their usual cringe. The next time the administration insists that chocolate is vanilla, much of the media -- fearing accusations of liberal bias, trying to create the appearance of "balance" -- won't report that the stuff is actually brown; at best they'll report that some Democrats claim that it's brown.
The Bush team's Orwellian propensities have long been apparent to anyone following its pronouncements on economics. Even during campaign 2000 these pronouncements relied on doublethink, the ability to believe two contradictory things at the same time. For example, George W. Bush's plan to partially privatize Social Security always depended on the assertion that 2-1=4 -- that we can divert payroll taxes into high-yielding personal accounts, yet still use the same money to pay benefits to retirees.
The Orwellian tactics don't stop with doublethink; they also include newspeak, the redefinition of words to rule out disloyal thoughts. Again, Social Security is a perfect example. Republican political consultants have found that in an era of plunging stocks and corporate scandal the word "privatization" has taken on negative connotations. The answer? Deny that personal accounts constitute privatization, and bully the press into going along. A Republican National Campaign Committee memo lays out the new strategy: "It is very important that we not allow reporters to shill for Democrat demagoguery by inaccurately characterizing 'personal accounts' and 'privatization' as one and the same."
Is it inaccurate to say that personal accounts equal privatization? We could argue on the merits. Under the Bush plan, a worker's personal account reflects any gains or losses on the stocks it represents. When risks and rewards accrue entirely to the individual, isn't that privatization? 
But wait, we can do better. The push to convert Social Security into a system of personal accounts has been led by the Cato Institute. The Bush plan emerged directly from Cato's project on the subject, several members of Mr. Bush's commission on Social Security reform had close Cato ties, and much of the commission's staff came straight from Cato. You can read all about Cato's role on the special Web site the institute set up, socialsecurity.org.
And what's the name of the Cato project to promote personal accounts? Why, the Project on Social Security Privatization, of course.
Which brings us back to the issue of intimidation. The R.N.C.C. doesn't really think it can convince people that privatization isn't privatization. But that's not the goal. The memo doesn't talk about how to communicate with the public; it's a list of demands to place on journalists. As Joshua Marshall put it at talkingpointsmemo.com, the goal is to "mau-mau reporters out of using the word 'privatization' in this context."
And the intimidation will probably succeed. Indeed, it's already working. As Mr. Marshall notes, in a recent interview of the House minority leader, Richard Gephardt, Judy Woodruff of CNN duly echoed the R.N.C.C.'s memo.
Unfortunately, this isn't just a question of Social Security policy. Once an administration believes that it can get away with insisting that black is white and up is down -- and everything in this administration's history suggests that it believes just that -- it's hard to see where the process stops. A habit of ignoring inconvenient reality, and presuming that the docile media will go along, soon infects all aspects of policy. And yes, that includes matters of war and peace. 
The trouble is that eventually reality has a way of asserting itself. And in case you are wondering, ignorance isn't strength. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); LIBERALISM (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (56%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (50%); SCANDALS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); PRIVATIZATION 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



169 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Earth Fit for Development 

 BODY:
The 10-day World Summit on Sustainable Development, which concluded on Wednesday in Johannesburg, angered both environmentalists and those who dismiss multilateral accords as so much globaloney. But by any standard -- let alone the often debased one of United Nations-sponsored meetings -- the gathering was honorable and reasonably successful. The agreements that were reached on ways to fight poverty while reducing environmental degradation can make a meaningful difference if the nations of the world work seriously to enforce them. 
 The conference was diminished by the unenthusiastic participation of the United States. President Bush, alone among major world leaders, decided not to go (although he did send Secretary of State Colin Powell for a brief stop and speech). The United States, which emits 25 percent of the world's greenhouse gases, joined the OPEC oil cartel (in what one critic called an "axis of oil") to oppose clear and binding targets to increase the use of solar and wind power. By acting as a spoiler on some issues, Washington missed an opportunity to display the kind of leadership that would help it in its other international pursuits. 
 It's not as if the issues addressed by the conference were marginal ones. The delegates grappled with such basic problems as the fact that more than 13,000 people die each day from water-related diseases, more than 80 countries have per capita incomes lower than they were a decade ago, and some 2.4 billion people live without sanitation. Also on the agenda was the grim reality that land degradation from deforestation, waste disposal and overuse of fertilizers has rendered a third of the earth's soil unfit for growing food. 
The meeting did not come up with instant solutions, but it did offer a conceptual framework and a series of targets for how to go about reducing health and environmental problems in the coming decade or two while promoting economic growth. In fact, the simple recognition that economic development and environmental protection can work in tandem may be the summit's greatest contribution. Lack of sanitation means not only soiling the environment but increased human disease and poverty. Agreeing to halve the number of people without sanitation by 2015 -- as the meeting did -- makes both environmental and economic sense.
Another wise move was the inclusion of corporations and nongovernmental organizations in the discussion. There may be no more efficient way to cut pollution, fight disease and reduce inequities in trade and aid than to include those participants who are major players and often former adversaries. AIDS will be conquered only with the help of drug companies. Nonetheless, the key will be governmental compliance. The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, said there would be monitoring of goals and annual reports. Such follow-up is crucial. Without it, we may not only run out of fossil fuel. We may run out of time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (89%); LAND DEGRADATION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); CARTELS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); DEFORESTATION (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%); FERTILIZERS (63%); SOLAR ENERGY (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ENVIRONMENT; WORLD SUMMIT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



170 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: THE BUDGET; 
New Study on Antiterror Spending Is Fodder for Rival Camps

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
The federal government has spent nearly $37 billion in response to the Sept. 11 attacks and is on track to spend more than 10 times that much to counter terrorism over the next decade, a study by the Congressional Budget Office has found.
 The study, the most comprehensive government effort to identify the direct costs of the stepped-up effort to deal with terrorism, did not seek to put a price tag on any war with Iraq. Its findings were in line with earlier and less thorough cost estimates. 
 But Democrats seized on the figures as evidence that new spending on security means that the government faces deficits and painful tradeoffs because President Bush's tax cuts have consumed so much of the projected budget surplus. 
Bush administration officials said the figures buttressed their case that Congress, and Democrats in particular, had to do more to keep spending on nondefense programs in check to avert uncontrolled growth in the deficit.
The additional spending, estimated under one set of assumptions at $443 billion over the next decade, or an average of more than $40 billion a year, amounts to about 2 percent of the overall federal budget of $2 trillion a year. It comes to more than 5 percent of the discretionary budget, that part that excludes predetermined costs like interest payments on the national debt and programs like Social Security.
Democrats said the figures undermined Mr. Bush's contention that the bad economy and the costs of the war, not his tax cuts, were the primary reasons for the drop in the projected budget surplus.
The surplus, estimated last year at $5.6 trillion for the 10 years from 2002 through 2011, is now forecast to be $336 billion for the same period and $1 trillion for the decade starting next year. 
Using the budget office's spending estimates, about 10 percent of the decline in the surplus through 2011 would be directly attributable to costs of fighting terrorism. The tax cut, at $1.3 trillion over 10 years, would account for about a quarter of the drop in the surplus. Economic and technical changes and increased interest payments made up the rest.
"The cost of 9/11 is a small fraction of the total deterioration of the surplus," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina, who requested the study from the budget office. "It is not, however, a small number. It will require tradeoffs, particularly in a budget where the administration left no cushion for the unexpected."
Administration officials said that several factors had contributed to the decline of the surplus and that Democrats seemed intent on raising both spending and taxes, a combination they said would hurt the economy.
"Sept. 11 and the recession and the war on terrorism were of course a big portion of what happened to the surplus," Amy Call, a spokeswoman for the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said. "What we are sure about is that if we don't control spending, we will remain in deficit."
The budget office's figures are based on actual outlays by the government since Sept. 11 and an assumption that Mr. Bush's requests for additional money for next year will be granted by Congress and grow at the rate of inflation for the rest of the decade. Congress is still working on the spending bills for next year, but appears likely to give Mr. Bush all the money he is seeking for the Pentagon and domestic security.
The budget office said it looked only at spending above what Congress and the administration had already been considering in those areas before Sept. 11.
It estimated, for example, that $13.5 billion of Mr. Bush's request for $27 billion in nonmilitary spending for next year to counter terrorism represented money beyond what the administration would otherwise have been seeking. It said new Pentagon spending in response to terrorism amounted to $24 billion.
The growth in spending on fighting terrorism has contributed to one of the largest surges in the size of the federal government in decades.
Brian M. Riedl, a fellow at the Heritage Foundation, the conservative research group, said the four fiscal years through 2003 were on track to be one of the periods of the highest spending in American history and that there was so far little political pressure to curb spending on either national security or social programs.
"Republicans and Democrats basically make a deal with each other -- 'I'll vote for your increase if you'll vote for my increase,"' Mr. Riedl said. "As long as voters don't seem intent on punishing politicians for budget deficits, both parties feel they are in the clear.
"So far, voters haven't made waves over the budget deficit because they feel it is a result of recession and war."
Mr. Riedl said the situation would change if Democrats sought to roll back Mr. Bush's tax cut, because voters would then feel penalized for the deficits.
Democrats continue to press the case that Mr. Bush is responsible for the deterioration of the government's fiscal condition because of his tax cut and that voters will pay the price not just in deficits but also in foregone opportunities to deal with problems like the long-term solvency of Social Security and the growing burden of prescription drug costs for the elderly.
Democrats on the Senate Budget Committee released an analysis today to support their assertion that the tax cut had been the single biggest contributor to the dimunition of the surplus.
The analysis found levels of spending on fighting terrorism similar to those in the budget office's report, and concluded that the costs of responding to Sept. 11 accounted for 11 percent of the decline in the surplus.
"By comparison," the analysis said, "tax cuts enacted since January 2001 account for $1.8 trillion (including associated interest costs) of the foregone surplus over the 10-year time period, or roughly three times the amount attributed to the attacks of Sept. 11."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Costs of Response to Sept. 11"A new Congressional study of federal spending related to the Sept. 11 attacks finds that the government has spent $37 billion so far, and may spend $443 billion over the next 10 years. Increased government spending related to Sept. 11 attacksEstimates for the fiscal years shown Graph shows the estimated increased government spending related to Sept. 11 attacks. Breakdown of increased spending over 10 yearsFiscal years 2003 to 2012 Nonmilitary: $146 billionAdditional spending in legislation already passed: $37 billionMilitary: $260.3 billionTOTAL: $443.4 billion Figures do not add to total because of rounding. (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN SPRATT (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



171 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Disappointed By Raises, Officers Praise Their Union 

BYLINE:  By JACOB H. FRIES 

 BODY:
When city police officers faced disappointing contracts in the past, they did not hesitate to blame their union leaders. In interviews this week, after an arbitration panel awarded them 11.75 percent raises -- half what the union had sought -- they were again disheartened. But this time they are not blaming their leaders.
 Rather, in light of their Sept. 11 sacrifices and their success in pushing crime rates lower, the officers said they felt abandoned -- by the arbitration panel, by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and by the city as a whole. 
 Most said they supported the union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, and its president, Patrick J. Lynch, who won the job in 1998 amid widespread dissatisfaction among the rank and file. His decision to take the contract dispute to the State Public Employment Relations Board won praise, even though the result was not as successful as had been hoped.
"At least the union took some chances," said a 29-year-old officer in Midtown Manhattan who would not give his name. "They didn't stick to the old boys' network. The problem was, the cards were stacked against them." 
With striking unanimity, the officers who were interviewed said they were grateful that the union had, in their view, outmaneuvered Mayor Bloomberg to defeat a proposal that the mayor had supported and the panel had considered. The proposal would have required officers to work 10 extra days a year, in return for slightly shorter shifts and larger raises of 14 percent.
"I don't think it's right that we're put in a position to have to choose between money and family," said an officer from the 78th Precinct in Brooklyn who refused to give his name. 
Rank-and-file officers said they had been prepared for disappointment, adding that they never believed their union would actually win a 21.9 percent raise for the city's 24,000 police officers.
With preparations under way to honor their 23 colleagues killed at the World Trade Center, several said the timing could not be worse. Praise for heroes and the work they did on Sept. 11 rings hollow these days, they said. Many argued that the department's sacrifices on Sept. 11 justified a larger raise; others said they felt uncomfortable evoking the terrorist attack during talk of wages.
"It seems like 9/11 didn't matter at all," said Officer Vinny Gaglione, 34, shaking his head. A 16-year veteran assigned to the 123rd Precinct in Staten Island, Officer Gaglione said he suspected that details of the new contract were purposely released this week, between Labor Day and Sept. 11, so that police officers had no time to organize a protest. 
"It seems like they made up their minds a long time ago not to give us the raise we deserve," Officer Gaglione said.
The new raises are retroactive to the period covered by the long-delayed contract, from July 2000 to July of this year, and the officers will receive lump-sum payments for two years of missed raises, including overtime. Union leaders said the deal was significant because it breaks the tradition of pattern bargaining, under which the city negotiates virtually the same pay raises with all its unions. City Hall officials dispute that interpretation.
The union and the city will have to begin bargaining again almost immediately for a contract to cover the years going forward. Many police officers remained optimistic that one day, perhaps during an upturn in the economy, they would earn salaries comparable to those earned by police officers on Long Island and in New Jersey. 
"We just have to keep at it and the next one will be better," said a police officer who works in Brooklyn. "We weren't given much of a chance this time around."
Before the award, the starting salary for city police officers was $31,305, far less than their suburban counterparts earn and 20 percent less than officers in Newark are paid. Their top base pay after 20 years was $49,023. The city's new officers will start at $34,514, and after 20 years their top base pay will be $54,048.
Most officers who were interviewed said they would refuse any raise in the future that was tied to extra workdays. Many said they were waiting for the city to concede something first, in a show of good faith, before they would consider a productivity change.
"As along as Bloomberg's sentiment is that we have to give back, then it's not going to change," said an officer from the 70th Precinct who was assigned to the security detail in Times Square for yesterday's National Football League celebration. "We don't have anything else to give back." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CRIME RATES (73%); TERRORISM (71%); US LABOR DAY (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) POLICE; WAGES AND SALARIES; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; WORKING HOURS 

ORGANIZATION: PATROLMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSN; PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS BOARD (NYS) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (75%) FRIES, JACOB H; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); LYNCH, PATRICK J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



172 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: New Jump in Joblessness Favors Challenger in German Race 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
With Germany's election campaign now apparently a dead heat, new economic data released today blew the way of Edmund Stoiber, the conservative challenger to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder. The figures showed that unemployment rose to a three-year high and factory orders and retail sales fell unexpectedly in July.
 The number of jobless people rose by 2,000 from the month before to 4.1 million. The rise was less than the 15,000 expected by many economists, and unemployment actually fell by 7,000 in the depressed east, where the government put unemployed people to work cleaning up after last month's calamitous floods. 
 This was enough for Mr. Schroder to declare that the report offered "a sign of hope." Mr. Stoiber preferred to characterize it as "a day of truth and failure" for the chancellor's economic policies. 
Most analysts agreed that Mr. Schroder would be hurt by the stubbornly high unemployment. During his first campaign, he declared that he did not deserve a second term if the number of jobless did not fall below 3.5 million.
"This election will be decided by people who are afraid of being laid off," said Reinhard Schlinkert, the chairman of Dimap, a polling firm. "The general mood of the electorate is poor."
Retail sales, a barometer of consumer confidence, declined 1.7 percent in July from the comparable month last year. Economists had expected a slight upturn, based on reports from merchants. 
In the industrial sector, Germany is feeling a pinch from the American economy. Factory orders fell 0.9 percent in July, much of it accounted for by a 2 percent decline in export orders, mostly from the United States. 
"The drop in orders and retail sales is a real concern, because it indicates there is little or no momentum in the German economy," said David Walton, the chief European economist at Goldman Sachs. 
Mr. Schroder's Social Democratic Party got a badly needed lift in opinion polls last month after the chancellor's energetic response to severe floods. But even before today's economic news, Mr. Schlinkert said, there was evidence that the lift would be short-lived. 
A poll released by Dimap today showed support for the Social Democrats eroding a bit, to 38 percent. Mr. Stoiber's Christian Democratic Party also slipped, but remained ahead of the Social Democrats by one point.
"The floods were important for Schroder to activate his own party members," Mr. Schlinkert said. "But on the question of who is more competent to manage the economy, nothing has changed."
Mr. Stoiber is the premier of Bavaria, which has one of the lowest unemployment rates in Germany: 5.9 percent, compared to 9.9 percent in the nation as a whole, up from 9.8 percent in July.
However, the number of unemployed people in Bavaria grew by 19.5 percent last month, more in percentage terms than in any other German state. Some economists say Bavaria is suffering because job seekers are flocking to the state from eastern Germany just as Bavaria's industries are flagging.
Germany's economic woes have widened its budget deficit and put the country on a potential collision course with the European Union. The government said this week that its deficit in the first half of the year was $35.7 billion, or 3.5 percent of gross domestic product.
If the gap remains above 3 percent for the year, it will breach the ceiling set by treaty for the 12 members of the monetary union. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNEMPLOYMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) LANDLER, MARK; STOIBER, EDMUND; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



173 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: POLITICAL MEMO; 
With Focus Shifting to Iraq, Domestic Issues Fade

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
The prospect of weeks of debate in Congress about granting President Bush the authority to oust Saddam Hussein means that events abroad, rather than the domestic issues pushed by Democrats this summer, could dominate the nation's political discussion for easily half of the general election campaign this fall.
 Several Republicans said today that the focus on Iraq would serve the political needs of their party going into the close Congressional elections. 
 Democrats, in a clear sign of concern, have begun in recent days to speak out on the merits of an invasion, though some worried that they were playing into Republican hands by doing so.
Although setting the agenda in a political debate is typically the first step toward victory, leaders from both parties said they had seen no evidence that voters are ready for war in Iraq, or that any member of Congress would be hurt by opposing Mr. Bush on this. While Republicans may have gained a tactical advantage by moving the nation's attention beyond its borders, even Republicans said they had seen no evidence that a debate over military intervention would affect the outcome of this Congressional contest. 
Thus, the critical question now may not be the outcome of the debate about Iraq, but rather how long it lasts -- and when, or if, the Democrats can turn it back to the home turf.
"The public has not been convinced," said Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois, recounting conversations he had with constituents before Congress returned from its summer recess this week. "First, they don't see a correlation to Sept. 11 and Iraq. And second, they are unsure of the threat."
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the moderate Connecticut Democrat who has advocated removing Mr. Hussein for more than a decade, said that when he was home, he found "most people wanted to talk about the economy." He added that "when they wanted to talk about Iraq, one of the things that bothers them is that our allies are not with us."
For the most part, Democrats today shied away from suggesting that Mr. Bush had moved to force a vote on Capitol Hill to affect the course of the Congressional campaigns this fall. Even so, by design or not, Mr. Bush's decision to push the vote has shaken up the election landscape in a way that leaders of both parties were trying to assess.
There was agreement among leaders of both parties today that a debate about war in Iraq is likely to shift attention from the domestic issues -- with which Democrats believe they can win control of both houses of Congress -- to national security, an issue on which the Republican party has traditionally enjoyed an advantage.
The discourse over war seems likely as well to highlight what is emerging as a sharp contrast between the urgency of Mr. Bush, as he pushes to remove Mr. Hussein, and the tentativeness of the Democrats about what, if anything, to do in Baghdad.
"The public has a greater confidence right now in this president and in the Republican Party on issues of foreign policy and homeland security than they do the Democratic Party," said Representative Thomas M. Davis III, chairman of the committee responsible for keeping the House under Republican control in November.
That was a matter of concern for some Democrats today. "For the last several months, we were talking about health care and Social Security and domestic issues," one official said. "And now we're talking about Iraq."
But in a reflection of polls that suggest Americans remain uncertain about an invasion of Iraq, Mr. Davis laughed today when asked if he had talked to his members to get a sense of Republicans in Congress about an intervention.
"You don't need to talk to them," he said. "You can just look at their public statements. You've got Larry Craig of Idaho saying he's not sure we should be going in there." 
Republicans said that they expected national security to remain a recurring issue in the fall campaigns, even after Congress adjourns.
"It is perfectly fair game to talk about national security records," said Mitch Bainwol, the executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. "We'll see these issues gain salience as we get closer to the election."
Some members of both parties predicted that, in the end, most of Congress would back a resolution authorizing Mr. Bush to act.
"By the time the president makes the case over the next few days, there will be overwhelming support for action," said Representative Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri.
Such an outcome would, presumably, make it that much more difficult for Republicans to use Iraq as an issue to differentiate themselves from Democrats this fall. Still, if Republicans are seeking to run out the clock on the Democrats -- which is what many Democrats think is going on -- the debate unfolding on Capitol Hill would seem, by design or not, to serve that end.
"There is some real skepticism in the Senate Democratic caucus about the sudden urgency of the situation," said James Jordan, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. "Obviously, the White House has plenty of incentive to try to change the subject this late in the election cycle."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush spoke yesterday at a South Bend, Ind., rally after arriving on Air Force One, a day after saying he would seek approval from Congress before ordering action against Iraq. The issue could dominate political discussion for much of the general election campaign this fall. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (69%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JOHN SHIMKUS (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (59%) INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



174 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Karzai Nearly Killed; Bomb in Kabul Kills 25
A uniformed gunman on the streets of Kandahar, Afghanistan, narrowly failed in an assassination attempt on President Hamid Karzai hours after a huge car bomb in Kabul killed at least 25 people and critically injured dozens of others. Afghan officials immediately blamed terrorists linked to Al Qaeda and the Taliban, though they had no evidence of that. The gunman was killed by members of an American Special Operations team serving as Mr. Karzai's bodyguards. A1

Congress Plans for Iraq Talks
A day after President Bush agreed to seek Congressional approval before any invasion, legislative leaders said they would undertake weeks of hearings and debate on whether to support military action against Iraq, a move that could push a final vote until after the elections. A1

Changes in Iraq, Photos Show
A team of weapons inspectors, studying satellite photography, has identified several nuclear-related sites in Iraq where new construction or other unexplained changes have occurred since the last international inspections nearly four years ago. A12

Warning From Arab League
The Arab League warned the Bush administration against attacking Iraq, but the public display of unanimity masked degrees of opposition to an attack, diplomats said at a two-day gathering of foreign ministers. A12

Trial Begins in Israel
The opening of the trial of Marwan Barghouti proved tempestuous, with his children struggling to reach him while Israelis shouted in rage. The session was meant to be a procedural recitation of the charges against Mr. Barghouti, the leader of the Fatah movement in the West Bank, who is accused of several counts of murder for attacks carried out by Fatah's militant wing. A10

Powell Visits Oil Nations
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, on the final day of a three-nation African trip, visited war orphans in Angola and a new rain forest preserve in Gabon to underscore Washington's growing interest in the two West African countries, both significant oil exporters to the United States. A9

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A16-20

Senate Rejects Nominee For Appellate Judgeship
The Senate Judiciary Committee has refused President Bush's choice for a federal appeals court post in a strict party-line vote that highlighted the growing hostility between the White House and Senate Democrats over judicial nominations. A1

Ridge Praises Preparedness
Tom Ridge, director of homeland security, believes that the country is better prepared than it was a year ago in the event of new terrorists strikes. A1

Senate Backs Guns for Pilots
The Senate voted to let airline pilots carry guns in their cockpits as a last-ditch defense against hijackers, despite opposition from the airlines. A1

Judge to Decide Beauty Queen
A federal judge in Wilmington, N.C., will decide the fate of two women vying for the Miss North Carolina title and the chance to compete for the Miss America title. A1

United Way Director Resigns
The head of Washington's United Way affiliate, bowing to pressure from local critics and the demands of other officials has stepped down. A16

Jesuits Settle Abuse Case
Two mentally retarded men who said they were sexually abused for years by priests at a Northern California Jesuit retreat will receive a total of $7.5 million in an out-of-court settlement. A18

Pope Proposes More Scrutiny
Pope John Paul II said that the Roman Catholic Church had to be much more careful not to let men with "deviations in their affections" enter the priesthood. A18

Exercise Guidelines Adjusted
Experts at the Institute of Medicine suggested that Americans need to exercise twice as much as previously recommended to maintain a normal body weight and their health. A1

Germ Expert Fired From Post
Officials at Louisiana State University, home of the National Center for Biomedical Research and Training, fired the director of one of the nation's top programs for training civilian authorities on how to handle germ attacks. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

New Evidence Found In Central Park Case
Semen found on the sock of the victim in the notorious Central Park jogger case 13 years ago has been linked conclusively by DNA tests to a convicted murderer-rapist serving a life term in an upstate prison, a law-enforcement official familiar with a sweeping new investigation of the case said. B1

School Chief Takes Tour
Chancellor Joel I. Klein whisked through the five boroughs to mark the start of his first school year, imploring students to do their homework and touting small schools with unconventional curriculums as "a model that we need to grow throughout the city." B1

N.F.L. Kickoff in Midtown
Thousands attended a concert in Times Square organized by the National Football League to celebrate the beginning of the season. Performers included Eve, Enrique Iglesias, and Jon Bon Jovi. Police officers monitoring the event said they had no problems to report and that the crowd was very well behaved. B3

Former Nazi Loses Citizenship
A federal judge in Manhattan has revoked the citizenship of a retired Brooklyn businessman who participated in the Nazi persecution of Jews in World War II, according to an order recently released. The businessman, Jack Reimer, now 83, acknowledged that he worked from 1941 to 1944 in an office in an SS camp at Trawniki, Poland, where guards were trained for Nazi concentration camps and for liquidating Jewish ghettos. B8

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-36

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A20-21

Pepsi Bethel
A longtime jazz-dance performer and choreographer, he was 83. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Benefits for Ex-G.E. Chief
Papers filed in the divorce of John F. Welch Jr., former chief executive of General Electric, contend that G.E. provided enormous living expenses while he led the company and will continue to do so for him for the rest of his life. The extent of these benefits, including use of corporate aircraft and a Manhattan apartment, had never been disclosed before. C1

Losing Their Health Insurance
The cancellation of health care coverage at small businesses added almost 150,000 workers and dependents to the ranks of the uninsured. With premiums soaring at almost eight times the rate of inflation, 45 percent of employers with three to nine workers offer no health benefits. C1

More Ahead for 'American Idol'
"American Idol," the Fox network's talent-contest show, concluded with record ratings, but its influence as a cultural and marketing phenomenon is only beginning. A CD by the winning contestant, a DVD of the entire three-month run, a new edition of the show and an expected wave of copycats are on the way. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Congress returns to New York; keeping earth fit for development; West Nile virus and the blood supply; a commission with real independence.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E21
TV Listings E26
Public Lives B2
Weather D9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JUDGES (88%); INSPECTIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); AL-QAEDA (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); ORPHANS (64%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (62%); AIRLINES (62%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (62%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); MURDER (58%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (57%); RAIN FORESTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (82%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); WILMINGTON, NC, USA (64%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (92%); GABON (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



175 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Expenses For Ex-Chief Cited in Filing 

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
Papers filed yesterday in the divorce of John F. Welch Jr., the former chief executive of General Electric, by his wife contend that G.E. covered enormous living costs for them while he led the company and will continue to do so for him for the rest of his life. The extent of these benefits has never been disclosed by the company.
 General Electric has reported that Mr. Welch's total compensation, including bonus and salary, was $16.7 million in 2000, his last full year at the company before his retirement last September. It has also said that he will remain a consultant to the company on a retainer of $86,000 a year and will continue to have access to G.E. services and facilities. 
 But it did not disclose the value and the details of his perquisites as chief executive that will apparently continue through retirement. Along with access to corporate aircraft, mentioned previously in company footnotes, the documents filed by his wife, Jane, describe his use of a Manhattan apartment owned by G.E., floor-level seats to the New York Knicks, courtside seats at the U.S. Open, satellite TV at his four homes and all the costs associated with the New York apartment, from wine and food to laundry, toiletries and newspapers. The privileges, down to certain dining bills at the restaurant Jean Georges in the Manhattan apartment building where he lives, have continued even in retirement, the court papers indicate, without placing a value on them.
Acclaimed for his ability to deliver higher profits year after year at G.E., Mr. Welch was one of the nation's most admired chief executives, and his employment contract struck in 1996 reflected his company's impressive performance.
But people who specialize in corporate governance and compensation said yesterday that they were taken aback by the long list of benefits, though they had known about the corporate aircraft, for example. 
Nell Minow, a governance expert and the editor of The Corporate Library, once described Mr. Welch's employment contract as a model because it did not appear to include a huge number of benefits. After being told about the filing, she said yesterday: "I would have thought that perks like this had to be disclosed, and they were not. There is really no justification to pay for any living or traveling expenses at that level, particularly now that he is in retirement."
Jonathan Macey, professor of law at Cornell University, said, "General Electric was probably not legally obligated to disclose the details" of his package.
Should the company have awarded him such benefits? "If you think he was leaving and they induced him to stay with these perks," then perhaps it was justified, Professor Macey said. "If it is handed to him by board cronies, then it is not justified. But it is harder to make the argument that this is illegal." 
The G.E. proxy statement for 2001 states that the company will provide Mr. Welch, who remains a consultant to the company, with "continued lifetime access to company facilities and services comparable to those which are currently made available to him by the company."
The company provides few details about what those services are. The document did not list any personal use by Mr. Welch of corporate aircraft last year, though it did quantify aircraft use by other executives. There is no mention of sports tickets or restaurant meals or the G.E.-owned apartment on Central Park West, which the court documents value at about $80,000 a month.
According to the court papers, the subsidized benefits include a car and driver for the Welches, and the communications and computer equipment at the Manhattan apartment and at their homes in Connecticut, Massachusetts and Florida. G.E. pays for security personnel when the Welches travel abroad. 
Mrs. Welch states that G.E. was paying for V.I.P seating at Wimbledon, a box at the Metropolitan Opera, a box at Red Sox games, a box at Yankee games, four country club fees, security services in all four homes and limousine services while traveling. Because of his relationship with G.E., Mr. Welch and his wife also got discounts on diamonds and jewelry settings.
Gary Sheffer, a General Electric spokesman, pointed last night to Mr. Welch's consulting agreement with G.E., which pays him at least $86,535 annually for his first 30 days of work, with a payment of $17,307 for every additional day.
The agreement, which has been widely disseminated, states that he gets lifetime access to G.E. services and facilities. "The technical stuff is basic business material that he needs as a consultant," Mr. Sheffer said.
Through an assistant, Mr. Welch declined to comment last night.
Mr. Sheffer said he could not confirm all the other expenses but that "a lot of it goes back to Jack's consulting agreement, which was signed in 1996, when the board asked him to stay on until he was 65 years old," he said.
"As part of that agreement, he got promised access to everything he had had as chief executive after he left," Mr. Sheffer said.
As to tickets to Wimbledon, he said, "we broadcast them," referring to television coverage by NBC, a unit of G.E. When his meals at Jean Georges are for personal reasons, he pays, Mr. Sheffer said, quoting Mr. Welch's assistant.
The general reference to G.E. services is misleading, Ms. Minow said. "It is appalling that one of the wealthiest men in America cannot write a check for his own Knicks tickets," she said. "It is appalling to me that Jack Welch's flowers are being paid for by retired firemen and teachers who are the G.E. shareholders and don't know this is going on.
"The reason that executive compensation and employment contracts are disclosed is so that investors know whether the interests of the executives are aligned with those of shareholders and whether the board is doing its job," she continued. "In this case, based on what was publicly available, it was impossible to tell that." 
High living by chief executives on the company's payroll has become a sore point for shareholders as the stock market has plunged. One prominent example was the $17 million New York apartment that Vivendi Universal bought and made available to Jean Marie Messier, who was recently ousted as chief executive. Tyco shareholders recently learned that the company forgave a $19 million loan to its former chief executive, , L. Dennis Kozlowski, that was used to purchase a home in Florida. 
General Electric's stock has been depressed amid concerns about the economy and about its financial transparency. Last month, its new chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, said he would sell the apartment for his use that is in the same building as Mr. Welch's and valued it at $15.2 million.
Jane Beasley Welch filed the papers about the Welches living arrangements in Superior Court in Bridgeport, Conn., after the two failed to reach an amicable divorce settlement. William Zabel, the partner at the law firm of Shulte Roth & Zabel who is representing her, said that Mrs. Welch was seeking additional support because her husband had canceled their joint credit cards and had provided her with support of $35,000 a month, which she accepted under protest and said was far below their previous standard of living. 
Mrs. Welch, who has been married to Mr. Welch for 13 years, oversaw their various properties and was involved in the living and financial arrangements, her lawyer said.
Suzy Wetlaufer left her job as editor of the Harvard Business Review in April after it was reported that she had begun a relationship with Mr. Welch. The Welches then separated, two years after the expiration of their prenuptial agreement, which provided some protection for his $900 million fortune.
Though Mrs. Welch describes $126,820 a month in costs incurred by the couple to maintain their lifestyle, the filing states that she is unable to quantify the value of most items covered by General Electric or how much Mr. Welch may contribute to those costs. 
She provides an expert's assessment showing that the use of General Electric's Boeing 737 aircraft is valued at $291,869 a month, or about $3.5 million a year. 
The other significant figure is the $7.5 million that she says General Electric paid in capital expenditures and furnishings for the couple's homes over the course of their marriage. (The Welches personally spent $32.5 million on those properties, the documents show.) At the time of the separation, the couple were building a home in Connecticut, and the filing states that several G.E. employees were on hand to assist in the design and installation of the security, telephone and other systems. 
Mr. Welch's employment contract, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, is a bit more expansive than the company's annual report or proxy statement. In retirement, Mr. Welch gets access to company "aircraft, cars, office, apartments and financial planning services" and he is to be reimbursed for "travel and living expenses incurred in providing services to the chief executive officer," it states. The benefits are "unconditional and irrevocable" even if Mr. Welch is incapacitated, the contract said. 
Graef Crystal, who specializes in corporate pay, said he was shocked that the benefits were irrevocable. 
"This is an indictment of G.E.'s board of directors," Mr. Crystal said. "This is the most appalling use of corporate assets. No one had any idea of the magnitude of what the company had been giving him." He said that either the board did not know about it or was not paying adequate attention. 
Mr. Crystal said that Mr. Welch was paid exceedingly well and that he is a wealthy man whose stock alone is worth about $900 million. Mr. Crystal also said that Mr. Welch has a life insurance policy paid by the company and a pension plan that pays more than $9 million a year.
Mr. Zabel said it is unclear who paid the taxes on the benefits described in the court documents.
Mr. Crystal said he believed that the dollar value of the benefits should not be tax deductible to General Electric because there is no business purpose to those expenditures.
"If Mr. Welch bears the taxes, they should be deductible unless there is a direct business value to a particular event," Mr. Crystal said. "But if you look at his New York apartment, why would that cost be a business expense to either party?" 
Mr. Crystal said that he would like to see greater disclosure of executives' perquisites. What passes for business spending is often a lifestyle enhancement, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Welch Jr., the former chief of G.E. The company covers many living costs for him, according to divorce papers filed by his wife, Jane. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C2) Chart: "It's Nice to Be Jack"Jack Welch, the former chief executive of General Electric, is receiving a multitude of benefits paid for by the company, according to papers filed by his wife in their divorce case. Here is a sample of what she says the company pays for: HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES -- Most expenses at their palatial apartment in the Trump International Hotel and Tower on Central Park West at Columbus Circle in New York, including condominium fees, property taxes, furnishings, food, wine, flowers, cook and wait staff, housekeeper, laundry and dry cleaning, utilities, newspaper and magazine subscriptions, and postage TRAVEL -- Boeing 737 business jets, helicopter, limousine service, rental cars and security personnel when travelling abroad. ENTERTAINMENT -- Metropolitan Opera (box seats, Grand Tier level); Yankee Stadium box seats (behind dugout); Red Sox skybox; Knicks seats (floor level); fees at golf clubs including Augusta National, Pine Valley (N.J.) and Blind Brook (Purchase, N.Y.); U.S. Open (court side), French Open and Wimbledon seats; V.I.P. tickets to Olympic events and V.I.P. tickets to NBC entertainment, news and sports events (Source: court documents) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (89%); BONUS PAY (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (52%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (82%) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (93%); JOHN K WELCH (79%) WELCH, JOHN F JR; WELCH, JANE BEASLEY; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002 



176 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
In Toronto, Films From Real-Life Events or That Respond to Past Excesses

BYLINE:  By ELVIS MITCHELL 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
This city's ardent calm makes it the home of perhaps the most inviting major film festival in the world. But last year's festival was numbed by the concurrent events of Sept. 11. And this year's, the city's 27th annual one, is still recovering. 
 Attendees have been greeting each other with smiles and astonishment -- a number were unsure that they would return -- and quite a few New Yorkers talk of getting back to Manhattan before that date arrives. 
 Some have wondered if the grim tenor that marks a big part of the festival programming is a result of the attacks of last fall. That's a question with both easy and tough answers. It's nearly impossible for movies to be made that quickly. 
Just as likely, there seems to be an atmosphere of simultaneous reaction to years of unchecked worldwide economic prosperity -- so strong that S.U.V.'s even clog the slender streets of major European cities -- that felt like an extension of the heedless, acquisitive hunger of the 1980's. And though that heady era has ended, this social phenomenon demanded a response.
A sizable percentage of the festival's fare involves films inspired by real-life events, like Denzel Washington's movie, "The Antwone Fisher Story," and "The Guys," an adaptation of the play centered on the Sept. 11 aftermath, starring Anthony LaPaglia and Sigourney Weaver. Many of the movies deal with the pairing of alienation and loneliness, particularly involving children.
It's tough to be a child in many of the films, including the harrowing French melodrama "Les Diables," about an angry, paternal little brother and his autistic, barely teenage sister, who leave a trail of blood, broken glass and incest behind them. (With its hip-hop influence, and the boy's talent for devastation, it could be called "Straight Outta Paris.") 
"City of God," by a Brazilian, Fernando Meirelles, is a drama set in the 1970's in the volatile slums of Rio that plays like Quentin Tarantino's "Los Olvidados," rather than Bunuel's. And Larry Clark and his co-director, the cinematographer Ed Lachlan, presented the chilling but ultimately ineffective "Ken Park," which focuses on teenage anomie, violence and sex in a setting of dysfunctional families. (The couplings of the naked young bodies in "Diables" and "Park" sent the chill of discomfort through the audiences.) 
There was also Michael Moore's ambitious documentary "Bowling for Columbine," which investigates the American penchant for gun violence that found one of its most jarring expressions in the 1999 high school shootings in Columbine, Colo. 
Mr. Moore's documentary also posits the idea that Canada is the friendliest nation in North America, a land where the residents leave their doors unlocked and people of color can roam the streets unmolested by the authorities. That may be open to question. 
Since the Toronto festival includes nearly 300 films, it's slightly nutty to attach a single theme to it or to its collection of movies. Another undercurrent is Mr. Washington's good fortune here. In 1999, "The Hurricane," for which he earned a nomination for best actor at the Academy Awards, was introduced here. Last year, "Training Day," for which he won an Oscar for best actor, played here. His attachment to the city is probably the reason that "The Antwone Fisher Story," Mr. Washington's directorial debut, is scheduled for a premiere here this year. (Mr. Washington agreed to direct the script, a domestic drama based on the struggles of its screenwriter, while the actor was filming "John Q" here several years ago.) 
It's not only Mr. Washington who turns up at the festival. A constant is the presence of average residents with no connection to the industry.
True, the big studio films, which are the toughest to get into, generate the most conversation, but that's because the producers have the largest publicity machinery at their disposal. It's the little films during the week -- last year's "Mostly Martha" is an example -- that not only are devoured by the broadest audiences, but also offer a dependable gauge of widespread reaction; at other festivals, audiences seem to be applauding themselves for having made it inside the theaters. The fun at Toronto comes because the audiences aren't just moneyed dilettantes, but movie fans who'll wait in line for a chance to see anything. ("Martha," a German comic melodrama about a temperamental chef played here last Sept. 12, and it was just what those in attendance needed.) 
For that reason, Toronto is an ideal of what film festivals should be. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SHOOTINGS (74%); FAMILY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (69%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (62%); AUTISM (50%) MOTION PICTURES; TORONTO FILM FESTIVAL 

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (58%) MITCHELL, ELVIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) CANADA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



177 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTIONS; 
Cherished Ideas Refracted in History's Lens

BYLINE:  By Edward Rothstein 

 BODY:
What ideas have changed since 9/11? 
 One school of thought says not many: the world can be interpreted pretty much as it was before. The attacks, in this view, were different from earlier examples of terror only in degree, not in kind. They were horrific acts perpetrated by a terrorist organization with limited means and a circumscribed membership. 
 In this view, the major international challenge has been to respond with a careful balance of military force and negotiation. The major domestic challenge has been to increase security while restraining temptations to cast the blame too widely or seek villains too crudely. The major psychological challenge has been to manage grief. And the major intellectual challenge has been to make a sober assessment of the "root causes" of the attacks, to prevent them in the future. 
Over the past year, though, these familiar views have come to seem increasingly inadequate. They present an eminently rational vision, in which nothing need be disrupted too much: warfare, like grief, will be "managed." The only things required in the long run are more generosity of spirit and empathy in American foreign policy. 
But the world will not long permit such illusions. In fact, 9/11 did not represent a moment of continuity in which ideas remained unchanged, but marked a decisive tear in the interpretive fabric. Reinterpretation and revision are still taking place. Like other wars, this one seems to divide experience into a before and an after, altering both understanding of the past and prospects for the future. 
The enemy, after all, is not the narrowly defined Qaeda, but a wellspring of Islamic terrorist organizations, sponsored and embraced and sometimes feared by numerous states in the Arab world, many possessing networks in both Europe and the United States.
The battle against these organizations is dangerous and precarious. American society, the apotheosis of Western liberalism, is by definition an opponent of fundamentalist and totalitarian terror. But it is also a society reluctant to grasp the nature of the beast. It is most devoted to procedure and reason, to tolerance and egalitarianism, hoping to find similar values even in its enemies, despite the ever-mounting evidence.
More troubling is that this battle, even if infallibly waged, requires that liberal society strain against those very values, constricting tolerance and encouraging suspicion. Fundamentalist terror may not be representative of mainstream Islam, but that still doesn't make it any easier to root it out of mainstream Islamic communities in Western nations. Society is forced to challenge liberal values in the act of defending them. 
Adding to the tensions, this war demands that American citizens trust authorities even though all their impulses have been trained to distrust authorities. And while waging war requires a belief that you are just, these same critical impulses have tended to encourage a skepticism of that justice. 
This means that self-scrutiny will be an unavoidable part of any war. But under the force of experience and the need for action, these impulses will be modified in as-yet-untold ways. How could they not be when tolerance and American self-criticism reach their limits? 
That kind of transformation has already taken place with a notion often invoked by international commentators and American intellectuals, explaining the "root causes" of Al Qaeda. In this view, terrorism is caused by social and economic injustice; it is an expression of political frustration and material desperation. The root cause argument invokes the grievance not to dismiss it, but to give it credence -- and suggest unacknowledged guilt.
But this notion, which has often been selectively applied to serve political purposes, fails to account for the lure of fundamentalist ideology or for the resentment of modernity that permeates Islamic terror. And poverty, the accumulating evidence suggests, far from causing terrorism, barely even correlates with it. So the empathetic invocations of "root causes" -- a reflexive part of post-9/11 rhetoric -- have become far more rare, particularly as it has become clear just what sorts of societies and values are championed by terrorism's practitioners. 
Other concepts and explanations are also changing under the pressure of experience. For in fighting this kind of enemy, the United States is also seeking to transform the tyrannies that support it. The establishment of democratic institutions in the Middle East has become a preoccupation. In Afghanistan, the hope for a Western-style parliament in a country that has never known one seems undiminished. After a decade of dictatorial governance and financial corruption, the Palestinian Authority is being pressured to enact democratic reforms, and internal dissent is becoming more evident. The successful prosecution of America's war may well be inseparable from the attempt to encourage the development of modern democratic societies in a region that has only one. 
This form of nation building once had another name: imperialism. The word still jangles with jingoistic echoes. And American neo-imperialism may yet turn tragic with frustrations, as Kipling long ago predicted in his misunderstood paean to "the White Man's burden." 
Yet this idea is bound to change character. After all, instead of exploitation, imperialism is now being associated with democratic reform, sometimes to the great satisfaction of its subjects. Maybe even 19th-century imperialism will be reinterpreted and invoked by example since many non-Western nations developed democratic institutions solely because of imperialist influence. Imperialism's exploitation often had a virtuous flip side; perhaps there is a way, despite Kipling's skepticism, to separate the two?
The exercise of this kind of power and influence in this war though, will require not single acts but continuous and continuing decisions, active involvement in the destiny of nations. The United States already possesses political, cultural, economic and military power on a scale unknown in the history of humankind. What will happen if this war is waged successfully and such power grows? America will inspire unjustified hatreds and justified enmity, gratitude and allegiance, disgust and envy; it will need to use the power unilaterally but will also need to forge alliances and defer its use; it will demand obligations but also incur them.
Sounds familiar, yet strange. An old idea transformed. Call it Empire.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (87%); FUNDAMENTALISM (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); RELIGION (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%) TERRORISM 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



178 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Shares Rally but Not Enough to Turn the Week Positive

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday after the government reported that the labor market improved last month.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.7 percent, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.5 percent, wiping out much of the declines from Tuesday and Thursday. Still, the major indexes posted losses for the week. 
 The report of an increase of 39,000 jobs in August, combined with an upward revision for July to 67,000 new jobs from 6,000, helped offset some of the gloomy economic reports last week from the manufacturing and service sectors of the economy. 
Still, signs of continued weakness remained in the new data, according to some analysts. "The bottom line is that labor demand appears to have stagnated and forward-looking signals are mixed," said David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley.
That leaves investors awaiting more data before being able to answer the crucial question: is the recovery, albeit slow, going to continue and become modestly stronger, or is the economy in for an extended period of slow growth that would negate any meaningful rebound in corporate earnings?
The employment report makes it very unlikely that the Federal Reserve will find it necessary to lower rates soon, so those who had bet on a rate cut retrenched yesterday. Prices in the bond market fell, and yields, which move in the opposite direction, climbed. But interest rates were down sharply for the week. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note is still near its lowest level since the early 1960's. Low interest rates are one clear bright spot in the economic outlook because they make borrowing cheaper and are fueling a mortgage refinancing boom that is putting more cash into consumers' pockets.
At the close, the Dow was up 143.50 points, to 8,427.20, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index climbed 14.77 points, or 1.7 percent, to 893.92. The Nasdaq rose 44.30 points, to 1,295.30. All three indexes were off for the second consecutive week, with the Dow down 2.7 percent, the S.& P. 500 index off 2.4 percent and the Nasdaq down 1.5 percent.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note fell 28/32 to 102 28/32, as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.02 percent from 3.92 percent on Thursday and 4.13 percent a week ago. The yield on the Treasury's two-year note, which is often sensitive to expectations of a Federal Reserve rate cut, rose to 2.05 percent, from 1.95 percent on Thursday and 2.15 percent a week ago. The recent lows were 3.92 percent for the 10-year note and 1.89 percent for the 2-year note.
The price of crude oil briefly moved above $30 a barrel yesterday as President Bush began to lobby foreign leaders for support of American military action against Iraq. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the price of oil for October delivery peaked at $30.19 a barrel but then slipped to end the day at $29.61, up 63 cents, or 2.2 percent. The price of crude oil closed at $30.11 a barrel on Aug. 20, the first time it had finished a day that high since February 2000.
The price of oil is beginning to worry some economists because it has now risen more this year than they had forecast and, therefore, can begin to become a drag on expected economic growth. Producers in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, who are scheduled to meet this month in Osaka, Japan, could decide to increase production to ease the price pressure. But continued debate about an invasion of Iraq may make it difficult for the price to move much lower. An invasion of Iraq could lead to disruptions in the flow of oil from the Middle East.
Stocks leading the market higher included Intel, which rose $1.11, or 7.4 percent, to $16.22. It remained down 2.7 percent for the week. After the market closed Thursday, the company said that its sales for the third quarter would be at the low end of its own forecasts. For investors, this turned out to be better news than expected, and the stock moved higher yesterday. Intel stock had fallen 6.2 percent on Thursday in anticipation of the announcement.
Citigroup rose 98 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $30.28, but was still down 7.5 percent for the week. On Tuesday, Citigroup plunged 10.3 percent after a Prudential Financial stock analyst downgraded the stock to a sell from a hold, citing his lowered earnings forecast and the prospect that the bank would face big liabilities from its dealings with Enron and Worldcom.
Other stocks that rose yesterday but were still down for the week included Microsoft, General Electric, General Motors, Exxon Mobil, and Dell Computer.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); JOB CREATION (76%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



179 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR GAINS. The dollar advanced after a government report showed that the jobless rate dropped, easing concern that growth is slowing. In New York, the euro settled at 98.09 cents, down from 99.32 cents on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since March 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (85%) CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (77%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



180 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: European Economic Forecast Is Cut Again 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
The European Commission lowered its economic growth forecast for the fourth time this year today as exports slowed and manufacturers scaled back investment.
 The economy of the dozen nations sharing the euro will expand 0.3 percent to 0.6 percent this quarter, the commission said, less than a previous estimate of 0.6 percent to 0.9 percent. 
It grew 0.3 percent in the second quarter. 
 The reduction followed cuts in the commission's quarterly growth predictions on May 7, May 30 and Aug. 8.
In Frankfurt, the European Central Bank's chief economist, Otmar Issing, said a slowing American economy and tumbling stock markets had increased risks to the economic recovery.
A loss of confidence in financial markets "is a decisive event of the past month, and those responsible must do everything to restore confidence quickly," Mr. Issing said. 
Speculation is growing that at a Thursday meeting the European Central Bank will cut its benchmark interest rate, which has been at 3.25 percent for 10 months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); INTEREST RATES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



181 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Fell in August, But Drop Is Called Insignificant 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The labor market improved slightly last month but offered little hope that the economy would soon emerge from its prolonged weakness.
 American employers added 39,000 jobs in August, roughly in line with the modest growth of recent months, the Labor Department reported yesterday, but the entire gain came from the hiring of new airport security guards and other government workers. Companies remain reluctant to hire until economic growth improves. 
 The unemployment rate fell to 5.7 percent last month, from 5.9 percent in July, but economists at the Labor Department and on Wall Street called the decline almost meaningless. The rate, which is based on a smaller survey than the payroll numbers, often jumps around from month to month. Many experts expect the jobless rate to move up at least slightly later this year. 
"The drop in the unemployment rate should be ignored," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. "Over all, new jobs are still very scarce."
Investors seemed relieved, however, that the economy had stabilized and was not sliding toward a new recession. After the release of the jobs report, stocks opened higher and held their gains. The Standard & Poor 500-stock index closed at 893.92, up about 1.7 percent.
As the first broad measure of the economy in August, the report also contradicted some worrisome signs earlier this week and reinforced the convictions of most analysts that the Federal Reserve would not cut its benchmark interest rate later this month. In August, at its most recent meeting, the Fed held its rate steady, saying that its 11 cuts last year were still working their way through the economy. 
"For financial markets that were fearing a real deterioration, this is good news," Steven Wieting, a senior economist at Solomon Smith Barney, said yesterday. "A choppy, gradual and modest recovery seems most likely."
In recent months, companies have mostly halted the large-scale layoffs of early this year and late 2001, and many are now trying to increase their sales without hiring new workers. Between February 2001 and February 2002, companies cut more than two million jobs; in the last six months they have added 26,000.
Even that modest growth stopped in August, however, as private-sector payrolls fell by 2,000 after three months of gains. In a sign of their reticence, business executives cut about 50,000 permanent jobs last month and added roughly the same number of temporary workers, who can be laid off at almost no cost.
The manufacturing sector also reversed its recent progress, eliminating 68,000 jobs in August, the biggest cut since January. As many executives across the economy realized last year that they had bought more equipment in the late 90's than they could profitably use, they sharply reduced their spending on technology, machines and software. 
Manufacturers, faced with falling sales and a dollar that remains expensive compared with other currencies, have eliminated almost one of every 10 jobs in their sector in the last two years.
The government, meanwhile, has been hiring at a rapid pace. Many federal agencies are expanding, as part of their response to the Sept. 11 attacks, and state agencies have continued projects that began when they still had budget surpluses.
With the federal government and many states now facing deficits, however, the private sector will have to begin hiring in large numbers for unemployment to drop significantly, economists say.
The government calculates the unemployment rate from a poll of 60,000 households, and it can produce volatile results because it covers less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the nation's jobs. The so-called payroll survey covers more than 300,000 factories and offices and 37 million of the economy's 131 million jobs.
In August, the household survey said that the economy had added 429,000 jobs -- a figure economists called unrealistic -- allowing the unemployment rate to fall. Still, the surge in the household survey's August job count suggested that the relatively bleak economic picture it had painted in the last three months was not accurate either.
The unemployment rate has risen from a 30-year low of 3.9 percent in late 2000 but has remained essentially flat this year. Every previous recession of the last three decades caused the rate to climb to at least 7.8 percent. In the early 80's, it exceeded 10 percent.
With the labor market tighter than it was at the end of earlier downturns, production workers -- the majority of the work force -- continue to get annual raises of about 3 percent. 
Few forecasters expect the jobless rate to exceed 6 percent by much -- if at all -- in coming months, but the economy has also offered little evidence that it is on the verge of returning to the fast growth of the late 90's.
Production workers spent an average of 34.1 hours on the job last month, up slightly from July, but still below the level reached for most of this year. Companies typically ask their existing employees to work longer hours before they spend money to recruit new workers and to pay the costs of their health insurance and other benefits.
The Labor Department also reported that slightly more industries were planning to cut jobs than to add them in coming months, a shift from earlier this summer when the two groups were evenly split.
Health care continued to stand out as one of the few industries consistently hiring. In August, it added 26,000 employees, close to its average growth over the last two years, according to the Labor Department, which adjusts its numbers to account for normal seasonal changes. 
Amusement parks, mortgage bankers, car dealers and building contractors also added jobs. Department stores, electronics makers and trucking and warehousing companies reduced their payrolls.
As part of its regular revisions, the Labor Department said yesterday that the economy had added 101,000 jobs in June and July, rather than 68,000, as the government reported a month ago. The change helped support the guarded optimism of many investors and economists.
"The underlying message is that we're making some progress," said Richard D. Rippe, the chief economist at Prudential Securities. "It's not strong, it's not consistent, but on balance the economy is gradually gaining ground."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rita Stopa and Phil Clark went over some numbers recently in the career resource center of the Illinois Department of Employment Security in Grayslake, Ill. (Bloomberg News) Chart: "Hiring, but Slowly"Job growth has turned positive in recent months, but it remains well below the levels of the late 1990's. Graph tracks change in nonfarm payrolls from 1998-2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "The Labor Picture in August"UNEMPLOYMENT Graph tracks civilian unemployment: 5.7 percent BY DEMOGRAPHIC White: 5.1Black: 9.6Hispanic*: 7.5Men 20 and over: 5.2Women 20 and over: 4.9Teenagers (16-19): 17.2 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 8.1Lost job: 4.6Left job: 0.8Returning to labor market: 2.3New to labor market: 0.6 EMPLOYMENTHousehold survey: 134.5 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 130.8 million BY TYPE OF WORK (millions)JulyNonfarm: 130.8Goods: 23.8Services: 107.0Agriculture: 3.3 Aug.Nonfarm: 130.8Goods: 23.8Services: 107.1Agriculture: 3.2 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent)JulyWork force: 62.6Labor force (workers and unemployed): 66.5 Aug.Work force: 62.8Labor force (workers and unemployed): 66.6 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AIRPORTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); AVIATION SECURITY (71%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



182 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 489 words

PERSON: Franklyn D. Holzman 

HEADLINE: Franklyn D. Holzman, 83, Economist Critical of Moscow 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Franklyn D. Holzman, an economist who uncovered regressive taxation in the Soviet Union and railed against intelligence estimates of Soviet military spending, died on Sunday at the home of his daughter, Miriam Meyer, with whom he lived in Clifton, Va. He was 83.
 The cause was complications of a stroke suffered two years ago, said his son David, of Lexington, Mass. 
 In a book published in 1955, Mr. Holzman described how the Soviet Union's turnover tax, a form of sales tax, redistributed money from low-income people to more highly paid ones. This phenomenon ran counter to the basic dictates of the Communist system.
"It was a book I told him that I wish I had written," said Marshall I. Goldman, associate director of the Davis Center for Russian Studies at Harvard University, where the two had been colleagues. "It was good economics. It was good Sovietology. Usually, at the time he wrote it, you did one or the other, but you didn't do both."
Mr. Holzman's criticisms of the Soviet system also extended to trade. In the early 1960's, he used theory and statistics to assert that prices in East European Communist countries would have been lower if the Soviet Union had permitted trade with the rest of the world.
Though economists took most note of this early writing, Mr. Holzman became known in the late 1970's and 1980's for accusing American politicians, especially President Ronald Reagan, of drastically overstating Soviet military spending in an effort to sway budget decisions at home.
Mr. Holzman waged a continuing battle with the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department over the figures, sometimes in the business and Op-Ed pages of The New York Times, and was partly vindicated by the collapse of Communism. Military spending in dollar terms had indeed been lower than Washington experts estimated, but the strain from such spending still managed to break the back of the Soviet economy.
Franklyn Dunn Holzman was born and raised in Brooklyn, and received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of North Carolina in 1940. He entered the Army Air Corps and was stationed at a Soviet-American air base in Poltava, Ukraine, that would support the Allied bombing of Berlin. There, he began to nurture an interest in the Soviet Union's culture and economy.
After the war, Mr. Holzman began graduate studies at Harvard University under two Russian-born giants of economic theory, Alexander Gerschenkron and Wassily Leontief. He later married a fellow student, Mathilda Wiesman. She died in June 2000.
Mr. Holzman first taught at the University of Washington, Seattle, but spent most of his career at Tufts University in Medford, Mass.
An author and editor of several tracts on centrally planned economies and the theories of inflation and trade, Mr. Holzman retired in 1990.
In addition to David and Miriam, Mr. Holzman is survived by another son, Thomas, of Bethesda, Md., and four grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); DEATHS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); ARMIES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); WRITERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (55%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES) 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

RONALD REAGAN (50%) HOLZMAN, FRANKLYN D; ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UKRAINE (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



183 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 420 words

PERSON: Edmund Taylor Pratt Jr. 

HEADLINE: Edmund Taylor Pratt Jr., 75, A Former Chairman of Pfizer 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Edmund Taylor Pratt Jr., a former chairman of Pfizer Inc., whose long executive tenure bolstered the company's role in research and operations worldwide, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived in Port Washington, N.Y.
 He suffered a brief illness, his family said. 
 In more than 30 years with the company, Mr. Pratt rose from controller to president and, in 1972, chairman and chief executive. He retired from the company in 1992 but continued as a director and chairman emeritus until five years ago.
"During his 20-year tenure as C.E.O., Ed Pratt transformed Pfizer from a diversified manufacturing company to a research-based pharmaceutical company," said Henry A. McKinnell, the current chairman and chief executive. Pfizer, founded in 1849 as a fine-chemicals business, most recently put its annual revenue at nearly $30 billion. The company has 85,000 employees.
Mr. Pratt was also given credit for helping to keep Pfizer's headquarters in New York City; he was honored for that effort by the Regional Plan Association in 1978. He was cited for leading the company in promoting minority job training and opportunity programs and working to improve the economic and social climate of the city and region.
To that end, Mr. Pratt allocated company resources to improve the neighborhood of Pfizer's birthplace as a manufacturer in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. He allied Pfizer with other companies and public agencies in the 1970's to build affordable housing and reverse urban decay.
Edmund Pratt was born in Savannah, Ga., and grew up in Elkton, Md., where his father worked for the Army Corps of Engineers. He graduated magna cum laude with a degree in electrical engineering from Duke University under a Navy program in 1947 and received an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1949.
He served as a lieutenant in the Navy during the Korean War after starting his business career with I.B.M. in 1949. There he rose to controller of the I.B.M. World Trade Corporation, a post he held from 1958 to 1962.
He joined the Kennedy administration in 1962 as assistant secretary of the Army for financial management, but soon returned to the private sector as controller at Pfizer in New York. He was in charge of the company's international operations before being named president of the parent organization in 1971.
Mr. Pratt is survived by his wife, Nancy Rhodes Pratt, and two sons, Randolf R., of Plandome, N.Y., and Keith T., of Brighton, Mich. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ARMIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CANCER (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); NAVIES (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (66%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (63%); KOREAN WAR (63%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (63%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES) 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (95%); IBM WORLD TRADE CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (84%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (95%); PFEB (BRU) (95%); PFE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (95%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (63%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PRATT, EDMUND TAYLOR JR; SAXON, WOLFGANG; PFIZER CORP 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



184 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Airline Forecasts Further Cost Cuts 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
American Airlines needs to cut its permanent cost structure by at least $3 billion a year, or more than 15 percent, over the next several years, its chairman and chief executive, Donald J. Carty, said today.
 Mr. 
Carty said American, a unit of AMR, would make more announcements this year about overhauling the carrier, the world's largest, which has lost $2.8 billion since the beginning of last year. 
 Last month, the airline said it would cut 7,000 jobs, or 6 percent of the work force, and reduce its passenger capacity 9 percent to slash costs and compete better with low-fare carriers. It said those moves would save $1.1 billion a year.
American, based in Fort Worth, eliminated 20,000 jobs after last September's terrorist attacks.
Mr. Carty, speaking to a business group in Calgary, Alberta, said that during the economic boom of the late 1990's, when revenues and costs both soared, American might have lost sight of the need for constant change. The airline, also, did not pay enough attention to competing with low-cost carriers like Southwest Airlines, he said.
"We believe that to get our costs to truly competitive levels, we need to effect a permanent structural cost reduction over the next several years of at least $3 billion annually," Mr. Carty said.
AMR, which lost $1.76 billion on revenue of $18.96 billion last year, has announced it will retire older planes and simplify its fleet to cut fuel and maintenance costs. It is also spreading out flights at its Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth hubs to improve schedule efficiency.
Mr. Carty said the industry's problems were evident even before the terror attacks because of a slump in business travel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES 

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: CARTY, DONALD J 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



185 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Fears of a Chill on Britain's Home Front

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
The joke used to be that if two Englishmen were sent to the moon, they would promptly form a gentleman's club. These days, two Britons of either sex would probably talk -- smugly or wistfully -- about house prices.
 In the last 12 months, house prices, particularly in London and the southeast, have soared by almost one-quarter, the fastest expansion in more than a decade and the latest unfolding of a sustained boom in which the price of some homes has doubled since the late 1990's. Even as stock markets have withered, the cost of houses and apartments has soared, fueled by the lowest interest rates and the lowest unemployment levels for almost 40 years. 
 The boom has sent prices into what one columnist called "cloud cuckoo land." Just last month, new research showed that the number of homes on sale for more than $:1 million -- roughly $1.5 million, and once an exotic benchmark of high value for most Britons -- had almost doubled to 1,100 across England in a year, the bulk of them in the London neighborhood of St. John's Wood. 
In another London district, the owner of a double garage in upmarket Notting Hill, the location of the movie of the same name starring Julia Roberts and Hugh Grant, has put half the garage on the market for $225,000. A former public bathroom is being offered for around $200,000.
Some economists argue that the market has created a feel-good factor in a land with one of the world's highest levels of property ownership. This means that Britons keep on spending cash and plastic, and thus keep their service-driven economy growing faster than its European counterparts, because they feel so rich in bricks and mortar.
Yet in recent weeks, doubts have begun to creep into this idyll of ever-expanding wealth -- almost an echo of America's faith in the seemingly unlimited riches to be plucked from the equities markets in the 1990's -- because the high prices are leaving too many potential buyers behind.
Not too long ago, Britain's soaring house prices had been seen by economists as a source of inflationary concern, largely because of the dominance of housing investment in British calculations. But the same dominance makes the housing market a font of consumer confidence and growth.
Roughly 75 percent of Britons own their own home, compared with around 50 percent in France and Germany or 64 percent in the United States, according to real estate industry estimates. In Continental Europe, some real estate prices have fallen in recent years; for dinner-table anecdotes about soaring prices, only some United States cities, like New York, seem to compare to London.
Moreover, Britons tend to invest more than three times the amount in their homes that they do in the stock market, banking estimates say, meaning that they are likely to be less exposed to stock market swings than Americans.
In a wildly uneven housing market in which the same $225,000 that buys half a garage in Notting Hill can buy a three-bedroom, detached home in the northern city of Manchester, the national average price for a dwelling topped $:100,000 ($150,000) for the first time earlier this year and now stands at over $:110,000.
Now, though, there are fears of a chill, evoking memories of the late 1980's and early 1990's when house prices crashed, leaving some buyers with loans worth more than their properties. Last month, house prices rose 0.2 percent, the slowest increase in 10 months, according to Halifax, Britain's biggest mortgage lender. Although other mortgage lenders have been less gloomy, the slowdown coincided with a broader slide in Britain's economy.
Last month, the National Statistics Office said annual growth slowed to 1.2 percent in the second quarter, pulled down by a huge slump in manufacturing, which fell 5.3 percent from May to June. Also in August, the Bank of England lowered its forecast for Britain's economic growth this year to 2.5 percent from 3 percent. 
Indeed, repaying the housing loan has become one of Britain's central worries. A survey in June 2002 of 2,000 people found that 36 percent feared that they would be unable to repay their mortgage loans within the next four months, compared with 31 percent last April. The deepest worries were among people 35 to 44, half of whom feared they would not be able to repay their mortgages. The findings "are the first clear indication that people are taking on more than they can afford," said the survey by CPP, a debit and credit card protection company.
The recent slowing in price increases comes only after the rises caused some fundamental social shifts. According to a survey of 1,000 Britons aged 18 to 25 that was conducted for Egg, an Internet bank, the high price of buying a home has forced many people to delay marriage and parenthood, to live at home with their parents for longer and to cancel vacations and nights on the town to save for a deposit on a house or apartment.
"If ever there was an example of the madness of property prices, surely this is it," the columnist Becky Barrow wrote recently in The Daily Telegraph. "The inexorable rise of property prices from Edinburgh to Exeter has created a financial bind so powerful that it changes the way we live."
Consider, for instance, Laura Chapman, a 28-year-old producer for a financial television network. With a friend who inherited money, she said, she is negotiating to buy a modest, one-and-a-half-bedroom apartment near London's financial district. The cost: $460,000. By her calculations, people earning less than the equivalent of $75,000 find it difficult to buy anywhere in central London.
Even with mortgage interest rates at record low levels -- some lenders are offering 3.75 percent -- she said many people had trouble coming up with the initial deposit on a property, let alone repayments.
"Unless you have got a lot of savings, getting an inheritance seems to be the only way you can buy," she said.
North of London, in the suburb of Edgware, James Inverne, a 27-year-old freelance journalist, said he earned around $45,000 a year and had been renting an apartment as prices to buy properties just ran away from him. Two-bedroom suburban properties he looked at three years ago for the equivalent of $114,000 now cost around $225,000. And while couples with two salaries stood a better chance as first-time buyers, he said, people like him, earning well over the average London salary, $36,000 a year, had problems.
"I don't know how people across the country are coping," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Chapman and Mike Parker pooled resources to buy an apartment in the building behind them in the East End of London. Housing prices have soared in parts of Britain, especially in London and the southeast. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); TRENDS (72%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; MORTGAGES 

PERSON: HUGH GRANT (ACTOR) (50%); JULIA ROBERTS (50%) COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (88%); FRANCE (77%); GERMANY (73%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



186 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: US Airways Is Reversing Some Changes Made Recently 

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Reacting to a barrage of e-mail messages from business travelers, US Airways backpedaled yesterday on some aspects of its recently announced restrictions on nonrefundable advance-purchase fares.
 With the reversal announced yesterday, mileage earned on cheap nonrefundable tickets will continue to count toward qualification for the various tiers of elite-level frequent-flier status, US Airways said. Under the airline's change announced last week, mileage earned on those tickets would no longer have counted toward qualification for elite frequent-flier tiers that airlines use to award free upgrades to first- and business-class seats. 
 But the main component of the change announced last week, and subsequently adopted by other major carriers except United Airlines, remains in effect. That is, effective Oct. 1, nonrefundable tickets that are not used lose their value unless an alternate flight is booked on or before the travel date. 
For nearly a decade, travelers who bought a nonrefundable fare but failed to actually take the flight were able to reuse that ticket, for up to a year, by paying a penalty fee. In recent years those fees have been $75 or $100.
A US Airways spokesman, David Castelveter, said the airline, which is currently operating while in bankruptcy-court proceedings, dropped the tier-status restriction after receiving "thousands of e-mails from frequent fliers" protesting the move. None of the other airlines matched US Air's now-abandoned restrictions on so-called tier-mileage status.
In another reversal yesterday, US Air said that effective Jan. 1 people holding nonrefundable tickets could try to fly standby on an alternate flight under certain conditions, including payment of a $100 fee; last week it had eliminated that standby option. 
Staggered by mounting losses -- and startled further as it became clear last week that air-travel statistics for the peak flying month of August would show a continuing deterioration in revenue -- the big airlines are desperately trying to raise fees and cut costs. They remain afraid to actually raise fares and possibly lose even more customers to rapidly growing low-fare competitors like Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways, analysts said.
Business travelers, who account for the bulk of revenue at the major airlines, have been engaged in a revolt against high walk-up fares, the fully refundable fares with no restrictions that had usually been used for corporate travel. Starting about 18 months ago, large numbers of business travelers began using the more restrictive, and cheaper, nonrefundable fares that were intended for leisure travelers.
The shift has flabbergasted airline executives, some of whom admit that they can no longer tell their leisure travelers from their business travelers.
Among corporate travel executives, the current crackdown on nonrefundable tickets was widely regarded as a desperate and risky attempt by the big airlines to herd business travelers back into the higher-priced business-fare market by making the cheap tickets less flexible.
"The airlines were already nickel-and-diming their best customers" by raising fees on things like extra bags and by cutting back on food and other amenities, said Michael Sommer, a New Jersey-based consultant on airline technology. "They're in desperate financial straits and trying to grab every possible penny. But I think with these moves on nonrefundable fares, they've now shot themselves in the foot."
The airlines moved against nonrefundable fares "to slyly increase revenue while not having to raise ticket prices," said Kevin P. Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition. "They thought they could slip it through without anybody noticing it."
The major airlines, on the other hand, insisted that with accumulated losses of about $10 billion since last September, there is a great need to quickly increase revenue.
In addition, several airline executives said, on condition of anonymity, that the shift to nonrefundable fares among business fliers had been accompanied by an equally unanticipated increase in the use of so-called back-to-back bookings. Such bookings, which use multiple nonrefundable tickets to circumvent various restrictions built into the fare, like Saturday night stay requirements, "game the system" in a way that airlines are finding increasingly unacceptable, one executive said.
John Kennedy, a spokesman for Delta Air Lines, pointed out that while the airlines are losing billions, average air fares are now the lowest they have been in 30 years, adjusted for inflation. Limiting nonrefundable fares and other measures merely constitute "an attempt by us to at least break even," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Travelers at the US Airways ticket counter at Philadelphia International Airport. The airline has reversed some of its latest restrictions in response to a barrage of e-mail protests from business fliers. (Associated Press)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (51%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (51%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIRWAYS 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); LUV (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



187 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Report Sees Gloomy Side to the Boom in Car Sales 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
A new report by Goldman Sachs is sharply pessimistic about the robustness of auto sales and the underlying health of the Big Three.
 The report contends that two main factors that have propped up sales in the short term -- huge incentives and extra consumer cash coming from a boom in home mortgage refinancing -- cannot be sustained. 
 The report, titled "After the Automotive Boom," suggests that if auto sales remain strong, the financing operations of the Big Three will have difficulty generating enough equity to continue to support deals like zero percent financing.
"The boom depends on access to capital," according to the report, because more generous loans cannot be extended to car buyers without it. "The Big Three cannot continue to support the boom indefinitely," the report added. It was written by Gary R. Lapidus, an auto analyst, and Jan Hatzius, an economist. 
On the other hand, if financing deals are cut back, or consumers tire of them -- and home mortgage refinancing falls off, as expected -- auto sales, and corporate earnings, could fall sharply. Such an economic environment could also lead to lower-than-forecast returns in the companies' huge pension funds and a cash squeeze.
Mr. Lapidus described the outlook in the report not as a forecast but rather as a realistic possibility. The report focused primarily on General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, and officials at the two companies pointedly disagreed with its conclusions and what they called its gloomy economic outlook.
"It's highly improbable that we'll see a severe retrenchment in consumer spending," said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s chief industry sales analyst, adding that it would take a severe recession for sales to drop as sharply as the report suggested -- to 15 million a year from the nearly 17 million projected this year.
Mr. Lapidus disagreed that it would take a recession at all, and added that he was suggesting a possible return to mid-1990's levels of sales. 
As for continued reliance on interest-free financing, Mr. Ballew said, "We're not doing this with rose-colored glasses." He added that the company expected pricing to become somewhat worse for G.M. -- and better for consumers -- but that the company had other ways to make money.
"You focus on cost-cutting and productivity, you focus on constant improvement in vehicle quality and the value you're giving consumers, and you need to strengthen your brands and product lineups," he said. 
The company emphasized that it was making money and, even if sales were to fall sharply -- a premise it does not accept -- its credit subsidiary, G.M.A.C., would improve the company's overall outlook because it would have plenty of cash coming in from past deals but less need for capital in a smaller market. 
David Reuter, a spokesman for Ford, called the report "overly aggressive" and said it was unlikely that consumer spending would decline next year. 
"It's gone down this year, and the auto industry has shown resilience," he said. "Consumer spending may be down, but consumers are spending their money on some things, and automobiles are one of them."
G.M. and Ford both reported strong sales on Wednesday, along with much of the rest of the industry, making last month a record-breaking August. But both companies' stocks fell sharply on Thursday after the Goldman Sachs report circulated. Shares of Ford stock had another bad day today, while G.M. recovered, highlighting the divergent views investors still take of the companies. G.M. has stabilized its market share and is profitable, while Ford is in the early stages of a turnaround plan after losing $5.5 billion last year. 
This week, Ford's stock fell 13.3 percent, closing today at $10.20 a share, while G.M. fell 4.3 percent, to $45.80 a share.
The Goldman Sachs report raised questions about the practice of zero percent financing and other incentives. The price war continued today, with Ford announcing that it would offer zero percent deals on seven of its 2003 models, matching plans announced this week by G.M. and the Chrysler Group of DaimlerChrysler.
Analysts have taken different positions about the effect of the incentives and the basic financial health of the Big Three.
Scott Sprinzen, managing director for corporate and government bond ratings at Standard & Poor's, the debt rating agency, said that Ford and G.M. were likely to have little trouble raising money in the foreseeable future and that the bond market was still interested in their offerings.
"There's one simple reason," he said. "In the United States, you need a car and you're going to do everything you can to meet your car payments because of the difficulty in functioning without a vehicle."
In a conference today, analysts at UBS Warburg also warned about the potential effect on the auto industry of a falloff in home mortgage refinancing. 
"This is pretty much unprecedented, the amount of debt people are taking out on their homes," said Gary Gordon, a UBS consumer finance analyst. "Either it ends with a whimper," he added, "or it ends with the popping of a bubble."
One hedge fund manager, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the report underscored some of the challenges faced by the Big Three, whose American plants are unionized while the local plants of most foreign competitors are not.
If the Big Three were unconstrained by labor contracts, they would close several plants and lay off workers in an effort to become more efficient and to compete better with much more profitable rivals like Toyota and Honda, the manager said. Such actions would help the companies restructure and free more capital to spend on product development, but their labor contracts prevent them from doing so. 
The money manager said that because he thought labor concessions would be highly unlikely and that the companies would eventually have difficulty raising money, he was selling shares of G.M. and Ford short, meaning he is betting that their stock price will decrease.
"The bond markets will eventually figure this out," he said. "You can't just keep pouring money into this thing."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the financial outlook for the Big Three automakers paraphrased incorrectly from a comment by Scott Sprinzen, managing director for corporate and government bond ratings at Standard & Poor's. He said the Ford Motor Company and General Motors should be able to obtain financing for the foreseeable future from the market for asset-backed securities, not from the bond market.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Goldman Sachs report warns that incentives like zero percent financing could eventually hurt the Big Three carmakers. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C1); Big rebates and zero percent financing have pushed car sales to record levels, but a Goldman Sachs report says the boom can't be sustained. (Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); SALES FINANCING (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (71%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



188 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stocks Gain and Bonds Fall On Labor Market Report
Stocks rallied and bonds declined after the government reported that the labor market improved last month. The report eased some of the anxiety over the weak economy and raised doubts that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates anytime soon.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 143.50 points, or 1.7 percent, to 8,427.20, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 14.77 points, or 1.7 percent, to 893.92. The Nasdaq composite index rose 44.30 points, or 3.5 percent, to 1,295.30. All three indexes declined for the second consecutive week. Page C4. 

Citigroup in Settlement Talks
Citigroup and the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that they were close to an agreement to settle accusations that a consumer lending business acquired by the company two years ago engaged in aggressive and misleading lending practices. C14.

Restrictions Eased for CryoLife
Regulators have agreed to allow CryoLife to resume limited distribution of human tissue for transplants in cases where patients have no alternatives. The 45-day agreement will let CryoLife supply veins, arteries and nonvalved cardiac conduits and patches. A13.

F.D.A. Alters Drug Review Process
In an attempt to speed the review of drugs made by biotechnology, the Food and Drug Administration said it would shift oversight of biotechnology drugs from its biologics division, which regulates products made from living organisms, to its main drug division, which oversees drugs made using chemistry. C2.

Chiron lost a court battle in which it was seeking up to $300 million from Genentech, which it accused of infringing a patent. C2.

Housing Costs Soaring in Britain
The cost of houses and apartments in Britain has risen by nearly 25 percent in the last year, fueled by the lowest interest rates and the lowest unemployment rate in four decades. C3.

France Telecom Chief Under Fire
Struggling to get France Telecom back on firm financial ground, the French government appeared to be ready to remove the chief executive, Michel Bon, who has ammassed huge debts in an attempt to transform the company from a telephone utility into a global communications competitor. The government owns 55 percent of the company. C3.

British Retailer Backs Acquisition
Arcadia, a British retailer, said its board would recommend that shareholders accept an offer to be acquired by Philip Green, a billionaire Briton, for $1.2 billion. C3.

Pressure to Relax Secrecy Laws
The European Union may consider imposing curbs on investment to and from Switzerland if the Swiss government refuses to loosen its banking secrecy laws, the financial services commissioner of the union said. C3.

R. J. Reynolds Cuts Profit Estimate
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco, the second-largest American cigarette maker, cut its second-half profit forecast to raise promotional spending and take on Philip Morris. C4.

Wal-Mart Sues Large Insurers
Wal-Mart has sued the American International Group and Hartford Life Insurance, blaming the insurers for the loss of tax deductions that cost it more than $150 million after Congress revised tax laws. C4.

Power Supplier to Buy Out Venture
PPL, a power supplier based in Allentown, Pa., agreed to pay $235 million to buy Mirant's share of their British electricity venture. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,427.20 up 143.50Nasdaq composite -- 1,295.30 up 44.3010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.02% up 0.10The euro -- $0.9809 down 0.0123The dollar -- 118.39 yen up 0.16 Graph tracks daily closings of the Dow Jones Industrials since April. Yesterday: 8,427.20 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); INSURANCE (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (74%); RETAILERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); ACQUISITIONS (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); HOME PRICES (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); TOBACCO MFG (61%); BANKING LAW (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); FRANCE TELECOM SA (83%); CRYOLIFE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); FTE (PAR) (83%); FTE (NYSE) (83%); FTE (BIT) (83%); CRY (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (56%)

PERSON: PHILIP GREEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



189 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Scale Back Corporate LiabilityPolicies 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER and JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Shellshocked by corporate scandals and fearful of the hefty payments they will have to make to settle shareholder lawsuits, the big commercial insurance companies are cutting back sharply on liability coverage for American corporations, their directors and senior executives.
 The cutbacks are taking the form of higher deductibles and lower limits on overall coverage. But the insurance companies are also demanding that corporations pay part of any court settlements or jury awards out of their own pockets. As a result, corporations in telecommunications, energy, financial services and pharmaceuticals -- where the risk of being sued is thought to be highest -- could face payments of up to half of the cost of any settlement. 
 The three leaders in this line of coverage -- the American International Group, the Chubb Group and Hartford Financial Services -- have already begun requiring some customers to share the expense of settlements. 
The cutbacks effectively limit the size of policies insurance companies will sell to any one company, said Andrew Marcell, who is in charge of insurance for directors and corporate officers at Guy Carpenter, a New York reinsurance broker and a unit of the Marsh & McLennan Companies.
"Companies that until recently were willing to provide $50 million in coverage are now offering $25 million, and companies that offered $25 million are now providing $10 million to $15 million," Mr. Marcell said. 
Enron had $350 million in this kind of coverage and some corporations had been buying up to $1 billion worth. But now, Mr. Marcell said, "$250 million in coverage is pretty hard to come by."
The sharing of the burden of settlements may also leave directors' and officers' personal assets exposed, lawyers said. 
"This is very bad news for directors and officers," said Michael Young, a partner at the law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher in New York who often represents directors and officers. "The insurance industry is sending out the word that for outside directors, insurance that provides 100 percent protection is going to be increasingly difficult to get and companies are going to have to pay through the nose for it."
John Keogh, a unit president of the American International Group, said that some corporations could avoid sharing the costs of lawsuits with insurance companies and get full coverage up to limits of their policies by paying higher premiums. But David H. McElroy, who is in charge of this kind of insurance at Hartford Financial Services, said the riskiest clients could not get full coverage at any price.
The insurers say they are merely acting in self-defense as they watch corporate giant after corporate giant collapse as they come under fire for deceptive accounting and management abuses that have drained companies like WorldCom, Global Crossing and Tyco of hundreds of millions in corporate money. 
As share prices of these companies have plunged, shareholders have turned to lawsuits in an attempt to recover at least some of their losses. 
Combining the expected costs from some of the latest lawsuits, which are still in their early stages, and scores of others that have been working their way through the courts over the last few years, insurers estimate that they will have to pay out $7.5 billion this year on liability policies for directors and officers -- but they collected only $4.5 billion in premiums.
"The expected claims paid out are going to be multiples of the premiums that have been collected," said Mr. Keogh of A.I.G. He would not comment on specific numbers. Some insurers said that they expected the actual losses to be lower, but that the industry would still lose money this year. Quietly, several insurers have also begun trying to cancel certain policies, arguing that corporate fraud makes them void -- a nightmare for executives. 
The cutback in liability coverage and increases in premiums are hitting corporations hard. Bruce S. Zaccanti, an insurance consultant at Ernst & Young, said a nationwide real estate management company he had been advising paid $3 million for $100 million in coverage last year. This year, the company's premium jumped to $4.5 million for $70 million in coverage. On top of that, he said, the deductible has jumped to $15 million from $5 million.
By forcing the companies to share the cost of settlements, the insurers also hope to prod them to fight harder to keep those costs down. When all the costs have been covered, the insurers said, the corporations are often eager to settle quickly -- rather than work for a smaller settlement. 
"There is no doubt in our minds that insureds' settlement behavior has been less reluctant than maybe it once was when there was an economic alignment," said Tony Galban, vice president and manager of directors and officers liability insurance underwriting at Chubb Specialty, a subsidiary of Chubb & Son. 
In recent years, the average size of settlements in securities lawsuits has increased drastically, rising to $16 million in 2001, according to the Securities Class Action Clearinghouse, an organization at Stanford University that tracks securities litigation. Before 1995, when a law was passed making it tougher to bring securities fraud claims, the average settlement was less than half that amount.
The possibility that individual directors and officers could be forced to dip into their own wealth may make it harder to recruit executives to serve on corporate boards, said Brooks Chamberlin, head of the global insurance practice at Korn/Ferry International, an executive search firm. Fearful of personal liability, more and more recruits are conducting their own due diligence on prospective employers, he said.
Smaller companies, companies with financial problems, companies in certain industries perceived to have a higher incidence of fraud, and companies with fewer hard assets but sizable market capitalizations will have more trouble, Mr. Chamberlin said. 
According to Mr. Young of Willkie Farr & Gallagher, directors want some assurance that somebody else will be able to pay any settlement or damage award.
"What if the company goes into bankruptcy? Then who covers?" he asked rhetorically. "Or what if the company's just not wealthy enough?"
The changes have already had the odd effect of leading to the creation of a new type of policy that will protect only independent directors. A.I.G. will sell the policies that cannot be canceled even in the case of management fraud, Mr. Keogh said. 
But Gregory M. Schmidt, general counsel at the LIN TV Corporation, an owner of television stations in several states, wondered whether companies might choose not to take on the additional cost of these policies and instead promise to cover any settlement costs owed by the directors. "The question is whether that's going to be satisfactory" to the directors and officers, he said. 
LIN's policies are not up for renewal until March, he said, but executives at the company are monitoring changes the insurers are announcing.
"We're worried," he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (94%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); ETHICS (78%); REINSURANCE (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); VERDICTS (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); BONDS (66%) CORPORATIONS; INSURANCE; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (84%); WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP (82%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); CHUBB CORP (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP; CHUBB GROUP INSURANCE; HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP 

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (84%); MHM (LSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); HIG (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); CB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D; TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



190 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Leader Sees New York Police In Vanguard of Terror Fight 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

 BODY:
New Yorkers are engaged in a war that has no foreseeable end, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly says, and the greatest challenge facing his 39,000 officers is acquiring the training and the global perspective necessary to confront the devastating impact of terrorism.
 Mr. Kelly said his ultimate aim was to have a force prepared to meet the challenge of detecting, preventing and responding to biological or chemical attacks or even weapons of mass destruction. Further, he wants his officers able to react to any incident quickly, as if it were "second nature." 
 To that end, Mr. Kelly said, he has ordered backup command posts to be set up across the city and region so the department could function in the event of multiple, simultaneous attacks. He has improved his intelligence division, including hiring a former C.I.A. official, and improved the performance of the department's language specialists. He has sent detectives to Israel and elsewhere to learn, from experts, the art of preventing targeted terror attacks. 
Further, he said, he has enlisted a medical specialist to monitor daily developments in the city's hospitals to detect any suspicious outbreaks of illness that might reflect a biological attack. And he has agreed to conduct joint drills with the Fire Department to avoid the problems in communication and coordination that marked the emergency response on Sept. 11.
"I think, in terms of counterterrorism, we're safer now than we were last year," said Mr. Kelly, who took over as the city's top law enforcement official in January. "We have done a lot. We will do more. But I think the city is a safe and hospitable place for anybody to come to. I'm living here. New Yorkers are living here and flourishing, doing well." Excerpts, Page A10. 
Mr. Kelly was police commissioner in February of 1993, when terrorists first tried to topple the World Trade Center. He expressed a painful awareness that New York's naivete and complacency led to the city's and the nation's failure to view that strike as a warning. 
He said he never expected, a year ago, when he was working in the private sector, that he would return to the police commissioner's job, though he said he knew after the attacks that he wanted to fight the fight.
As the first anniversary of the attacks approaches, Mr. Kelly is among those in the city to whom it has fallen to both reassure the public and fix a security and emergency response network found wanting when terror arrived.
Sitting in his 14th-floor office at Police Headquarters in downtown Manhattan, just blocks from the Trade Center site, he reflected on his role as the first protector of a city that has been a terrorist target four times in recent years.
As perhaps the most visible local law enforcement leader in the nation, Mr. Kelly employs a blend of pragmatism and politics when he discusses his department. He argues that an attack on New York is an attack on the United States that could fracture the nation's economy, and it appears that his goal of obtaining federal money -- $500 million to $700 million -- for training, equipment and other resources seems never to be far from his thoughts.
On the other hand, he does not see his department as hampered by the lack of funds. "We are moving forward," he said. "Would we like additional resources? Sure. Would it help us attain equipment? Yup. But I don't think right now it has prevented us from doing anything."
In the aftermath of Sept. 11, an independent consultant evaluating the Police Department's initial response that day cited a lack of training for a catastrophic event and a failure to conduct enough large drills. It found that some officers did not have a clear sense of who was in charge and that others responded directly to the site rather than to strategically devised staging areas. An overwhelming number of the officers interviewed for the study said they had received no counterterrorism training.
To prepare for a possible next strike, Mr. Kelly said, the formation of multiple command posts was essential.
"Our borough commanders are now practicing and drilling to make certain that they can, if need be, actually control the entire department," he said. "Mobilization sites have to be more clearly delineated. A lot of thought has to go into how they are selected. We have to think in terms of additional or secondary attacks."
In the recent 90-minute interview, Mr. Kelly said repeatedly that he was convinced the city, while hardly invulnerable, was substantially smarter about thwarting terror than it was last September.
He said he saw a freer flow of information from the federal government. He said that measures that included posting police officers on the city's bridges had meaningful effects, even if they might not be obvious to the public. And he said equipping members of the force with technologically advanced tools like beeper-sized radiation detectors could only be an improvement.
Throughout his conversation, Mr. Kelly referred to New York City as the safest big city in America.
"I think we in municipal government and, from what I can see, the federal government are doing everything that they can do and that they can reasonably be expected to do to prevent another attack and to prepare if, God forbid, there is another one," Mr. Kelly said. "So safe is, as I say, a relative term."
He emphasized that the department was more aware of threats and had begun thinking globally. But he said merely sending officers to other countries was not a substitute for the vast spread of intelligence that comes from the federal intelligence agencies. Still, he said, the Police Department's analysts also review foreign newspapers and Web sites, and have begun using sophisticated data-mining techniques to gather information and monitor groups.
Mr. Kelly also took the opportunity to point out one of the city's most satisfying facts: that conventional crime is at historic lows and that the city streets are safer than they have been since Mr. Kelly was born on the Upper West Side more than six decades ago.
Despite pledges by the Fire Department and the Police Department to work more closely, a formal system of emergency command has not been entirely ironed out, he said. But he said a formal system was not essential if both departments did their jobs, communicating and coordinating their efforts.
Mr. Kelly has assembled a staff whose experience has been outside the more traditional aspects of municipal policing. For example, he appointed a retired Marine lieutenant general, Frank Libutti, to head the department's counterterrorism effort and a former director of operations of the C.I.A., David Cohen, to lead the intelligence division.
The World Trade Center struck Mr. Kelly's neighborhood. He recalled finding his bookstore and his bank pulverized and spoke of standing on his roof in Battery Park City, staring at the sky where the buildings used to block the sunrise.
"I'll never be complacent because I walk out of my building every day and I see the gap in the sky," he said. But, he added, he is energized rather than exhausted by his job. 
This Sept. 11, he said, New Yorkers will flash back to where they were and what happened that day.
"But I think after that happens, I think people should realize that we are at war," he said. "There are people out there who are bent on the destruction of this country. We have to, I think, internalize that and accept that as a society, and then I think it puts other things into perspective."

A Product of His Department

EARLY YEARS: Born Manhattan, Sept. 4, 1941; Bachelor of Business Administration, Manhattan College, 1963; J.D., St. John's University law school, 1971; Master of Laws, N.Y.U. law school, 1974; Master of Public Administration, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, 1984. Combat veteran of the Vietnam War; retired as colonel, Marine Corps Reserves, 1993.

PUBLIC CAREER: Spent 31 years in the New York Police Department, holding every rank; commissioner, 1992-94. Director of international police monitors in Haiti, 1994-95. Under secretary for enforcement, U.S. Treasury, 1996-98. Commissioner, U.S. Customs Service, 1998-2000. Executive committee and vice president for the Americas of Interpol, 1996-2000.

PRIVATE SECTOR CAREER: Senior managing director, global corporate security, Bear Stearns & Co., 2001.

STYLE: Lean with a military bearing. Exercises before early-morning meetings. Wears Charvet neckties and a .38 caliber revolver. Often jumps in the back of patrol cars to gauge the sentiment of his forces.

QUOTE: "We are the safest big city in America."

GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); HOSPITALS (72%) TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; POLICE 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; KELLY, RAYMOND W (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



191 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: For Blue-Collar Riviera, A Conflict Over Identity 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

DATELINE: MYRTLE BEACH, S.C., Sept. 4 

 BODY:
It started as a run-of-the-mill municipal brouhaha over the commercial signs that festoon this city, inviting tourists to play miniature golf in a plastic jungle, buy alligator heads and shark teeth, and stuff their faces with deep-fried shrimp.
 But now it is nothing less than a battle for the soul of Myrtle Beach. 
 It all seems to boil down to one question: Is Myrtle Beach -- for generations the Coney Island of the South, a working-class resort where the streets are lined with plastic and where so much kitsch is for sale that snobbish travelers call it "Kmart by the sea" -- too tacky?
In one corner are city and county officials, flipping through the many pages of their increasingly tough and lengthy sign ordinances, issuing citations and telling everybody to tone it down.
In the other corner are the merchants, supported by the mayor, who just want to keep doing their Myrtle Beach thing: distinguishing their businesses in a cluttered landscape with eye-catching signs and giant fake creatures: dinosaurs, zebras, crabs, shrimp, dolphins and cows. 
"This community has always been known as the ticky-tacky Redneck Riviera of the South; they want to change the image," said Glenn Reed, who owns a novelty store on Route 501 a few miles northwest of Myrtle Beach. Last month Horry County officials ordered him to remove his two 3,000-pound concrete dinosaurs -- defined as "signs" under a new county ordinance -- from outside his shop.
Mr. Reed's dinosaurs are now for sale: $7,500 for the pair. Strung between their eight-inch toenails and their tall teeth is a sign saying: "I am extinct again. Horry County says we must go!" Mr. Reed said he had been told by county officials that this sign, too, would soon be illegal, under yet another new rule. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Reed got what he calls a "stay of execution" for the dinosaurs: he paid $50 for a permit that, under a provision of the county ordinance, allows him to display them 120 days a year. But he said that this limited opportunity for display was not worth all the trouble and that the dinos were still for sale. 
Mr. Reed's shop, Where on Earth, which sells "weird and dead stuff," according to the sign on the front, is just down the highway from Jamin' Leather. There, leather chaps and coats hang on racks under wall-mounted steer heads, and a mechanical mannequin named Herbie waves a leather-gloved hand from the glass window.
Behind Jamin' Leather, a 17-foot-long fiberglass cow dressed in black leather and goggles -- and outlawed as a sign last year -- straddles a van parked in a weedy lot, hidden from sight. Under the county ordinance, the cow can be driven around but not parked in front of the store, because any three-dimensional figure used to advertise merchandise in front of a business is considered a sign.
All this back-and-forth started a few years ago, when a municipal survey found that most of Myrtle Beach's 23,000 residents felt that it was too visually cluttered. At the same time, the city was beginning an effort to attract more affluent visitors.
"That's not to say that we are not designed for the average employee from Ohio, Pennsylvania or North Carolina who has a job and a week's pay and can afford to come here," said Judy Rodman, a member of the City Council who is a supporter of the tougher sign rules. "But we think to expand our economy, we're going to have to appeal to these people who can afford million-dollar houses. And part of what they don't want is a proliferation of signs. They want things to look woodsy and green and natural."
Myrtle Beach, well known as a golfing and shopping mecca, traditionally drew miners, farmers and mill workers from the South. It has experienced explosive growth in tourism and development during the last decade. According to the city's Chamber of Commerce, 13.7 million tourists now arrive each year, many by car, camper or sport utility vehicle. The area is one of the nation's top vacation and golfing destinations.
In the last two years, the city has begun to court higher-end resorts and hotels. Several upscale communities are under development on the edge of town, and the signs there are small and muted, the palm trees real.
Myrtle Beach has long had a stringent sign ordinance. But in light of the survey results about visual clutter, the City Council amended the ordinance last summer to restrict signs further, and officials began enforcing the rules more aggressively.
Under the amended ordinance, the type and size of signs in public view -- that is, those visible from main roads like Route 17 and Route 501 -- are subject to a host of limitations. A business with a small storefront, for example, simply may not have an enormous sign in the window. The city is also cracking down on commercial signs -- and images -- affixed to the tops of vehicles, including a lobster, a crab, a hot dog and a shrimp. 
Once the tougher rules took effect, local businesses began to protest, and public officials began to take sides. The word "tacky" reared its ugly head in the local newspaper.
Chuck Martino, a member of the City Council who supports the stricter rules, was elected to a second term last November. He did not use a single sign during his campaign, which featured the slogan "You won't see my signs cluttering your roadways!" 
"The reality is that people complain, but they aren't looking for any kind of compromise," Mr. Martino said. "They want the whole sign ordinance abolished. But that day is just not going to come." 
Mayor Mark Struthers McBride, who has been at odds with the City Council over the issue, calls supporters of the tougher rules "sign Nazis" and says they are trying to strip Myrtle Beach of its identity.
"They've gone too far," declared Mr. McBride, who owns Crabmans Seafood and Country Buffet on Route 17 here and says he fears that his own sign, with its large red neon crab, is next. "We're not Hilton Head, we're not Charleston, we're Myrtle Beach. People come here, they want to see the lights, they want to see the flash. You don't mess with success."
Following in the city's footsteps, Horry County (pronounced or-EE), whose jurisdiction outside the city includes the location of Mr. Reed's store and his dinosaurs, made its own sign ordinance tougher last year. 
"The signs were becoming bigger and more garish," said Roland Meyer, the county's zoning administrator. "There was no control over them."
What the owner of Jamin' Leather, Jamie Keats, finds so frustrating about the county's problem with his cow is that he had a previous run-in with the city's sign law when he ran his business in Myrtle Beach. One December, he received a written warning from city inspectors because Herbie the mannequin, dressed up then as Santa Claus, was standing outside the store on the sidewalk, waving. Herbie was a sign, they said, and not allowed.
It was soon after Mr. Keats had moved his store to Route 501, outside the boundaries of Myrtle Beach, that Horry County toughened its own ordinance last year. County inspectors then came along and said the cow was a sign and could not be parked in front of the store to advertise the leather goods. 
Mr. Keats is appealing the ruling, contending that the cow should be exempted because he began using it as a sign before the county's new sign ordinance took effect.
"We're just trying to create a little spirit," Mr. Keats said, adding that he had spent $5,000 on his cow, hiring the same company that built a giant hot dog, a crab, a lobster and a shrimp.
"Wait a minute," he said, "I haven't seen the shrimp in a while."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Make-believe animals are no strangers to the many businesses along Route 17 in Myrtle Beach. (Wade Spees for The New York Times) Map of South Carolina highlighting Myrtle Beach: Myrtle Beach has experienced explosive growth in tourism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); ORDINANCES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); FIBERGLASS (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (76%); TRENDS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SIGNS 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (99%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) MYRTLE BEACH (SC)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



192 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Data Show Weak Economy
The jobless rate fell to 5.7 percent last month, from 5.9 percent in July, but the data offered little hope that the economy would soon emerge from its prolonged weakness. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Prison for Providence Mayor
Vincent A. Cianci Jr., the mayor of Providence, R.I., was sentenced to five years in prison for presiding over a City Hall that a judge called "a criminal enterprise." PAGE A13

An All-Williams Final Again
Venus Williams defeated Amelie Mauresmo to reach the U.S. Open final. She will play her sister, Serena, who beat Lindsay Davenport. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

A's Streak Stops at 20
Oakland lost in Minnesota, 6-0, six victories short of the major league record set by the 1916 New York Giants. PAGE D1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); SENTENCING (87%); LITIGATION (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (56%)

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



193 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
BUSH ASKS LEADERS IN 3 KEY NATIONS FOR IRAQ SUPPORT

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
President Bush called the leaders of Russia, China and France today to seek their support as he tried to build an international coalition against Saddam Hussein, but he appeared, in his initial approaches, to have made little headway in convincing them that the need for action was urgent. 
 Soon after his talk with Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, the Kremlin spokesman said Mr. Putin had expressed "serious doubts that there are grounds for the use of force in connection with Iraq from the standpoint of international law or from a political standpoint." 
 France's president, Jacques Chirac, insisted anew that any military action had to come with the approval of the United Nations. Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, said after meeting with Mr. Chirac that "it would be unwise to attack Iraq now." 
But White House officials gave a different account, and cautioned against taking the public statements from Moscow and Paris too literally. A senior administration official insisted that all three leaders had indicated that they were open to hearing Mr. Bush's case for taking some kind of action to hold Iraq to the agreements it signed with the United Nations at the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991. Those agreements call not only for inspections, but also for limits on the range of its missiles and for ending any program to develop weapons of mass destruction. 
"They all agreed that Iraq posed a threat," said a White House official who was familiar with the three conversations. "They were all wrestling, however, about what to do about it, how far to go. So the president told each of them he would send a team over to make the case."
At the United Nations next week, Mr. Bush's aides have made clear that the president will say that the organization will have to enforce the 1991 cease-fire agreement. White House officials say they have not yet decided what means the president will suggest that the United Nations use, including whether he might call for highly intrusive inspections that are backed up by military force.
But, Mr. Bush has made clear in his public statements in Washington, and yesterday in Kentucky and Indiana, that if the international community failed to respond he would have the United States take whatever steps he determined were necessary to enforce that disarmament agreement and change the leadership of Iraqi.
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain made parallel calls to world leaders today, as he prepared to fly to the United States to meet with Mr. Bush about Iraq on Saturday afternoon at Camp David. But Mr. Blair is walking a fine line between European reluctance and his own instincts to side with his greatest ally in what Mr. Bush insists is a necessary step to safeguard against terrorism.
It is clear that the two men have a lot of convincing to do, even among close allies. Today Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada said he would dispute the need for an attack on Iraq when he meets with Mr. Bush in Detroit on Monday. He added that he would challenge Mr. Bush to show him proof that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction and has the capacity and will to use them. 
The White House gave no independent description of the conversation with President Jiang Zemin of China, and Beijing issued no statement. 
Meanwhile, the White House pressed for Congress to vote for a resolution supporting action against Iraq before it leaves Washington in October. That timetable was thrown into doubt on Thursday when the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said he was "more concerned about getting this done right than getting it done quickly."
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, sidestepped a question about whether Mr. Bush believed that he reached an informal agreement with Congressional leaders on Wednesday to hold some kind of vote before they depart in October for the mid-term election campaign. 
The issue arose in part because Senator Don Nickles, an Oklahoma Republican, said today that he had asked the president during a meeting at the White House, "Do you want to get it done before we leave?" and he said, 'Yes.' " 
"I think we should honor that request," Mr. Nickles said.
Some Democrats said they suspected that Mr. Bush was setting an artificial deadline to force debate of the issue before the November elections.
It is widely assumed here -- though the political thesis is unproved -- that a debate about Iraq before the elections works in favor of Republicans, while a focus on the economy would benefit Democrats.
In the White House, a debate is still under way about exactly what strategy Mr. Bush should pursue at the United Nations on Thursday, where he is planning to speak on Thursday. He will also be meeting the leaders of Japan, Pakistan and India, along with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, who narrowly escaped an assassination attempt on Thursday.
One camp in the administration, led by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, has urged that the United States demand one more time that arms inspectors be let into Iraq, fully expecting that Mr. Hussein will delay or impede those inspections. Another camp, including Vice President Dick Cheney, has warned that over-involving the United Nations is a trap, and that Mr. Hussein would drag out the inspection process, playing a cat-and-mouse game while the West was paralyzed in inaction.
One of Mr. Bush's aides compared the current debate to last year's arguments over missile defense and Mr. Bush's resolve to pull out of the Antiballistic Missile Treaty with Russia. "The president was told everyone will oppose you, you will damage important alliances," the aide said. "But little by little, the arguments melted away."
In this case, however, the objections to the president's approach go far beyond Europe. The Arab nations have expressed strong objections. Today President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea told foreign correspondents that the administration had ignored him in consultations and said "the most difficult question" was whether his government would support the United States in Iraq. 
Mr. Kim's fear is that pre-emptive strike on Iraq would undercut his efforts to reach a peace accord with North Korea, which Mr. Bush has identified as part of the "axis of evil," along with Iran and Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, calling from the Oval Office on Friday morning, talked for a total of 30 minutes with the presidents of France, Russia and China. (The White House)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DESERT STORM (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (70%); APPROVALS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); TONY BLAIR (50%) SANGER, DAVID E; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) INDIANA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GULF STATES (57%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; CHINA; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



194 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-5

Bush Calls World Leaders Seeking Support on Iraq
President Bush called the leaders of Russia, China and France to seek their support as he tried to build an international coalition against Saddam Hussein. He appeared, in his initial approaches, to have made little headway in persuading them that the need for action was urgent. A1

Bomb Has Israel on Alert
Israel is on high alert after the interception of a huge bomb, and officials warned that more attacks were possible, as observance of the Jewish New Year got under way. Although that bomb was stopped, a less powerful one destroyed a tank in Gaza, killing the driver. Meanwhile, the Israeli Army continued its raids into Palestinian towns. A2

China Reverses AIDS Stance
China raised its estimate of the number infected with H.I.V.-AIDS to one million and said it would manufacture a full complement of AIDS drugs if Western patent holders did not lower prices. Chinese officials for the first time publicly asked for international help with the country's AIDS problem, which they had insisted they could handle on their own. A1

Holocaust Museum Bombed
A firebomb badly damaged a Holocaust museum near the northeast German town of Wittstock. Police officials posted a $10,000 reward for information leading to an arrest. Half the museum's exhibition space was destroyed, and anti-Semitic graffiti were painted on a nearby monument's walls. A5

German Terror Arrests
A Turkish man and his American fiancee were arrested with explosive chemicals and five pipe bombs in their apartment and held on charges of planning a terrorist attack on a major American military base in Heidelberg on or about Sept. 11, German authorities announced. A1

Afghan Attack Inquiry
Afghan officials said preliminary investigations had shown that the attempt to kill the Afghan leader, Hamid Karzai, and the huge car bomb in Kabul on Thursday appeared to have been the work of the Taliban, Al Qaeda or associated groups. A7

World Briefing A4

NATIONAL A12-13

Administration Highlights Effort on Iraq Opinion
White House officials said the administration was following a meticulously planned strategy to persuade the public, Congress, and the allies of the need to confront the threat from Saddam Hussein. A1

Voting Overhaul Bill Stalled
House and Senate negotiators said that efforts to pass a bill that would clean up the nation's voting procedures were falling apart as partisan disagreements grew with the approach of the fall elections. A1

Boys Guilty of Murdering Father
A Florida jury convicted 13-year-old Alex King and 14-year-old Derek King of murdering their sleeping father and setting their house on fire to cover up their actions. A12

Bin Laden Aide Details Plot
A reputed senior aide to Osama bin Laden admitted in federal court that he devised a plan to take hostages in an effort to win freedom for himself and four other New York inmates. A7

Rhode Island Mayor Sentenced
Vincent A. Cianci Jr., the charismatic mayor of Providence, was sentenced to five years and four months in prison for presiding over an administration that the judge called a "criminal enterprise." A13

Public and Private Ceremonies
The nation will be watching Washington and New York on the coming Sept. 11 anniversary, but elsewhere in the country, there will be thousands of smaller services. A9

Rival Queens Head to Pageant
Two beauty queens headed for the Miss America competition after a federal judge refused to immediately decide which one is the real Miss North Carolina. A12

Malaria Cases in Virginia
Two people in Loudoun County, Va., have contracted a nonfatal form of malaria, a rare occurrence among Americans who have not traveled abroad, health officials say. A13

Tissue Company Gets Go-Ahead
Federal regulators have agreed to allow CryoLife Inc. to resume limited distribution of human tissue for transplants in cases where patients have no other medical options. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Congress Holds Session In Lower Manhattan
ongress convened a special meeting in New York to pay tribute to the victims and the heroes of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and, in the words of the speakers, to show the world that America has been made stronger by the assaults on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. B1

Former Mob Figure Sentenced
Salvatore Gravano, the former Mafia hit man and government informant, was sentenced to 20 years in prison by a federal judge in Brooklyn for buying and selling the drug Ecstasy. The judge gave Mr. Gravano, who is known as Sammy the Bull, the maximum possible sentence. B3

2 Bodies Found in Peru
The bodies of Court Demas, 29,a software developer from Ramsey, N.J., and his friend Raquel Paredes, 29, a graphic designer from Lima, Peru, were discovered in the Peruvian countryside by hikers. They were apparently murdered during a trek through the high Andes. B5

Religion Journal B7

SPORTS D1-8

Another Williams Matchup
Venus Williams beat Amelie Mauresmo, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4, in the United States Open semifinals, while Serena Williams defeated Lindsay Davenport, 6-3, 7-5. The sisters will meet in the championship match today. D1

Oakland's Winning Streak Ends
The Athletics lost, 6-0, to Minnesota, ending Oakland's American League record-breaking streak at 20. D1

ARTS & IDEAS B9-16

OBITUARIES A16

Andrew Forge
A painter, critic, teacher and former dean of painting at the Yale School of Art, he was 78. A16

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Unemployment Drops 0.2%
American employers added 39,000 jobs in August, but the entire gain came from the hiring of government workers, like airport security guards. C1

Airline Reverses Some Limits
Mileage earned on cheap, nonrefundable US Airways tickets will once again count toward qualification for the various tiers of frequent flier status. The airline was reacting to the anger of some business travelers. C1

F.C.C. to Review Media Rules
The Federal Communications Commission will begin a process that could lead to an overhaul of the rules limiting the growth of the U.S.'s largest media conglomerates. C1

Doubts About Auto Sales Boom
A report by Goldman Sachs is pessimistic about the underlying health of the Big Three automakers. The report says that huge incentives and extra consumer cash coming from a boom in home mortgage refinancing cannot be sustained. C1

Cuts in Corporate Insurance
The big commercial insurance companies are raising deductibles and cutting back sharply on coverage for American corporations, their directors and senior executives. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Packing heat on the flight deck; the battle over drug discounts; folly in the face of famine; judicial endorsements.

Column: Bill Keller

Bridge B12
TV Listings B16
Crossword B15
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); ARRESTS (87%); AL-QAEDA (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VANDALISM (76%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); TALIBAN (76%); POLICE FORCES (71%); ARMIES (71%); EXPLOSIVES (71%); ARSON (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); ROSH HASHANAH (70%); LITIGATION (70%); FIRES (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); GRAFFITI (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (69%); VERDICTS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); MURDER (55%); PATENTS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (68%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) ISRAEL (95%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (88%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002 



195 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Bowling Alleys and Big Hair 

BYLINE:  By Jennifer Reese; Jennifer Reese is a writer in San Francisco.

 BODY:
 THE LAST GOOD CHANCE
By Tom Barbash.
440 pp. New York:
Picador USA. $24.
 Although he lives in San Francisco and has taught at elite creative writing programs like Stanford and Iowa, Tom Barbash has set his first novel in a studiously gritty corner of upstate New York -- parts of which he refers to as "the new American ghetto, the fouled and deserted heartland." He has invented an oversize, diverse cast of characters, devised a complicated plot and wrestled earnestly with economic and environmental issues. No navel-gazing or thinly veiled autobiography here. "The Last Good Chance" is an ambitious piece of work, a brash, big-strokes book that strenuously avoids all the dreaded pitfalls of the typical first novel.
And this turns out to be a mixed blessing. It's tough to gauge how much influence Tom Wolfe's famous philippic on the state of American fiction -- that it has become static and recondite, and is fatally disengaged with the real world -- has had on young writers. Wolfe has extolled the virtues of Dreiser and Zola and wondered why more of our languid, self-indulgent novelists don't whip out their notebooks and report on the carnival that surrounds them.
Barbash's book would, on the surface, seem to answer, almost point by point, Wolfe's prescription. It is outward-looking, large, naturalistic and stuffed to the gills with rococo American types. In his fictional town of Lakeland, Skoal-chewing young men cruise in Camaros and throw back shots of Jaegermeister. (As one character puts it, Lakeland is "bowling alleys and 'Charlie's Angels' hair.") A native son named Jack Lambeau, now the author of a celebrated book on urban design, has returned from New York City to oversee a new commercial development on the benighted town's waterfront. The development, it is hoped, will rejuvenate Lakeland and, as Jack sees it, "reclaim not just the waterfront but the relevance and self-confidence of the entire region."
Lakeland's slippery, boosterish mayor is doing everything he can, legal or not, to make this happen. Meanwhile, local cranks assail Jack with criticism of the development; they are worried it will attract blacks and Jews. Accompanying Jack home to Lakeland is Anne, his beautiful fiancee, who has given up a job at a Manhattan advertising agency to live in a drafty farmhouse and paint. Anne reasons that while Lakeland is "not as ascetic or inspirational as the Aix of Cezanne, it was a perfectly good town for an artist to inhabit for a year or two."
Or maybe not. For one thing, Lakeland is riddled with hazardous waste, some of it buried on the very waterfront property that Jack is developing. Unknown to Jack, his brother, an underachiever named Harris, is being paid to dump barrels of this toxic "spumoni" secretly into farmland. Waste isn't all Harris has to dispose of: a co-worker keels over into a trench he's just dug on an onion farm (he "choked in poison") and Harris is charged with storing the 300-pound corpse. Meanwhile, puppies that wander onto the polluted land are going blind. Steven Turner, a newspaper reporter, decides to investigate. Turner happens to be Jack Lambeau's close friend. Originally from Brooklyn, he smokes pot, reads Gogol and wonders why he has problems committing to women. That is, until he meets and falls desperately in love with Anne.
There are layers and layers of rich material here. The collision of cosmopolitan types like Anne with middle America is a mother lode for the sharp social observer. The politics of real estate development can be riveting. The book has a little suspense and a romantic triangle. There's a local boy who tries to come home again, and some genial dark comedy reminiscent of Elmore Leonard when Barbash focuses on the quasi-criminal antics of Harris, the book's most flawed and most likable character.
And yet these opportunities are, for the most part, squandered. The book has scope and promise, but it never comes together. To start with, the characters are surprisingly flat. The biggest problem is Anne, who ostensibly fascinates both Jack and Turner but who isn't especially fascinating on the page. Instead, she is perfect -- slender, "disconcertingly attractive," intelligent, graceful, "a good dancer, and she knew it." After a morning of painting, she eats soft brie for lunch, washed down by a civilized glass of wine. She loves yoga and it is regularly noted how adorable and sexy she looks in paint-spattered jeans and tank tops. She also has vague emotional breakdowns during which she never does anything unappealing -- yell, nag, put on weight. Rather, she becomes distracted, helpless and apparently even lovelier for the touch of melancholy. Her character has all the vitality of a paper doll.
The central male characters, though less idealized, also seem underbaked. Turner and Jack are both attractive, athletic young men who like to jog, play basketball and drink beer. Although they have been given different roles, they're all but indistinguishable. Jack, who looks like "a bookish water-polo player," is described by a reporter as "supremely bright, and perhaps a touch cocky." Turner is "funny and bright, if at times a bit aloof." "He's got issues," an old friend once told Jack, and she "left it at that."
Barbash, too, essentially leaves it at that. To be fair, he has given Turner a history of generic 20-something "issues," like relationship problems and career angst. But these aren't explored, deepened or credibly resolved over the course of the novel.
The portrait of the town suffers from some of the same superficiality. Although there are vivid lines of description -- Barbash is good with language -- he never burrows under Lakeland's surface in the way that Richard Russo and David Gates have laid claim to the same upstate territory. Barbash's observations about Lakeland lack deep affection -- or deep hostility. Either one would have breathed life into the work.
Did Barbash simply overreach? From its people to its plot, this novel seems underdone. Barbash often summarizes when he should dramatize, as if he intended to go back and write in the juicy scenes later, to put flesh on his characters once he had the book's gargantuan structure hammered into place -- but then never got around to it. "The Last Good Chance" is like a set of preliminary sketches for a big, plummy novel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); CREATIVE WRITING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); BOWLING CENTERS (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: REESE, JENNIFER; BARBASH, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: LAST GOOD CHANCE, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



196 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Lost in the Labyrinth of Oil 

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Ruta; Suzanne Ruta is the author of "Stalin in the Bronx: And Other Stories."

 BODY:
 THE DARK BRIDE
By Laura Restrepo.
Translated by Stephen A. Lytle.
358 pp. New York:
Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95.
 NEARLY a million Colombians have abandoned the country in the last five years. For those who stay behind, life, in the fourth decade of civil war, is dangerous and difficult. But as a Spanish proverb has it, there's no bad but brings some good. Literature flourishes as threats and violence drive a generation of investigative journalists into what one former newsman calls "the exile of books."
Laura Restrepo made the switch from reporter to novelist a decade ago with great panache. When death threats from a mafia kingpin forced cancellation of her television mini-series in Bogota about drug cartels, she used her extensive research in a novel instead: "Leopard in the Sun" (1993) is an outrageous performance, a Garcia Marquez family saga reformatted by Quentin Tarantino. The same breezy elegance and quick wit enliven "The Angel of Galilea" (1995), which won major awards in Mexico and France. In it, a ditsy reporter for a Bogota magazine finds love and transcendence with a possibly divine denizen of the city's poorest slums. 
"The Dark Bride" is another reporter's novel, full of tantalizing repartee and details too piquant and quirky to have been invented. The setting is Colombia's oil fields -- in Restrepo's phrase, suggestively merging the worlds of George W. Bush and Jorge Luis Borges, "the oil labyrinth." As Colombia's oil output increased sharply in the 1990's, guerrilla groups attacked pipelines, while paramilitary organizations linked to the Colombian military attacked the guerrillas, and peasants were massacred in the cross-fire, or forced to run for their lives. Lately, the United States has entered the equation, since recent antiterrorism legislation sanctions broader military assistance than before. Foreign oil companies are part of the game. Occidental Petroleum, for example, provides Colombian soldiers who protect its pipeline with everything from uniforms to condoms, under the heading of "nonlethal" assistance.
While reporting on the human cost of this oil war from the heart of the country, the jungle town of Barrancabermeja, Restrepo met old-timers who told her such fantastic stories about events 50 years ago that she knew she had to put them in a novel (in fact, two novels; "La Multitud Errante" -- meaning "The Wandering Crowd" -- was published last year in Spanish and is still being translated). The title of "The Dark Bride" refers to a starving motherless Indian child, "a wild-haired, slippery, surly tadpole" who metamorphoses into a legendary beauty, the most sought-after prostitute in the oil fields beyond the mythic river town of Tora in the 40's, when the fabled Tropical Oil Company, the Troco, a branch of Standard Oil of New Jersey, had the concession to Colombia's oil. 
For girls like Sayonara (the young woman's exotic working name) -- orphaned, outcast victims of rigid race and class barriers -- prostitution was the only alternative to starvation or convent servitude. Restrepo says she found the right tone for this novel in Guy de Maupassant's story "La Maison Tellier," about a kindly, practical madam who takes a day off with her girls to attend a niece's first Communion at a church in rural Normandy where, unlike in the cities, no shame attaches to prostitution.
The story unfolds slowly, deep in the jungle, by the banks of the Magdalena, a sluggish river full of crocodiles. The novel is nearly half over before we learn what fearful atrocities far upriver marked the heroine for life. Some chapters are lovely set pieces. A riverside picnic of dark-skinned women with flowers in their hair evokes Gauguin. Every character and scene in the Maupassant tale gets its tropical equivalent.
The reporter-narrator puzzles out the meaning of her story with engaging open-mindedness. She may doubt that such a genre as "tropical tragedy" exists: "The excessive light of the tropics blurs the sharp contours of any drama . . . and finally dissolves it in forgetfulness." But she claims tragic stature for her working class heroes. Sayonara's tragedy rises from her love for an oilman, whose only loyalty is to "skinny Emilia," an old derrick shipped down from the United States to drill 3,000-foot wells. If prostitution is a lifeline of sorts for Sayonara, for the oilmen, their employment was a key to heaven: "In the middle of that vast, drifting humanity, to become a petrolero meant salvation." 
In this fragile environment there is a brief, happy symbiosis, as a veteran of the Troco recalls in the 90's: "The petrolero worked hard and earned his money. The prostituta worked hard and ended up with the petrolero's money. They say that love for money is a sin, but I say it's nothing more than the law of economy, because bread doesn't fall from the sky for anyone." 
Timely messages about globalization, the shibboleths of free trade and economic growth float through this river of a novel. The narrator looks back on the 40's as a golden age, when all men asked in Tora was the chance to dream a little. The oilmen, living for rare trysts with the demure, elegant beauties of the town, are compared to gallant troubadours, who love from a distance. This is a far cry from the Colombia of tacky billionaire drug lords and casual murder.
When the oilmen strike, their demands are not for money but for decent meals in the company canteen. The company calls in the army; there is a massacre; the prostitutes stage a sympathy strike, hiding hunted oil workers in their closets . A brief, euphoric rebellion fails. The company concludes that men with wives and children are more docile than romantic loners. The prostitutes' houses are razed, replaced by one-family bungalows, and an era of enforced respectability dawns in Colombia.
Some of this bad news -- and it still is news in Latin America -- feels predictable or coy in the telling. The mysterious Sayonara tends to vanish into her own myth. The narrator's exuberant rhetoric doesn't always convince, despite the best efforts of the translator, Stephen A. Lytle. But perhaps it's not meant to. The narrator burbles so that her ancient informants can interrupt with tart, terse, reductive quips. These old folks stranded in their backwaters, living in "impeccable poverty," embody enduring Colombian virtues: "the cordial treatment and beautiful manners . . . that despite the ravages of violence you still find everywhere in this country, even on the part of people who don't know a thing about you." The real romance in this novel -- the source of its liveliest passages -- is a reporter's love for her indomitable sources. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); LITERATURE (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); CIVIL WAR (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); CARTELS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (64%); ARMED FORCES (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (54%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (52%)

TICKER: OXY (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (52%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) RUTA, SUZANNE; RESTREPO, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%) COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: DARK BRIDE, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



197 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2359 words

HEADLINE: A Nation of Travelers Hard to Pin Down 

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS; GLENN COLLINS is a reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
AS the nation edgily approaches this anniversary of terrorist horror, the mood of the American traveler could hardly be more idiosyncratic, contrary and -- face it -- harassed. 
 There have been plenty of generalizations about Americans' penchant for regional cocooning and their rampant Jetway aversion. But sweeping pronouncements do little justice to the mosaic of ironies that is now the country's travel agenda. 
 Even seemingly benign backwaters of tourism are confronting anomalies. Consider, for example, cruise lock at the Hubbard Glacier. "It was hurry up and turn around," said Sanford Teller, a passenger from New York who for years had anticipated a leisurely cruise past the Alaskan natural wonder. Stellar views -- and not personal security -- were on his mind when he booked the cabin with his wife, Roberta Dougherty. 
But Mr. Teller did not reckon on the unprecedented pod of about 25 cruise ships plying those waters during his voyage in July. Many ships had been moved from the Mediterranean and Baltic because skittish tourists assumed Alaska was safely remote.
And so, he and some 1,900 other eager passengers on the Sea Princess trained their cameras on the legendary glacier as it hove into sight -- and then helplessly watched it retreat as the liner made way for the assembly-line procession of the cruise megaships waiting their turn. 
These days, traditional travel certainties are as dodgy as the Dow Jones industrial average. "It has been the most complex travel season we've seen in a very long while," said David Barna, chief of communications for the National Park Service. 
In a sense, it is a wonder anyone travels at all, considering the quotidian headline crawl: Tanking retirement funds. Terrorist alerts. Suicide bombings. Indian-Pakistani nuclear posturing. Western forest fires. European floods. Airline bankruptcies. 
"There is a tremendous feeling of unease," said Malcolm M. Knapp, a hospitality and restaurant consultant in Manhattan. "Most people have exceeded their point scale for stress." 
America is venturing forth nevertheless, perhaps because travel is an attribute of a zealously guarded lifestyle for many who hold dear the fundamental freedom of the getaway and stubbornly refuse to let terrorists dictate their vacation itineraries. 
Despite the gnawing economic downturn, leisure travel -- which dried up after Sept. 11 -- has rebounded. Volume (measured by the number of person-trips by Americans) increased about 3.1 percent in 2001 and is expected to increase again this year, by another 1.3 percent, according to the Travel Industry Association of America. 
"But travel spending levels were down 9 percent this summer," said Cathy Keefe, the association's manager of media relations, who projected a drop of a few percentage points for 2002. This, after domestic travelers spent $27 billion less on travel in 2001 and foreign visitors to the United States spent $9.7 billion less. 
Through the year, travelers' reactions have been highly diverse. About 15 percent expressed only cautionary concerns about future trips, seeing the terrorist attacks as an aberration, said Douglas K. Shifflet, president of D. K. Shifflet & Associates, a travel industry market researcher who has surveyed thousands of travelers. 
A much larger group -- about 35 percent of male and female travelers on the East and West Coasts -- "were fairly cowed by the events of last fall," Mr. Shifflet said, "and are traveling at about half the rate they used to."
Only 5 percent of travelers said that they were prepared to take severe action against other passengers who posed a threat. About 10 percent of travelers, mostly in the Midwest, said they didn't pay that much attention to the news and didn't feel seriously threatened themselves. 
Of course, there was also a carpe diem group -- about 15 percent, largely moderate-income females -- who took the terrorist attacks as a signal to travel more, Mr. Shifflet said. "They were glad to have survived, and vowed to travel more in the future -- even going into debt to have the experience," he said.
Nowhere is the new touristic dichotomy more apparent than at the nation's 385 national parks, seashores and memorials, which drew 280 million visitors in 2001, 5 million fewer than in 2000, Mr. Barna said. 
Attendance at such iconic national-park destinations as Yosemite and the South Rim of the Grand Canyon is down 15 percent this year, he said, due to economic worries and a decrease in foreign visitors. Formerly some 40 million strong, they used to amount to about 15 percent of park tourists.
Yet such places as Civil War battlefields, presidents' homes and the Liberty Bell have been mobbed because "they tend to be local destinations in a time when people are traveling locally," Mr. Barna said, "and the events of Sept. 11 have given many Americans a renewed sense of patriotism." 
In the end, uncertainty reigns and the park service "doesn't know if we're going to be down in 2002 -- due to the loss of international visitation -- or up because of the interest in patriotic sites," Mr. Barna said. 
The patriotic travel impulse -- and perhaps a yearning for the good old days -- has enriched not just parks but also many regional institutions, such as the Mariners' Museum in Newport News, Va. Since the summer travel season kickoff in May, the museum has gotten 1,500 visitors a week instead of 1,000, according to its president, John B. Hightower. 
The patriot bonus has not, however, gone very far to offset the deficit at big-city museums caused by the steep slump in air travel, which is down 7 percent for the year; tourist air-travel destinations as utterly disparate as the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Hawaii have been affected. 
Millions of air travelers have overcome their fears after Sept. 11 and resigned themselves to unprecedented delays, schedule cutbacks and root-canalish security checks. But for others, the indignity of being patted down in questionable airport security rituals is hard to accept. 
Ida R. Chamberlin of Newfane, Vt., said she couldn't believe she was the only one chosen for scrutiny in a line of 30 travelers at Raleigh-Durham International Airport in North Carolina last month. 
"I look like the little old lady from Dubuque with the tennis shoes," said Ms. Chamberlin, who is 70 and was, in fact, wearing tennis shoes. 
Her purse was checked, she was wanded, and then she had to remove said tennis shoes in front of the entire line of travelers. "It was humiliating enough to be seen as a risk to one's nation, without having everyone else invited to watch," she said. "Couldn't they screen me off?" 
When Ms. Chamberlin politely told security personnel that she felt embarrassed, they suggested she take the train. "I'm not a big traveler," she said, "but I don't know if I'll be flying domestically again soon." Delta Air Lines has estimated that airlines will lose $3.8 billion in 2002 thanks to passenger annoyance about security and other air-travel inconveniences. 
Conversely, other fliers embrace the most stringent scrutiny. "Even security in Morocco was much better than that in the United States," said Jane Green, who owns an insurance agency in Indianapolis and took an adventure trip to Morocco in October. "At J.F.K., it was so cursory," she said. 
For many reasons, even very frequent international fliers are taking a pass. "I was never afraid of flying and I'm not afraid now," said Jean Tarbel, a 75-year-old retired law librarian in Denver who used to fly to Europe and Asia several times a year. "It's the money situation. The way the market has been, it is not the time to be spending frivolously." 
Europe -- the destination for half of all Americans making an overseas trip -- lost 1 percentage point of market share to other regions in 2001, and this summer Americans spent nearly $2 billion less in Europe than they did last summer, according to Einar Gustavsson, United States chairman for the European Travel Commission in Manhattan, a trade group for 33 nations. He said that by the end of this month more than five million Americans will have flown to European destinations this year, down 15 percent over the same period last year.
France has seen a 10 to 12 percent decline in American tourists since the beginning of the year, said Patrick Goyet, director of the French Government Tourist Office in the United States. 
Preliminary reports suggest that Britain is doing better than expected, but Spain and Italy have lost tourists because of cuts in airline seating capacity, said Neil S. Martin, marketing consultant for the commission. 
In general, the Caribbean is doing well, and Latin America has also benefited from the shift in tourist destinations. Travelers are understandably averse to what they perceive as troubled areas, said Harriet F. Friedlander, chairwoman of Academic Arrangements Abroad, which is offering 125 high-end museum tours this year. Her company has removed Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia and Syria as destinations. 
Educational and museum-oriented trips are holding up very well, Ms. Friedlander said. The company's business was off 45 percent immediately after Sept. 11, but the company now projects that it will be down 5 percent this year. 
And adventure travel is making a comeback, after a serious slump. Nicholas Ballard, marketing director for San Francisco-based Geographic Expeditions, said that high-end adventure travel at his company is down 25 percent over last year. Geographic organizes travel for 4,500 people a year on small group tours to exotic destinations, costing $2,600 to $6,800; individual private clients may spend more than $200,000. "Our regular clients are coming back," Mr. Ballard said, "but there aren't as many new clients now." 
The cruise industry had 6.9 million travelers from North America in 2001, up 1 percent over the previous year. Bob Sharak, executive director of the Cruise Lines International Association, predicts 7.4 million passengers by the end of the year, a 7.3 percent increase over 2001. Partly because of tighter budgets or a desire not to be away from home too long, two- to five-day cruises are now more popular.
Cruise travel has also saved the day for some destinations like the Bahamas, where 85 percent of tourists come from the United States. The number of visitors has been running about the same as last year thanks to sea arrivals, which were up 5.3 percent; air arrivals were down 8.7 percent. 
"Our ships are going out full," Mr. Sharak said, "but the scary part is that the booking curves have changed. People used to book six months in advance. Now it's six weeks. We're chewing our nails." About 20 percent of American travelers now plan trips within two weeks of taking them, and about half of travelers one month before, according to the Travel Industry Association of America. 
"You don't have to plan as far in advance when you're going to hop in the car," said Andrea Stueve, the association's director of market research. Car travel in the United States is up slightly over last year, by 1 to 2 percent, "because a lot of car trips are substituting for shorter airplane trips," said Mantill Williams, spokesman for the AAA. 
In what some think of as the new car culture, local and regional theme parks are doing well, while destination parks like Walt Disney World have suffered without air travelers to feed them, most notably international visitors. "Visitation at all our parks is off roughly 6 percent from last year," said Jacquee Polak, a spokeswoman for Walt Disney World, "and international visitation particularly is a challenge." 
Beyond this, "United States travelers are shying away from big cities, both here and abroad," said Ron Erdmann, deputy director of the Office of Travel and Tourism Industries of the United States Department of Commerce.
The age-old hotel goal of putting heads in beds has been frustrated by the decline in air travel, especially in luxury hotels, dependent as they are on high-end foreigners and business road warriors. Hotels that once welcomed air travelers have embraced drive-in patrons, who have replaced them to some extent. 
Air arrivals in San Francisco were off 16.8 percent during the first six months of the year, and hotel prices plummeted 15 percent in comparison to last year, to an average of $149.04 per room.
The imminent question for the travel industry is the national mourning and reflection this Wednesday. Many fear that the anniversary will cast a pall over the fall travel season. But they may underestimate the contrariness of the new American traveler. "For the diehard, this will be the best of times to travel, since there will be fewer people milling around the Pyramids," said Mr. Ballard of Geographic Expeditions. 
Looking forward, seasoned travelers are taking their chances. "The danger is that this terrorist war is going to go on and on," said Ms. Green, the adventure traveler from Indianapolis. "I don't think we are ever again going to have that feeling, in an airport, that it's open and free."

Happy campers
 Airlines, hotels, travel packagers and tour operators have indulged in bargain offers and promotions, putting up a price-cutting pinata. And the car, the recreational vehicle and the campground have become America's new fail-safe options when bargain-hunting fails. 
"In this economy everyone wants a deal," said Butch Street, a management analyst with the National Park Service. "People are waiting on Priceline, and they are waiting longer and longer to finalize. And if the price doesn't go down, then they don't go anywhere." Or they head for the van. 
Visits at Kampgrounds of America's nearly 500 branches are up about 2 percent over all, and up 4 percent in the Northeast, said Mike Gast, a KOA spokesman in Billings, Mont., and sales of trailers and motor homes are up. 
Many travelers are renewing family ties, "and a lot of them are staying with us," said Mr. Gast. Many committed budget travelers are having their reunions at the growing number of campgrounds that supply large meeting rooms, centralized kitchens and cabin units. "Our reunion business is up 30 percent over last year," he said. GLENN COLLINS

GRAPHIC: Photos: The KOA Kampground in Newburgh, N.Y., part of a nationwide chain profiting from a camping boom. A different story at Yosemite. (Photographs by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times campground and John Elk III/Lonely Planet Images Yosemite )(pg. 9); The Liberty Bell draws lots of locals; economic woes and fewer foreigners have cut Grand Canyon crowds. (Photographs by Bradley C. Bower for The New York Times Liberty Bell and Monica Almeida/The New York Times Grand Canyon )(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CRUISES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (75%); AIRLINES (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); FOREST FIRES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



198 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 91

LENGTH: 2690 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/ARTIFACTS; 
Einstein's Letters, Faberge Fauna and Prewar Chic

BYLINE:  By MITCHELL OWENS (Compiled with the assistance of ANNA BAHNEY.); Mitchell Owens is the Interior Design Director of Elle Decor.

 BODY:
 September

'PICTURES, PATENTS, MONKEYS AND MORE . . . ON COLLECTING' -- O.K., it's official. Anything can be collected, but what distinguishes one man's trash from another's treasure? It's a question to ponder, as the Institute of Contemporary Art shows off four distinctly different, highly personal caches: edgy contemporary art, patent models (a dog-powered treadmill?), sock monkeys and an assortment of Egyptian figurines and amulets collected in the early 1900's by a globe-trotting Yankee socialite. Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. Through Dec. 15. (215-898-5911) www.icaphila.org

'SCHIMMEL AND MOUNTZ: TWO PENNSYLVANIA CARVERS' -- Exotic creatures secured in pens for public exhibition may raise the ire of animal-rights activists, but who could object to a forest's worth of wildlife made of carved wood? Back in the 19th century, Wilhelm Schimmel, a German immigrant, and Aaron Mountz, a poor farmer, both wrought hundreds of fantastical eagles, bears, cranes, owls, roosters and other wildlife, some of them life-size, while others are no bigger than a handbag. Approximately two dozen pieces will be on view. Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Museum, Williamsburg, Va. Through February. (757-220-7698) www.colonialwilliamsburg.org

'FREEDOM' -- What America's celebrated freedoms really mean, through the work of artists like Arthur Dove, Peter Hurd, Larry Rivers and Jacob Lawrence and craftsmen like Paul Revere (yes, the guy who galloped round Boston). Georgia Museum of Art, Athens. Through next Sept. 22. (706-542-4662) www.uga.edu/
gamuseum

'THE QUILTS OF GEE'S BEND' -- The title of this show sounds a bit like an obscure comedy by the filmmaker Preston Sturges, but it's actually about the artistic endeavors of one of America's most isolated communities, Gee's Bend, Ala., whose black residents were trapped by a fluke of geography (and a curious lack of ferry service). Highly imaginative, marvelously modernistic quilts made by four generations of Gee's Benders will be displayed. Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. Today through Nov. 10. (713-639-7300) www.mfah.org. Traveling to the Whitney Museum of American Art, Nov. 21-March 2.

'SEPTEMBER 11: ARTISTS RESPOND' -- Responding to a craft-show organizer's call to address the events of Sept. 11 in creations no larger than six inches square, more than 60 American artists went to work. Many of the pieces, which have been donated to the American Craft Museum's permanent collection, rely on the vocabulary of invasion, incorporating everything from a copper dish scarred with bullets to the teeth of a Holocaust survivor. Each is a startlingly intense expression of another day that will live in infamy. American Craft Museum, New York. Wednesday through Jan. 5. (212-956-3535) www.americancraft
museum.org

'STATE OF EMERGENCY: DISASTER RESPONSE IN CALIFORNIA' -- When mud slides threaten, fires rage and earthquakes do the shake-and-bake, who ya gonna call? Well, in California, it's the Office of Emergency Services (O.E.S). Scores of photographs by Maggie Hallahan chronicle a decade of natural disasters in the Golden State and how they were handled by relief workers, firefighters and other professionals associated with the O.E.S. Historical disasters, like the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, are surveyed as well, and displays of emergency equipment, maps and other artifacts provide evocative counterpoints. Oakland Museum of Art, Oakland, Calif. Wednesday through Mar. 30. (510-238-2200) www.museumca.org

October

'FROM THE KILNS OF DENMARK: CONTEMPORARY DANISH CERAMICS' -- Latter-day masterpieces of the potter's art is the theme of this eye-opening show, which features more than 100 ceramic creations made especially for the exhibition by Danish artists and designers who established their names in the postatomic age. American Craft Museum, New York. Oct. 1-Jan. 5. (212-956-3535) www.americancraftmuseum.org

'GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TREASURES' -- Arguably America's greatest statesmen after Thomas Jefferson, though a bit of a pompous blowhard, Morris (1752-1816), the suave, wooden-legged New Yorker, was one of this country's most celebrated people in the 18th and 19th centuries -- raconteur, collector, senator, signer of the Constitution and the presumed author of its preamble, and United States minister to France. He was also dogged by a fair bit of notoriety, thanks to his marriage to a Virginia aristocrat who may or may not have murdered her born-out-of-wedlock baby. This 250th-birthday tribute does Morris the honor that has eluded him elsewhere. Where's Ken Burns when you need him? New-York Historical Society. Oct. 1-Jan. 20. (212-873-3400) www.nyhistory.org

'ENTERPRISING WOMEN: 250 YEARS OF AMERICAN BUSINESS' -- Glass ceiling or not, influential businesswomen have long been part of America's economic fabric. Forty-odd women of industry and pluck are profiled in this groundbreaking show that spans more than two centuries, including little-known women of importance like Mary Kaatherine Goddard, the Colonial publisher who printed an important typeset version of the Declaration of Independence; the Victorian inventor Martha Coston, who developed a military flare; and Olive Beech, the aircraft executive. National Heritage Museum, Lexington, Mass. Oct. 5-Feb. 23. (781-861-6559) www.mohn.org

'THE MIRACLES OF MARY: A 17TH-CENTURY ETHIOPIAN MANUSCRIPT' -- Medieval European monks weren't the only dab hands at illumination, the art of decorating manuscripts, particularly holy ones. In the late 1600's, African artists enlivened Ethiopian Orthodox inspirational texts with luxurious calligraphy and magnificent illustrations sparkling with gold leaf and jewel-tone paints. The manuscript on view celebrates 32 miracles associated with the Virgin Mary and recognized by the Ethiopian emperor Zara Jaeqob. Viewers who want to revel in the entire book will have to be patient: only one new dazzling page will be turned every two weeks. Art Institute of Chicago. Oct. 5-March 16. (312-443-3600) www.artic.edu

'MAESTRO DE PLATA: WILLIAM SPRATLING AND THE MEXICAN SILVER RENAISSANCE' -- William Spratling, New York-born, Mexico-based architecture professor turned writer turned arts promoter changed careers yet again around 1931 when the American ambassador to Mexico brought the silver mines of Taxco, Mexico, to Spratling's attention. The rest is history. Some of the ravishing jewelry, tableware and other south-of-the-border silver objects that Spratling made a must-have in the mid-20th century form the heart of this exhibition. They include a suitably barbaric necklace that Spratling made for the temperamental cosmetics queen Helena Rubenstein. There will also be equally sensational silver items created by Latin American craftsmen and artisans, past and present, who were emboldened by the American expatriate's success. San Antonio Museum of Art. Oct. 6-Jan. 5. (210-978-8100) www.samuseum.org

'THE GOLDEN AGE OF COSTUME AND SET DESIGN FOR THE BALLET RUSSE DE MONTE CARLO, 1938 TO 1944' -- It's tutus and toe shoes galore in this tribute to the late, great touring ballet company that was a mobile emblem of creativity from World War II until the 1960's. Included will be costume and set designs by eminences like Christian Berard and Eugene Berman and drawings by Salvador Dali, as well as deep background about the choreographers and pirouetting stars who made the Ballet Russe great, from George Balanchine to Agnes de Mille. Cincinnati Art Museum. Oct.10-Jan. 12. (513-639-2995) www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org

'KAZARI DECORATION AND DISPLAY IN JAPAN, 15TH-19TH CENTURIES' -- If you are expecting a paean to Zen purity and restraint, perhaps it's best that you stay home. Here it's all high-style sizzle and no little amount of swank in an exhibition that spans shogun military uniforms to courtesans' robes, extravagant screens to a rare set of painted cedar doors created for a 17th-century empress. Each object displayed is an example of "kazari," a school of art and thought meant to engender sensory excitement rather than mental serenity. Japan Society, New York. Oct. 17-Dec. 31. (212-832-1155) www.japansociety.org

'ARTS OF THE ISLAMIC WORLD.' -- Doris Duke was American Heiress No. 1 for most of her life, hounded by paparazzi, playboys, and a variety of hangers-on, but she found some considerable peace as an astute and energetic collector of Islamic artifacts. The Middle Eastern tiles, textiles, paintings and jewels that she used to decorate her Diamond Head estate, Shangri La -- which opens its door to the public on Nov. 6 -- increase this museum's already impressive Islamic holdings. Honolulu Academy of Arts. Oct. 27, permanent. (808-532-8700) www.honoluluacademy.org

November

'BLITHE SPIRIT: THE WINDSOR SET' -- They partied; they traveled; they dazzled. The international set that added social carbonation to the decades between Armistice Day and Pearl Harbor also dressed awfully well. Inspired by a 1940 charity fashion exhibition organized by the decorator Elsie de Wolfe and the Duchess of Windsor, Andrew Bolton, Costume Institute associate curator, examines the awe-inspiring frivolity and galvanizing chic of the fete set through designer duds once owned by best-dressed luminaries like Mona Williams (a rather dim Kentucky farm girl who married very, very well) and Daisy Fellowes (a classically beautiful, thrillingly ill-tempered Singer sewing machine heiress). Metropolitan Museum of Art. Nov. 1-Feb. 9. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org

'CHARLES DICKENS: A CHRISTMAS CAROL' -- If television adaptations and radio readings have somehow cheapened this classic tale for you, then get back to basics. The powers that be at the Morgan Library pull Charles Dickens's original manuscript out of storage and put it on display in a longstanding holiday tradition. Morgan Library, New York. Nov. 26-Jan. 12. (212-685-0610) www.morganlibrary.org

'EINSTEIN' -- The thoughts, life, political leanings and scientific insights of one of the greatest minds of the 20th century are traced through an exhibition chockablock with letters, manuscripts and other proofs of Albert Einstein's genius. There will also be interactive displays. Alas, however, scholars have yet to figure out how the man handled that head of hair. American Museum of Natural History, New York. Nov. 15-Aug. 10. (212-769-5100) www.amnh.org

'THE WORLD OF THEODORE ROOSEVELT' -- Writer, environmentalist, big-business buster, cowboy, soldier, arts patron and America's only seriously bodybuilding president (the man pumped iron long before the Y.M.C.A. ordered its first set of free weights), Teddy Roosevelt was easily the most vital guy ever to settle down in the Oval Office. Telling the energetic tale are family mementos, historical artifacts, clothes, photographs, letters, and, just maybe, the great man's dumbbells. Bully! Nassau County Museum of Art, Roslyn Harbor, N.Y. Nov. 17-Feb. 16. (516-484-9338) www.nassaumuseum.com

'LITTLE LUXURIES: BABY RATTLES AND TEETHERS FROM THE 18TH TO THE 20TH CENTURIES' -- Just when you thought accessories for the diaper set couldn't get much more extravagant, along comes a show that will leave competitive parents stupefied. Leave Junior at home, because surely his accouterments will seem woebegone beside the objects displayed here, many of which are wrought in glamorous materials like crystal and coral. Museum of Fine Arts, St. Petersburg, Fla. Nov. 23-April 27. (727-896-2667) www.fine-arts.org

December

'CULTURE AND COSTUME: DEPICTIONS OF JEWISH DRESS ACROSS FIVE CENTURIES' -- Dozens of colorful antique prints spanning hundreds of years have been assembled, each depicting the traditional costumes -- both real and imagined -- of Jewish communities around the world. Jewish Theological Seminary, New York. Dec. 12-April 15. (212-678-8000) www.jtsa.edu

'JEWELRY: THE COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG COLLECTION' -- What the founding mothers and daughters wore is the theme of this vest-pocket show devoted to personal adornment in the Colonies and supported by oil portraits from the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Museum. One highlight is an engraved gold ring lost by Mary Broadnax, a Williamsburg girl of the 1700's, and rediscovered on an archaeological dig behind a local tavern. DeWitt Wallace Decorative Arts Museum, Williamsburg, Va. Dec. 21 through December 2003.(757-220-7724) www.colonialwilliamsburg.org

January

'WILLIAM MORRIS: ELEGY' -- Inspired by the death of his mother and moved by the fatalities of Sept. 11, the eminent American glass artist William Morris has created "Cinerary Urns," a spiritually and aesthetically wondrous assortment of vessels that recall the containers traditionally used to hold cremated remains. American Craft Museum, New York. Jan. 17-April 22. (212-956-3535) www.americancraftmuseum.org

'SURF CULTURE' -- Dude, where's my board? Perhaps it's ended up here, in a salute to the surfboard and its bleached-blond lifestyle. Tracing surfing's history from early Peruvian culture to the present day, this show will also spotlight the career of Duke Paoa Kanamoku, the hunky 1930's surfer who taught the tobacco heiress Doris Duke how to hang 10. (This traveling exhibition, which opened last summer at the Laguna Museum of Art in Laguna Beach, Calif., will be adapted to emphasize Hawaii's contribution to surf culture, including an 1850's oil painting of Hawaiian surfers in Hilo Bay.) The Contemporary Museum, Honolulu. Jan. 31-Mar. 30. (808-526-1322) www.tcmhi.org

February

'FRAKTUR TREASURES FROM THE SCHWENKFELDER LIBRARY AND HERITAGE CENTER' -- Just when you thought you knew everything there was to know about Pennsylvania German religious sects in America, along come the hitherto below-the-radar Schwenkfelders and their gaily illustrated documents. Brilliantly decorated with flowers and scrolls, elaborate lettering and lacy penmanship, the group's birth certificates and other official papers make today's just-the-facts-ma'am forms and applications seem positively soulless by comparison. American Folk Art Museum. Feb. 1-May 11. (212-265-1040) www.folkartmuseum.org

'ON THE WALL' -- Wallpaper as an art form has fallen into a bit of a rut since its 19th-century heyday, when fine artists applied their talents to rolls of paper intended for home decoration. Or then again, has its demise, like reports of the death of Mark Twain, been exaggerated? Seems so, if the contemporary wallpapers exhibited here bear honest witness, executed by artists as wide-ranging as Jenny Holzer, Andy Warhol and Carrie Mae Weems. Modern wallpapers by Virgil Marti and Francesco Simeti will also be included. Rhode Island School of Design Museum, Providence. Feb. 7-April 20. (401-454-6500) www.risd.edu

'THE FABERGE MENAGERIE' -- The Russian imperial jeweler Carl Faberge made everything a fashionable St. Petersburg noble could desire, from diamond-studded tiaras to pink-enamel photograph frames. But his most cunning creations are the tiny animals his craftsmen carved from semiprecious stones and set with all manner of fabulous gems in the years before the czar-toppling revolution. More than 100 of these wee wonders are herded together for the most comprehensive look to date at this particular corner of the master's art. Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore. Feb. 13-July 27.(410-547-9000) www.thewalters.org

March

'VIETNAM: JOURNEYS OF BODY, MIND AND SPIRIT' -- More than 300 items have been gathered to depict contemporary life in this ancient country, which is in the midst of a 21st-century growth spurt. Among the items are a festival canopy, rabbit lanterns, Dao-initiation masks and embroidered wedding fabrics. American Museum of Natural History, New York. March 15 through January 2004. 212-769-5100) www.amnh.org

May

'MEXICAN TREES OF LIFE' -- Towering, ornamental, mystical and utterly fantastic, handmade ceramic trees of life have become an indelible Mexican pop-culture phenomenon over the last 50 years, captivating folk artists as well as top-flight potters. This bilingual exhibition presents 85 of these arborial extravagances, all produced by family-run potteries. Fowler Museum of Cultural History at U.C.L.A. May 17-Dec. 14. (310-206-6465) www.arts.ucla.edu

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Surf-Riders, Honolulu" (about 1919-20), a woodblock print by Charles W. Bartlett, is in the exhibition "Surf Culture: The Art History of Surfing," opening Jan. 31 at the Contemporary Museum in Honolulu. (The Contemporary Museum, Honolulu, Hawaii); Votive paper vehicles, for use by the dead, in "Vietnam: Journeys of Body, Mind and Spirit" at the Museum of Natural History in March. (Craig Chesek/American Museum of Natural History) Drawing (Patrick McDonnell)(pg. 91,92)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SURFING (79%); PATENTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); QUILTS & QUILTING (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); BIRDS (73%); WATER SPORTS (69%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (68%); HOLOCAUST (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); FERRIES (50%) ART 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%)

PERSON: OWENS, MITCHELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



199 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 84

LENGTH: 7842 words

HEADLINE: The Mongols, the Medici and Iranian Modernism 

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER (Compiled with the assistance of ANNA BAHNEY) 

 BODY:
 September

'PIERRE BONNARD: EARLY AND LATE' -- With his fruity palette and eye for domestic interiors, the work of this Proustian painter is visual comfort food of a high order. Phillips Collection, Washington. Through Jan. 19. (202-387-2151) www.phillipscollection.org. Traveling to the Denver Art Museum, March 1-May 25.

'JOHN O'REILLY: ASSEMBLIES OF MAGIC' -- The first career retrospective for an artist who for 40 years has been making exquisite photographic collages that mix art history, religion, pornography and self-portraiture. Addison Gallery of American Art, Andover, Mass. Through Dec. 22. (978-749-4015) www.andover.edu/addison

'DAMIAN ORTEGA: COSMIC THING' -- Mexico City is turning out a crop of brilliant young artists. Damian Ortega is one of them, and this is his first solo museum show in the United States. It will include a Volkswagen Beetle, a car ubiquitous in Mexico but here reduced to useless pieces, which could be Mexico's fate in the big global picture. Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. Through Dec. 15. (215-898-5911) www.icaphila.org

'FANTASTIC! THE ART OF COMICS AND ILLUSION' -- Contemporary comics culture is the source of some of the wildest art around, as these concurrent shows indicate. "Raw, Boiled and Cooked" looks at the history of the influential publication Raw, which Art Spiegelman helped found; "Widescreen" blows anarchic, hallucinatory strips up to mural scale; "Bay Area Blast" focuses on writers and artists around San Francisco. Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, San Francisco. Through Oct. 13 (415-978-2700) www.yerbabuenaarts.org

'WILLIAM POPE.L: ERACISM' -- A maverick figure in American art for more than two decades, William Pope.L is best known for his carnivalesque, endurance-test public performances addressing race, poverty and power. This career survey includes a riveting selection of documentary film clips and gallery installations made from peanut butter, Pop Tarts and Wild Irish Rose bottles. Institute of Contemporary Art, Portland, Me. Through Oct. 17. (207-879-5742) www.meca.edu Traveling to Diverseworks, Houston, Jan. 10-Feb. 22; Institute of Contemporary Art, Portland, Ore., May 7-July 28; Artists Space, New York, Jan. 17-Feb. 29, 2004; and Mason Gross Art Galleries, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J., Jan. 5-Feb. 6, 2004.

'DREAMING IN PICTURES: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF LEWIS CARROLL' -- Lewis Carroll, a k a the Rev. Charles Dodgson, was a shy mathematician who stammered, loved little girls and wrote two of the strangest, funniest books in the English language. He was also a photographer, and 75 of his extraordinary pictures, mostly of children, are in this show. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Through Nov. 10, (415-357-4000) www.sfmoma.org. Traveling to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Feb. 22-May 19.

'DO-HO SUH' -- Individuality and displacement are among the themes of this young Korean-born artist who makes wallpaper from thousands of minute portrait photographs and full-scale silk houses that float in midair. Seattle Asian Art Museum and Seattle Art Museum. Through Dec. 10. (206-654-3100) www.seattleartmuseum.org

'VINCENT FECTEAU' -- Included in the recent Whitney Biennial, the work of this young artist is a cool, tabletop-size cross between abstract sculpture and architecture, painstakingly wrought from everyday material. Berkeley Art Museum. Through Oct. 6. (510-642-0808) www.bampfa.berkeley.edu. Traveling to the Pasadena Museum of California Art, Dec. 4-Mar. 2.

'MONDRIAN: THE PATH TO ABSTRACTION, 1892-1914' -- The paintings of landscapes, figures and flowers in this show represent a Mondrian largely missing from the stately 1995 retrospective: the Romantic, the Theosophist, the artist who looked back at his youthful paintings at the end of his life and said, "For me, there is no difference between these early ones and the last ones; they are all part of the same thing." Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth. Through Dec. 8. (817-332-8451) www.kimbellart.org

'NEW WORK: ODILI DONALD ODITA' -- This Nigerian-born artist presents striking geometric abstract paintings with patterns and colors that refer to modernist painting, African textiles and the Internet. Miami Art Museum. Through Oct. 27. (305-375-3000) www.miamiartmuseum.org

'VOICE: A DECADE OF WORK BY LESLEY DILL' -- Lesley Dill's spiritually infused work includes paper dresses made from the words of Emily Dickinson's poems and choruses scored for a gospel choir. It's like a Conceptualist version of folk art and in a class by itself. C.U. Art Galleries at the University of Colorado, Boulder, through Nov. 2. (303-492-8300) www.colorado.edu/cuartgalleries. Traveling to the Contemporary Museum, Honolulu, Nov. 22-Jan. 12, and to the Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art, Feb. 8-May 11.

'EXPOSED: THE VICTORIAN NUDE' -- Our great-great-grandparents weren't so uptight after all. At least that's the message of this show of high art and tarted-up erotica -- it's hard to tell the difference -- by the likes of Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Edward Burne-Jones and a passel of sculptors, photographers and illustrators. Brooklyn Museum of Art. Through Jan. 5 (718-638-5000) www.brooklynmuseum.org

'JO BAER: RECONCILIATION WITHHELD' -- This American abstract painter lived in Europe for much of her professional life. But the pictures in this show were done in New York between 1962 and 1975 and confirm what many people have always known: she's a major figure -- adventurous, progressive and ripe for rediscovery. Dia Center for the Arts, New York. Thur. through June 21. (212-989-5566) www.diacenter.org

'JOSE ANTONIO HERNANDEZ-DIEZ' -- This Venezuelan installation artist uses humor, commercial products and cultural cliches in a sardonic look at global economics. Palm Beach Institute of Contemporary Art, Lake Worth, Fla. Fri. through Nov. 17. (561-582-0006) www.palmbeachica.org. Traveling to Site Santa Fe, N.M., Jan. 24-April 19; and the New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York, July 3-Sept. 21.

'WINOGRAND: 1964' -- In 1964 the photographer Garry Winogrand drove across the United States to catch the face of a nation coming to grips with the assassination of a president, explosive racial unrest and the beginnings of the Vietnam War. The 150 pictures in this show, organized by the Center for Creative Photography in Arizona, are a time capsule of an era. International Center of Photography, New York. Friday through Dec. 1. (212-857-0000) www.icp.org

'GLORIA' -- A flashback to the feminist art of the 1970's with works by Hannah Wilke, Adrian Piper, Joan Jonas, Nancy Grossman, Carolee Schneemann, Yvonne Rainer and others. White Columns, New York. Friday through Oct. 20. (212-924-4212) www.whitecolumns.org. Followed by "Regarding Gloria," by younger artists inspired by these path-breaking figures. Oct. 25-Dec. 1.

'LEONARDO DA VINCI AND THE SPLENDOR OF POLAND: A HISTORY OF COLLECTING AND PATRONAGE' -- Drawn from Polish public and private collections, the exhibition contains artists unfamiliar to many of us, but also Hans Memling, Bernardo Bellotto, and -- the highlight -- Leonardo and his deeply bizarre "Lady With an Ermine (Portrait of Cecilia Gallerani)." Milwaukee Art Museum. Fri. through Nov. 24. (414-224-3200) www.milwaukee.org. Traveling to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Dec. 8-Feb. 16; and the Legion of Honor, San Francisco, March 8-May 15.

'THE NATIVE BORN: CONTEMPORARY ABORIGINAL ART FROM RAMINGINING, AUSTRALIA' -- The Asia Society had a hit in 1988 with "Dreamings: The Art of Aboriginal Australia" and may well repeat its success with this new arrival, organized by the Museum of Contemporary Art, Sydney. The 200 bark paintings, weavings and wooden sculptures were created by artists in a small settlement in northern Australia. Asia Society, New York. Sept. 17-Jan. 5. (212-288-6400) www.asiasociety.org

'BETWEEN WORD AND IMAGE: MODERN IRANIAN VISUAL CULTURE' -- In the 1960's and 70's, when Islam was being politicized and the unrest that would lead to the 1979 Revolution was brewing, Western modernism mingled with traditional art in Iran and the artists took over the role of the poets as social commentators. This show, documenting these changes, should be fascinating. Grey Art Gallery, New York University. Sept. 18-Dec. 7. (212-998-6780) www.nyu.edu/greyart

'CHEN ZHEN: INNER BODY LANDSCAPES' -- The Chinese-born Chen Zhen (1955-2000) created sculptural installations that mixed Chinese and Western cultures in witty, often politically pointed combinations. Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston. Sept. 18-Dec. 31. (617-266-5152) www.icaboston.org. A tribute to the artist will open at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens, in February.

'FACING THE MASK' -- Seventy masks from all over Africa in a museum's new temporary headquarters in Queens. Museum for African Art. Sept. 20-March 2. (212-966-1313) www.africanart.org

'BLANC-DE-CHINE: DIVINE IMAGES IN PORCELAIN' -- The white-glaze export porcelain known as Dehua ware, produced in southern China and all the rage during the Ming and early Qing dynasties, is in the spotlight here. China Institute Gallery, New York. Sept. 19-Dec. 7. (212-744-8181) www.chinainstitute.org

'JEAN FAUTRIER' -- The parallel, sometimes overlapping, paths of American and European abstraction in the 1950's and 60's is gradually mapped out in exhibitions. This one, devoted to a leading French painter, should add some valuable information. Haggerty Museum of Art, Milwaukee. Sept. 19-Dec. 29. (414-288-1669) www.marquette.edu/haggerty. Traveling to the Wallach Art Gallery, Columbia University, Jan. 28-Mar. 29; and the Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University, April 26-July 20.

'A LEGACY IN LANDSCAPES' -- Artists from Fragonard to Alex Katz are represented in a show of landscape prints from the New York Public Library's endlessly diverse holdings. New York Public Library. Sept. 20-Jan. 4 (212-869-8089) www.nypl.org

'KAY ROSEN: COLLAGES, 1999-2002' -- An artist who is known for her paintings of words as images, created collages and a wall drawing for this solo show. The Drawing Center, New York. Sept. 21-Oct. 26. (212-219-2166) www.drawingcenter.org

'THE SHAPE OF COLOR: JOAN MIRO'S PAINTED SCULPTURE' -- Whimsical 3-D work along with preparatory drawings from the prolific Surrealist. Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington. Sept. 22-Jan. 6. (202-639-1700) www.corcoran.org. Traveling to the Salvador Dali Museum, St. Petersburg, Fla., Jan. 25-April 27.

'JULIE MOOS' -- This artist's photographic double portraits reveal subliminal affinities and social tensions between the sitters. For this solo show she has produced large-format new works. Renaissance Society, University of Chicago. Sept. 22-Nov. 3. (773-702-8670) www.renaissancesociety.org

'RICHARD AVEDON: PORTRAITS' -- This celebrity photographer is seen to advantage in his stark, unflattering, often penetrating portraits. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Sept. 26-Jan. 5. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org

'THE THAW COLLECTION: MASTER DRAWINGS AND OIL SKETCHES, ACQUISITIONS SINCE 1994' -- If this selection of works acquired by Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw is as gorgeous as the previous one at the Morgan Library, it will really be something to see. Morgan Library, New York. Sept. 27-Jan. 19. (212-685-0008) www.morganlibrary.org

'STRANGE MESSENGER: THE ART OF PATTI SMITH.' -- Patti Smith brought poetry and rock together with a slashing glamor. This show gives an idea of what she's been doing with photography, film and drawing. Andy Warhol Museum, Pittsburgh. Sept. 29-Jan. 5. (412-237-8300) www.warhol.org. Traveling to the Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston, March 28-May 18, and the Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. Sept. 3-Dec. 14.

October

'COLOR AND ECSTASY: THE ART OF HYMAN BLOOM' -- This intense, idiosyncratic American artist, now in his late 70's, was highly regarded by Abstraction Expressionists in the 1940's, though he has remained a representational painter. Among his themes are Judaism, the landscape and the human body in a state of irridescent decay. National Academy of Design, New York. Oct. 2-Dec. 29. (212-369-4880) www.nationalacademy.org

'TOMOKO TAKAHASHI' -- Tokyo-born, now living in London and shortlisted for the 2000 Turner Prize, Ms. Takahashi assembles elaborately micromanaged installations from rubbish and found objects. Her material for this show will be scavenged from Hollywood studio prop archives. Hammer Museum, University of California, Los Angeles. Oct. 6-Jan. 5. (310-443-7000) www.hammer.ucla.edu

'NARI WARD' AND 'JOSEPH KOSUTH' -- For the Gardner's artist-in-residence program, the Jamaican-born Nari Ward collaborates with Boston schoolchildren on a project that will extend out of the museum and into the street. The Conceptualist Joseph Kosuth will examine aspects of the museum's fabled, staggeringly eclectic holdings. Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Boston. Nari Ward, Oct. 6-Jan. 5; Joseph Kosuth, Jan. 24-April 6. www.gardnermuseum.org

'FROM COURT TO CARAVAN: CHINESE TOMB SCULPTURES FROM THE COLLECTION OF ANTHONY M. SOLOMON' AND 'CHINA REFIGURED: THE ART OF AH XIAN' -- These shows open simultaneously at Asia Society. The first is a truly fabulous display of ceramic guardian figures, entertainers and animals made for elite tombs from the Han to Tang dynasties. The second is a solo show of a contemporary Chinese artist who makes porcelain, lacquer and cloisonne portrait busts. Both shows Oct. 9-Feb. 9. Asia Society, New York. (212-288-6400) www.asiasociety.org

'GARY SIMMONS' -- Known in the 1990's for his fine, ghostly, half-erased drawings on racism and identity, Mr. Simmons presents new works, including photographs, video and sculptures in an exhibition organized by Thelma Golden. Studio Museum in Harlem. Oct. 9-Jan. 5. (212-864-4500) www.studiomuseum.org

'LORNA SIMPSON: PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS' -- Two concurrent shows at the Whitney include photographs and a film, made for the current Documenta, which tracks a month in the life of an unknown woman. Whitney Museum. Oct. 11-Jan 26. (800-944-8639) www.whitney.org. The Studio Museum in Harlem will also present a project by the artist, Oct. 9-Jan. 5.

'JUDY CHICAGO' -- A retrospective of the pioneer feminist artist will encompass her career from 1964 to the present with a focus on her 1971 work at Womanhouse and her iconic installation "The Dinner Party." National Museum of Women in the Arts, Washington. Oct. 11-Jan. 5. (202-393-3235) www.nmwa.org. "The Dinner Party" will be exhibited at the Brooklyn Museum, Sept. 20-Feb. 9 and permanently installed there in 2004. (A related article is on Page 78.)

'ADOLPH GOTTLIEB: A SURVEY EXHIBITION' -- From the holdings of the Gottlieb Foundation comes a retrospective that includes seldom-seen work from the 1920's and 30's. Jewish Museum, New York. Oct. 11-Mar. 2. (212-423-3200) www.jewishmuseum.org

'ANNE VALLAYER-COSTER: PAINTER TO THE COURT OF MARIE-ANTOINETTE' -- A favored artist in pre-Revolutionary France, and one of only four women admitted to the French Academy, Vallayer-Coster specialized in paintings of lush floral still lifes. Dallas Museum of Art. Oct. 13-Jan. 5. (214-922-1200) www.dallas
museumofart.org. Traveling to the Frick Collection, New York, Jan. 21-Mar. 23.

'ROSEMARIE TROCKEL: SPLEEN' -- This always stimulating German artist will install a new suite of video projections that advance the feminist spirit that animates her art. Dia Center for the Arts, New York. Oct. 16-June 15. (212-989-5566) www.diacenter.org

'GILLIAN WEARING: MASS OBSERVATION' -- A decade's worth of films and video installations by the 1997 Turner Prize winner, who documents herself and others in moments of staged or accidental abandon. Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. Oct. 19-Jan. 19. (312-280-2660) www.mcachicago.org

'HANNELORE BARON: WORKS FROM 1969-87' -- German-born and self-taught, Ms. Baron (1926-87) was self-taught and lived and worked in the Bronx. Her small, abstract fabric-and-paper collages, ornamented with written symbols and chips of wood are like dark, time-stained messages from deep within the psyche. Macalester College Art Gallery, St. Paul, Minn. Oct. 19-Dec. 15. (651-696-6000) www.macalester.edu. Traveling to the Neuberger Museum of Art, State University of New York, Purchase, Jan. 12-March 23; Bass Museum of Art, Miami, April 5-June 1; Mennello Museum of American Folk Art, Orlando, Fla., July 5-Sept. 7.

'DEGAS AND THE DANCE' -- The ultra-urbane Degas was an habitue of the theater; dancers, offstage and on, were a recurrent theme. He painted them as a cross between night-blooming flowers and tautly designed machines with lives at once drab and magical. The show will include nearly 150 paintings, drawings and sculptures. Detroit Institute of Arts. Oct. 20-Jan. 12. (313-833-7900) www.dia.org. Traveling to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Feb. 12-May 11.

'MODIGLIANI AND THE ARTISTS OF MONTPARNASSE' -- Amedeo Modigliani lived fast, died young and left a seductive body of paintings, including female nudes of singular erotic warmth. This show places him in the context of the Parisian vie de Boheme and in the company of fellow cafe crawlers like Picasso, Rivera and Brancusi. Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo. Oct. 22-Jan. 12. (716) 882-8700 www.albrightknox.org. Traveling to the Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth, Feb. 9-May 25 and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, June 29-Sept. 28.

'HUNG LIU' -- This American artist's figurative paintings are based on archival photographs of China, her birthplace, but with the original images given a personal content. Laguna Art Museum, Laguna Beach, Calif. Oct. 27-Feb. 23. (949-494-8971) www.lagunaartmuseum.org. Traveling to the Crocker Art Museum, Sacramento, Calif., Mar. 7-May 4.

'FRED WILSON: OBJECTS AND INSTALLATIONS, 1985-2000' -- The role played by cultural institutions in perpetuating racist concepts is a major theme of an artist-activist having his first career retrospective. Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery, Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Oct. 26-Dec. 31. (518-580-8080) www.skidmore.edu/tang. Traveling to the Blaffer Gallery, the Art Museum of the University of Houston, May 3-Aug. 31.

'JAVIER TELLEZ' -- The imaginative installations created inside abandoned psychiatric hospitals by this young conceptualist have been as much about societal constraints as about mental illness. He has large thoughts and is worth keeping an eye on. Art in General, New York. Oct. 29-Dec. 21. (212-219-0473) www.artingeneral.org

'CARROLL DUNHAM' -- This New York painter's cartoon-apocalypse images have grown ever richer in form and more bitter in feeling over the last decade. He's at his peak, and this midcareer survey should pack a wallop. New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York. Oct. 31-Feb. 2. (212-219-1222) www.newmuseum.org

November

'ADVENTURES OF HAMZA' -- The Persian adventure tale known as the Hamzanama is an epic romance of heroes, monsters and bloody derring-do. It enthralled the Mughal emperor Akbar, who commissoned Hindu and Persian artists to illustrate it with some 1,400 paintings. Only a fraction of those survive. Nearly 60 will be in an eye-popping, action-packed show at the Brooklyn Museum. Nov. 1-Jan. 26. (718-638-5000) www.brooklynmuseum.org

'THE LEGACY OF GENGHIS KHAN: COURTLY ART AND CULTURE IN WESTERN ASIA, 1256-1353' -- Popular history -- i.e., Hollywood -- has cast Genghis Khan and his Mongol hordes as the bad guy of the steppes, but art offers a different perspective. His court, and those of the Ilkhanid rulers who were his heirs, both adapted and invigorated the cultures they encountered to produce an art of dynamic refinement, as the manuscripts, ceramics and textiles included in this show should demonstrate. Metropolitan Museum. Nov. 5-Feb. 16 (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org. Traveling to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, April 13-July 27.

'THE NEW OLD WORLD' -- Some studies say that the Taino, the indigenous people of the Caribbean at the time of Columbus's arrival, were entirely exterminated by European invaders. The photographer Marisol Villanueva argues against this "myth of extinction" in photographs documenting Taino traditions still active in Puerto Rico and Cuba. National Museum of the American Indian, New York. Nov. 7-March 30. (212-514-3700) www.nmai.si.edu

'PAINTING AS PARADOX' -- Rumors of the death of painting have always been greatly exaggerated. It's alive, and always has been. The news lies in what artists are doing with it. This salon-style show, organized by Lauri Firstenberg, assembles 50 painters to give us a notion of what's up. Artists Space, New York. Nov. 7-Dec. 21. (212-226-3970) www.artistsspace.org

'THE MEDICI, MICHELANGELO AND ART OF LATE RENAISSANCE FLORENCE' -- Florence's leading merchant dynasty had the bucks, the palazzo space and the political clout to collect the best Italian artists of the day. Prime works by some of them -- Michelangelo, Bronzino, the sociopathic Pontormo -- appear in an exhibition of 180 paintings, prints and porcelains. Art Institute of Chicago. Nov. 9-Feb. 2, (312-443-0193) www.artic.edu. Traveling to the Detroit Institute of the Arts, March 16-June 18.

'THE SENSUOUS AND THE SACRED: CHOLA BRONZES FROM SOUTH INDIA' -- From the 9th through the 13th centuries, the Chola dynasty in southern India perfected the sublime style of cast-bronze religious sculpture. The figure of the dancing god Shiva is well known, but those of lithe goddesses, skeletal ascetics and pudgy child-saints are no less enchanting. Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Washington. Nov. 10-March 9. (202-357-2700) www.asia.si.edu. Traveling to the Dallas Museum of Art, April 6-June 15, and the Cleveland Museum of Art, July 6-Sept. 14.

'NALINI MALANI: HAMLETMACHINE' -- A leading Bombay-based artist uses traditional images and new technology in a text-and-video installation addressing the rise of Hindu fundamentalism. New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York. Nov. 13-Jan. 12. (212-219-1222) www.newmuseum.org

'CECILY BROWN' -- Willem de Kooning treated paint as a carnal substance. Ms. Brown keeps the faith with pigment-rich pictures that hide sexy bodies under abstract patterns. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington. Nov. 14-March 2 (202-357-2700) www.hirshhorn.si.edu

'SIGMAR POLKE: NEW WORK' -- Mural-size paintings and small-scale drawings by the most adventurous and unpindownable German artist of them all. Dallas Museum of Art. Nov. 16-March 1. (214-922-1200) www.dallasmuseumofart.org

'GENESIS: IDEAS OF ORIGIN IN AFRICAN SCULPTURE' -- Organized by Alisa LaGamma, this show will examine 17 distinctive traditions of African art that take their inspiration from concepts of how the world, human history and individual consciousness began. The centerpiece will be an array of 40 Ciwara antelope headdresses, delicate and powerful, from the Bamana people of Mali. The Met's last African show was a stunner; this one is likely to be, too. Metropolitan Museum. Nov. 19-April 13. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org

'KEITH EDMIER AND FARRAH FAWCETT' -- Charlie's most sculpturally coiffed Angel actually studied sculpture in college; so did the young California artist Keith Edmier, who, as a child, was wowed by Ms. Fawcett on television. When he approached her with the idea of doing her portrait, she proposed that they make sculptures of each other. The result: a life-size double self-portrait. Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Nov. 21-Feb. 17 (323-857-6522) www.lacma.org

'GILLIAN JAGGER: SCULPTURE' -- Born in England but long a resident of the United States, Gillian Jagger does sculptures that cast a cold eye on elemental nature and make an expressive, personal thing of its raw forms. After a succession of stirring New York gallery shows, she's having a museum retrospective in Madison, Wis. Elvehjem Museum of Art. Nov. 23-Jan. 19. (608-263-2246) www.lvm.wisc.edu

'AUGUST SANDER: PEOPLE OF THE 20TH CENTURY' -- More than 200 photographs from the Sander archive in Cologne, Germany, make a lineup of the early-20th-century social "types" that the artist defined and documented. One Sander picture at a time is impressive; this many should be a revelation. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Nov. 29-Feb 23. (415-357-4000) www.sfmoma.org

December

'THE SMITHS: TONY, KIKI AND SETON' -- Work by the sculpture and painter Tony Smith (1912-80) and his artist-daughters, Kiki and Seton, are given an all-in-the-family showcase. Palm Beach Institute of Contemporary Art, Lake Worth, Fla. Dec. 1-March 23. (561-582-0006) www.palmbeachica.org

'R.S.V.P.: SARAH SZE' -- One of the most inventive of contemporary sculptors, Ms. Sze fills rooms, hallways, stairwells and odd corners with unbelievably intricate arrays of very small, everyday things held together with string, wire and thread. Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Dec. 4-Spring 2003. (617-267-9300) www.mfa.org

'JULIAN LAVERDIERE' -- Best known as a creator of the "Tribute in Light" memorial at ground zero last spring, this New York artist has also produced gloomy neo-Gothic sculptures with pulsating eletronic sound tracks. New pieces are promised for this show. Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami, Fla. Dec. 4-Feb. 2. (305-893-6211) www.mocanomi.org

'GREGORY CREWDSON, TWILIGHT' -- Mr. Crewdson's photographs of spooky David Lynchian suburban tableaus are getting hokier each time out. But he has had a considerable influence on some younger artists, and that's interesting in itself. Aspen Art Museum, Colorado. Dec. 6-Feb. 2. (970-925-8050) www.aspenartmuseum.org. Traveling to Mass MOCA, North Adams, Mass., March 1-Feb. 2004.

'THE EDGE OF ENCHANTMENT' -- The "encantos," or enchantments, of the native communities of Oaxaca, Mexico, are physical spaces that mark thresholds to an unknown world. This multimedia exhibition will document some of them, as well as the histories, traditions and contemporary lives of the people of the Huatulco-Huamelula region. National Museum of the American Indian, George Gustav Heye Center, New York. Dec. 12-Summer 2003. (212-514-3700) www.americanindian.si.edu

'LOUISE BOURGEOIS: EARLY WORK' -- Another piece in the puzzle of this artist's long but late-blooming career comes to light in a survey of paintings, sculptures and drawings from the 1940's and 50's, before she was "discovered" by the art world. Aspen Art Museum, Colorado. Dec. 13-Feb. 2. (970-925-8050) www.aspenartmuseum.org

'FIRST PHOTOGRAPHS: WILLIAM HENRY FOX TALBOT' -- Fox Talbot's early pictures (he was a 19th-century photography pioneer) of family, friends and his country home have the freshness of a sunny morning and the unreality of dreams. Organized by the San Diego Museum of Photographic Arts and the National Trust Fox Talbot Museum in Wiltshire, England, the show also includes work by several of his contemporaries. International Center of Photography, New York. Dec. 13-Feb. 16. (212-857-0000) www.icp.org. Traveling to San Diego, March-June 15.

'THE CORCORAN BIENNIAL' -- A bright young curator, Jonathan P. Binstock, is in charge of a temperature-taking show that has a reputation for being a bit snoozy. Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington. Dec. 14-March 2. (202-639-1700) www.corcoran.org

'FRENCH ART FROM THE PUSHKIN' -- This show of 72 paintings from the State Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow is one of those Poussin-to-Picasso affairs. You can't go really wrong with such an assortment, but you can't go brilliantly right either. Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. Dec. 15-March 9. (713-639-7300) www.mfah.org. Traveling to the Los Angeles County Museum, July 27-Oct. 12.

January

'WANGECHI MUTU' -- A young artist recently seen at the Studio Museum in Harlem presents recent work, including figurative collages that refer to African her itage and postcolonialism. Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning, Queens. Jan. 11-March 15. (718-658-7400) www.jcal.org

'MARDSEN HARTLEY: AMERICAN MODERNIST' -- The first Hartley retrospective in 20 years considers all phases of his knotty, often audacious painting and may offer new perspectives on his aesethetic thinking and enigmatic personality. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, Hartford. Jan. 17-April 20. (860-278-2670) www.wadsworthatheneum.org

'ROYAL ART LODGE' -- The first museum show for the collaborative team of six young Canadian artists, among them Marcel Dzama, who call themselves Royal Art Lodge, produce cool, zany drawings, as well as sculptures and videos. The Drawing Center, New York. Jan. 18-March 8. (212-219-2166) www.drawingcenter.org

'ELLSWORTH KELLY: RED GREEN BLUE' -- Like a classical poet, Mr. Kelly thrives on the formal strictures he sets for himself. In this selection of post-Paris paintings and studies from the late 1950's to the early 1960's he does miraculous things with shape, line and a palette of three colors. Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego. (858-454-3541) www.mcasd.org. Traveling to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (April-July), and the Whitney Museum (Aug.-Nov.).

'EDOUARD VUILLARD' -- Vuillard's dense, closed-up paintings of his family's Paris apartment are all puce and violet, light and shadow, infantile anxiety and adult objectivity. They make you want to dash outside for a breath of air, but they also keep pulling you back. This international retrospective, which also includes the artist's landscapes, portraits and theater designs, opens in Washington and moves on to Montreal, Paris and London. National Gallery of Art, Washington. Jan. 19-April 20. (202-737-4215) www.nga.gov

'LEONARDO DA VINCI, MASTER DRAFTSMAN' -- Sure to be a big draw, this show, organized by the Metropolitan Museum and the Louvre, assembles some 120 drawings made by this prodigious artist, demonstrating his interests in art, science and architecture. Loans from the fabled Windsor Castle and Vatican holdings will be there, including an unfinished painting with traces of the artist's fingerprints. Metropolitan Museum. Jan. 22-March 30 (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org.

'DEBATING AMERICAN MODERNISM: STIEGLITZ, DUCHAMP AND THE NEW YORK AVANT-GARDE' -- In early-20th-century New York, Alfred Stieglitz and his circle -- which included Arthur Dove and Georgia O'Keeffe -- looked to nature as the source of a new American modernism. Marcel Duchamp and his followers looked to machines, theories and Dada culture. The two titans duke it out in this show organized by Debra Bricker Balken. Georgia O'Keeffe Museum, Santa Fe, N.M. Jan. 24-April 20. (505-946-1000) www.okeeffemuseum.org. Traveling to the Des Moines Art Center, Iowa, May 9-Aug. 1.

'BILL VIOLA: THE PASSIONS' -- In images inspired by medieval and Renaissance devotional painting, the video artist explored how slowly changing facial expression and body language express emotional states. J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles. Jan. 28-April 27. (310-440-7360) www.getty.edu

'THE CHALLENGE OF THE MODERN: AFRICAN-AMERICAN ARTISTS, 1925-1945' -- Lowery Stokes Sims organizes a show documenting the approaches used by early-20th-century African-American artists to establish themselves in the world of modern art without relinquishing or compromising the subjects that were important to them. Studio Museum in Harlem, New York. Jan. 29-March 30. (212-864-4500) www.studiomuseum.org

'JASPER JOHNS: DRAWINGS' -- Anything from the parsimonious output of this cryptic artist is an event, and several of the 35 works on paper seen here are from his personal collection. Menil Collection, Houston. Jan. 31-May 4. (713-525-9400) www.menil.org

February

'FRANK MOORE: GREEN THUMB IN A DARK EDEN' -- This artist, who died of complications from AIDS earlier this year, spent much of his spare time gardening at his home in rural upstate New York. His allegorical narratives combine memories of childhood with adult concerns about a fragile natural environment under siege. Albright Knox Gallery, Buffalo, N.Y. Feb. 1-April 20. (716-882-8700) www.albrightknox.org

'MONTIEN BOONMA' -- In the 1990's at the Asia Society, this Thai artist, who died two years, presented a walk-in abstract sculpture made of medicinal herbs and spices; other pieces have suggested temples and altars. His subject was the blending of art and Buddhist philosophy. This eagerly awaited look at his career will include soil drawings, candle and perfume paintings, metal sculptures of lungs and cosmological charts. Asia Society. Feb. 5-May 11. (212-288-6400) www.asiasociety.org

'NAYLAND BLAKE: SOME KIND OF LOVE, PERFORMANCE VIDEO 1989-2002' -- Large-scale environments, objects and videos make up a survey of work by an artist who has addressed popular culture, AIDS, gay identity and and racism with biting wit. Organized by the Tang Teaching Museum and Gallery at Skidmore College, where it will appear in October 2003. Center for Art and Visual Culture, University of Maryland, Baltimore. Feb. 7-March 22. (410-455-3188) www.umbc.edu/arts

'WHISTLER AND HIS CIRCLE IN VENICE' -- Next year is the centennial of Whistler's death. Several museums have scheduled shows of his work. The Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington is one of them. Feb. 8-May 5 (202-639-1800) www.corcoran.org

'A SAINT IN THE CITY: SUFI ARTS OF URBAN SENEGAL' -- The art and culture of Islamic West Africa are viewed through the dynamic popular religious movement in Senegal known as the Mouride Way, inspired by the teaching of the Sufi saint Sheikh Amadu Bamba. Mouride art is visually thrilling, the ideas embodied complex. The show promises to offer a new perspective both on Islam and on contemporary Africa itself. Fowler Museum of Cultural History, University of California, Los Angeles. Feb. 9-Aug. 24. (310-825-4361) www.fmch.ucla.edu

'LUCIAN FREUD' -- Imported from the Tate Britain, this retrospective of the much-praised British artist encompasses paintings, drawings and prints from a 60 year career, among them psychodramatically fleshy portraits of family, lovers and friends. Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. Feb. 9-May 25. (213-621-2766) www.moca.org

'THOMAS GAINSBOROUGH, 1727-1788' -- The Tate Britain is the source of this exhibition of an 18th-century British slacker-artist who refused to read, compulsively missed deadlines and had one of the smoothest painting hands of his time. National Gallery of Art, Washington. Feb. 9-May 11. (202-737-4215) www.nga.gov. Traveling to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, June 15-Sept. 14.

'MATISSE PICASSO' -- Call it the Two Tenors, this made-to-order blockbuster arrives in New York from London and Paris. The story it tells isn't earth-shattering -- two art titans knew each other, had mixed feelings about each other and went about their business -- but the art sure hits those high notes. Museum of Modern Art, Queens. Feb. 13-May 19. (212-708-9400) www.moma.org

'MATTHEW BARNEY: THE CREMASTER CYCLE' -- Postponed from last season, this exhibition features the ambitious artist-impresario's five-part film project accompanied by related sculptures, photographs and drawings. His conceptual scope is vast (mythology, biology, pathology, spirituality); his formal resources are prodigious. The films will be screened daily. Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York. Feb. 21-May 11. (212-423-3500) www.guggenheim.org

'BADA SHANREN' -- A descendent of Ming royalty, Bada Shanren (1626-1705) became a Buddhist monk after the Manchu invasion and started painting at 60. Considered insane, he was a fantastically imaginative artist, as will surely be evident in two shows. One is at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Washington, Feb. 16-July 27; the other at the adjoining Freer Gallery, April 27-Oct. 12. Much of the Freer's work is from the collection of Wang Fangyu (1913-97), himself a notable artist and scholar who "rediscovered" Bada Shanren. (202-357-2700) www.asia.si.edu

'CONVERSION TO MODERNISM: THE EARLY WORKS OF MAN RAY" -- May Ray was Emmanuel Rudnitsky from New Jersey before becoming a multitasking member of the Dada movements in New York and Europe. This show explores his local roots with paintings, photographs and works on paper. Montclair Art Museum, New Jersey. Feb. 16-Aug. 3. (973-746-5555) www.montclairartmuseum.org. Traveling to the Georgia Museum of Art, Athens, Sept. 20-Nov. 30, 2003 and the Terra Museum of American Art, Chicago, Jan. 23-April 4, 2004.

'ST. ADOLF-GIANT-CREATION: THE ART OF ADOLF WOLFLI' -- Wolfi (1864-1930) spent most of life in a Swiss psychiatric hospital, where he turned out streams of carefully executed and colored drawings and paintings. He was among the first figures to whom the iffy term "outsider artist" attached itself. American Folk Art Museum. Feb. 25-May 18. (212-265-1040) www.folkartmuseum.org

'BRONZEVILLE: BLACK CHICAGO IN PICTURES, 1941-43' -- The photographers Russell Lee, Edwin Rosskam, Jack Delano and John Vachon documented Chicago's South Side, one of the most important centers of African-American culture in the 20th century. The art historian Maren Stange brings more than 120 of their pictures together here. International Center of Photography. Feb. 28-June 8. (212-857-0000) www.icp.org

March

'ERNST LUDWIG KIRCHNER' -- Kirchner (1880-1938), who painted spikey-haired, sallow-skinned, protopunk figures, was a leader of early-20th-century German Expressionism. This show, organized in collaboration with the Royal Academy of Arts, London, is the first full-fledged look at him in decades. National Gallery of Art, Washington, March 2-June 1 (202-737-4215) www.nga.gov

'THE HISTORY OF JAPANESE PHOTOGRAPHY' -- Can this really be the first comprehensive United States survey of Japanese photography? Yes. It will include work by 70 artists from the 19th century to the present and was organized by the Japan Foundation in Tokyo and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, where it is on view March 2-April 27, (713-639-7300) www.mfah.org. Traveling to the Cleveland Museum of Art, May 25-July 20.

'MANET/VELAZQUEZ: THE FRENCH TASTE FOR SPANISH PAINTING' -- Thanks to a pushy little guy named Napoleon, a lot of 17th- and 18th-century painting moved from Spain to 19th-century Paris, where it had a big impact on French art. That's the theme of this show, which matches up Velazquez, Murillo, Ribera and El Greco with Delacroix, Courbet, Manet and Degas. Metropolitan Museum. March 4-June 8. (212) 535-7710 www.metmuseum.org

'THE LAST EXPRESSION: ART AND AUSCHWITZ' -- The 200 pieces here, by artists who were interned and in many cases died at Auschwitz and other concentration camps, were made for various reasons, including as documents, decorations and gestures of resistance. Retrieved from German archives, most of the work has not been seen before. Brooklyn Museum. March 7-June 15. (718-638-5000) www.brooklynmuseum.org

'IN MEDIA RES' -- Like video 30 years ago, new media technologies in art today take their share of critical abuse but are here to stay, and to flourish. Four curators, lead by Michele Thursz, will suggest ways in which sculpture, painting, photography, installation and photography have dramatically changed with the incorporation of techhnological tools. Exit Art, New York. March 8-May 31. (212-966-7745) www.exitart.org

'RAFAEL TUFINO, PINTOR DEL PUEBLO/PAINTER OF THE PEOPLE' -- Now 80, Mr. Tufino was born in Brooklyn but has spent most of his life in Puerto Rico. The paintings, prints and book illustrations seen in this career retrospective reflect his profound immersion in the island's social and political life. Museo del Barrio, New York. March 13-August. (212-831-7272) www.elmuseo.org

'LAURA OWENS' -- This Los Angeles painter's work plays with the borders between representation and abstraction and finds pictorial sources in English embroidery, Chinese landscape and her own photographs. Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. March 16-June 22. (213-621-2766) www.moca.org

'WHITENESS: A WAYWARD CONSTRUCTION' -- If this show about an ultra-loaded racial and social symbol is on the ball, it could be important. It's lineup of artists including Adrian Piper, Byron Kim, Enrique Chagoya, Jeff Koons and Gary Simmons. Laguna Art Museum, Laguna Beach, Calif. March 23-July 6. www.lagunaartmuseum.org

'FAITH HOPE AND IMPOSSIBILITY: THE ART OF PHILIP GUSTON' -- A comprehensive survey takes the painter from political work in the 1940's, through a fine-grained abstraction in the 50's and 60's, to a return to the figure in the 1970's that caused a collective art world gasp, secured his reputation and immeasurably extended his influence. Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth. March 23-June 8. (817-738-9215) www.mamfw.org. Traveling to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, June 28-Sept. 28.

'HIMALAYAS: AN AESTHETIC ADVENTURE' -- Pratapaditya Pal organizes a showcase of religious and secular works from the Himalayan countries, including Kashmir, Nepal and Tibet. Ranging from stone temple sculptures to palm-leaf paintings, there are fabulous things here, many of which have never been shown. Art Institute of Chicago. March 29-July 27. (312-443-0193) www.artic.edu

April

'SERENE BEAUTY' -- Part of the season's "Buddhism Project," the show will include 10 emerging artists who deal with conceptual aspects of Buddhism rather than Buddhist imagery. Complementary programs will include yoga workshops and Tai Chi classes. Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning. April 5-June 7. (718-658-7400) www.jcal.org

'JULIE MEHRETU' -- A young artist whose ambitious paintings combine architectural drawings, aerial view landscapes, battle plans and modernist paintings in whirlwind end-of-the-world panoramas. Walker Art Center, Minneapolis. April 6-July 6. (612-375-7622) www.walkerart.org

'LONG NGUYEN' -- Born in Vietnam, this Los Angeles-based artist recaptures in painting and sculptures the impressions of a war-ravaged childhood and an adulthood as a transplant to a strange new American world. San Jose Museum of Art in California. April 12-July 23. (408-271-6840) www.sjmusart.org

'RICHARD STANKIEWICZ' -- A father of the junk-sculpture aesthetic in the 60's has his first large museum survey. Addison Gallery of American Art, Andover, Mass. April 19-July 30. (978-749-4015) www.andover.edu/addison. Travels to the AXA Gallery, New York, Sept.-Nov. 2003; McNay Art Museum, San Antonio, Jan.-April 2004, then to Europe.

May

DIA:BEACON -- The Dia Art Foundation is opening a new museum in a revamped early-20th-century industrial building in Duchess County, some 60 miles up the Hudson River from Manhattan. It will provide a home for the first-time display of the foundation's huge and growing collection, which includes major, space-demanding works by Joseph Beuys, Hanne Darboven, Dan Flavin, Michael Heizer, Donald Judd, On Kawara, Agnes Martin, Richard Serra and Andy Warhol. Dia:Beacon, Beacon, N.Y. Opening May 2003. (212-989-5566) www.diabeacon.org

'MARIA ELENA GONZALEZ' -- This New York artist's near-abstract, Minimalist-looking work often refers to the memory of family and the idea of "home," as it will in this show of architectural floor plans. Art in General. May 3-June 28. (212-219-0473) www.artingeneral.org

JOHN CURRIN -- One of the most talked-about young painters in the business, he takes figures we think we know -- fashion models, pin-ups, art historical nudes -- and does indecorous things to them with immaculate formal control. The show will have 30 paintings, a huge number for a slow-working artist. Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago. May 3-Aug. 4. (312-280-2660) www.mcachicago.org

'JEAN-ANTOINE HOUDON (1741-1828): SCULPTOR OF THE ENGLIGHTENMENT' -- In Houdon's marble busts, the superstars of the European Enlightenment look like evolved beings who appreciated a good joke. Even George Washington, whom the artist traveled to America to meet, looks a little less glum than usual. National Gallery of Art, Washington. May 4-Sept. 7. (202-737-4215) www.nga.gov. Traveling to the Getty Museum, Los Angeles, then to Versailles in 2004.

'YUTAKA SONE' -- One of a generation of young Tokyo artists who came to international attention in the 1990's, Yutaka Sone will create a walk-in jungle; inside it will be a free-standing carved marble sculptural portrait of the city of Los Angeles, replete with well-known freeways, buildings and surrounding landscapes. Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles at the Geffen Contemporary, May 4- July 27. (213-621-2766) www.moca.org

'INFLUENCE, ANXIETY AND GRATITUDE (TOWARD AN UNDERSTANDING OF TRANSGENERATIONAL DIALOGUE AS A GIFT ECONOMY)' -- Bill Arning organizes a show on artistic influence in contemporary work, and the idea of an ongoing dialogue, admiring or critical, with the past. Jennifer Bolande, Deborah Kass, Sean Landers. Simon Leung, Sherrie Levine, Marlene McCarty, Yasumasa Morimura and Elaine Sturtevant are among the estimable participants. M.I.T. List Visual Arts Center, Cambridge, Mass. May 8-July 6. (617-253-4680) www.mit.edu/lvac

'JAMES ROSENQUIST: A RETROSPECTIVE' -- A comprehensive look at a major, still under-appreciated postwar artist will include his cinematically scaled paintings, as well as drawings, collages and sculptures from 1958 to the present. He's awesome. The show starts in Houston at two locations simultaneously: May 16-Aug. 17 at The Menil Collection (713-525-9400) www.menil.org and the Museum of Fine Arts. (713-639-7300) www.mfah.org. Traveling to the Guggenheim Museum in New York in October Oct. 17, 2003-Jan. 18, 2004.

'SOMEWHERE BETTER THAN THIS PLACE: ALTERNATIVE SOCIAL EXPERIENCE IN THE SPACES OF CONTEMPORARY ART' -- A large group show, with a roster of impressively fashionable international artists, addresses idea of art as an interactive social force. Participants include Cai Guo Qiang, Olafur Eliasson, Inigo Manglano-Ovalle, Marjetica Potrc and the matchless Patty Chang. Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati. May 23-Nov. 9. (513-345-8400) www.spiral.org

June

'CHRISTIAN MARCLAY' -- This retrospective for the Swiss-born artist and musician includes photography, video, sculpture and installation inspired by album covers, compact discs and concert reviews. U.C.L.A. Hammer Museum, in Los Angeles. June 10-September. (310-443-7000) www.hammer.ucla.edu. Earlier, at the Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami, the artist presents "The Sounds of Christmas Project," for which he has created a publically accessible archive of more than 1000 LP's of Christmas music. On four evenings, D.J.s will create live remixes of their own selections from the archive. Dec. 4-Dec. 31, 2002. (305-893-6211) www.mocanomi.org

'THE HOMO MUSEUM' -- An emerging generation of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered artists is changing the definition of all those categories, and pushing art and political activism in fresh, expansive directions. This multimedia survey will include performances and literary readings. Exit Art, New York. June 14-Aug. 30. (212-966-7745) www.exitart.org

'KAZIMIR MALEVICH: SUPREMATISM' -- will focus on the 20th-century Russian modernist who between 1915 and 1932 developed a system of utopian abstract work that was a secular equivalent of religious painting, meant to be universally comprehensible and spiritually edifying. The Guggenheim is a natural site to show this work. Guggenheim Museum, June 17-Sept. 10. (212) 423-3500 www.guggenheim.org. Traveling to the Menil Collection, Houston in October 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Ochre and Black" (1962), left, from "Adolph Gottlieb" at the Jewish Museum, opening Oct. 11. A detail of "Green Dancers," circa 1885, below, from "Degas and the Dance," opening Oct. 20 at the Detroit Institute of Arts. (Adolph and Esther Gottlieb Foundation/Licensed by VAGA, New York); (Private Collection, Chicago)(pg. 84); Cristofano Allori's "Judith With the Head of Holofernes" is in "The Art of Late Renaissance Florence," opening Nov. 9 in Chicago. (Paolo Nannoni, Firenze/Palazzo Pitti, Gallerie Palatina)(pg. 86); An 1846 print from "First Photographs: William Henry Fox Talbot" at the International Center of Photography, opening Dec. 13. (Fox Talbot Museum, Lacock Abbey Collection, Wiltshire, England); "Down East Young Blades," from "Marsden Hartley: American Modernist" at the Wadsworth Atheneum, opening Jan. 17. (Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art)(pg. 88); "Holy St. Adolf Tower," from "The Art of Adolf Wolfli" at the American Folk Art Museum in February. (American Folk Art Museum)(pg. 92) Drawing (Patrick McDonnell)(pg. 84)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); HISTORY (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (75%); PORNOGRAPHY (70%); RELIGION (70%); WRITERS (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%) ART 

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%); WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); MAINE, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (90%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 



200 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 13128 words

HEADLINE: The Height of Ambition 

BYLINE:  By James Glanz and Eric Lipton; James Glanz is a science reporter for The Times. Eric Lipton is a metropolitan reporter for The Times. Since Sept. 11, they have been investigating the attack on the World Trade Center and its aftermath.

 BODY:
Guy Tozzoli guided his black Mercedes sedan past a jumble of swaybacked old warehouses and manicured condominium developments on the back streets of Hoboken, N.J., winding his way toward the Holland Tunnel. Over the years he had figured out how to cut to the front of the 10-block line of traffic in front of the tunnel, shaving a few minutes off his journey to Lower Manhattan from his home in Bergen County. Tozzoli firmly believed that there was a work-around for every problem; his daily commute was no exception. His shortcut took him down Jersey Avenue, under a rusty train bridge and straight into the Holland Tunnel plaza near the tollbooths.
 On this particular September morning, as he passed under the train bridge, Tozzoli was a bit behind schedule. He had just wrapped up several calls from his car phone to business colleagues in Hong Kong and Paris; 15 more minutes, and he would be sitting in his 77th-floor office in the north tower of the World Trade Center, looking out toward Midtown. 
 Every morning more than 40,000 men and women went to work in the trade center, but only one of them -- Guy Tozzoli -- could say that he had created it. From the conception of the trade center in the early 1960's to the completion of the twin towers in 1973, Tozzoli led the team of dreamers, planners, architects and builders who overcame countless obstacles to construct the tallest buildings on earth. Sometimes it seemed as if Tozzoli, the director of the project for the Port of New York Authority, had personally willed the towers into existence -- outfoxing enemies, bullying colleagues, maneuvering around one intractable problem after another. As construction delays mounted and his impatience grew, he imposed on his staff what he called Tozzoli's Rules, a set of inflexible and often idiosyncratic dicta designed to help him beat the clock and the odds, including one that decreed that no meeting should last longer than 17 minutes.
When the towers were finally completed, Tozzoli moved into an office there himself, and once he got there, he never left. In the four decades that had passed since the Port Authority's executive director, Austin J. Tobin, first mentioned to him the preliminary plans for a World Trade Center, Tozzoli had never been away from the plot of land on Manhattan's West Side for more than a few weeks. And in all that time, one of the most beautiful moments for him each morning was his first view of the towers across the Hudson.
But on this particular morning, as he made the turn off Jersey Avenue, his eyes were confronted with an incomprehensible sight. Waves of thick, oily smoke were billowing from a gash in the north tower, not far above his office. Tozzoli lurched to a stop and found himself stuck in a motionless mass of cars. He stepped out of his Mercedes and stood among dozens of other stupefied commuters, all staring helplessly at the smoke and flames in the distance. "It's going to take us a long time to fix that," Tozzoli said, his voice as scratchy as a washboard, to the clot of people around him. No one answered.
Then he heard the scream of the second plane gunning its engine past the Statue of Liberty, and he watched it bank toward the south tower. An orange billow of flame exploded from the point of impact. Chunks of steel, shards of fuselage and landing gear and a blizzard of paper burst from the side of the tower. As chaos and panic erupted around him, Tozzoli got back in his car and worked his way into the stream of ambulances and squad cars entering the tunnel. In 1993, he guided people down a dark exit stairway after a terrorist bomb exploded in the basement of the trade center. He knew he had to do something this time too.
On the Manhattan side, a uniformed policeman stopped him and ordered him to turn around. Tozzoli pulled out his credentials. "Listen, I built that place," he said, pointing at the burning towers. "I've got to get down there to help."
The policeman's reply was curt. "I don't care if you're the pope," he said. "You turn this car around."
For the first time in the trade center's history, there was nothing Guy Tozzoli could do to fix things. From the instant the south tower spit out its burning plume, like a great flamethrower over Manhattan, everything he had pieced together and nurtured was doomed to come horrifyingly undone. 
Tozzoli and the towers' other creators -- most of them as innovative and as hardheaded as he was -- had over the decades made dozens of decisions, small and large, many now half-forgotten, that had suddenly become matters of life and death. When they determined the enormous size for the trade center, when they shaped it into an icon of international financial prowess and -- most important -- when they drew the blueprints for its construction, they had unwittingly written the script for its eventual destruction. Why did the towers initially withstand the impacts of jetliners without tipping over like felled oaks but then collapse, about an hour later, in two deadly implosions? Why did most of the people below the impact zones escape and live, while nearly all those above were trapped and died? The answers are deeply buried, like clues beneath the rubble, in the trade center's history.
The destruction of the twin towers erased, first and most tragically, some 2,800 lives. But a year after the nation began mourning those lives, something else is being mourned: the towers themselves. They were the biggest and brashest icons that New York has ever produced -- physically magnificent, intimately familiar structures. Their builders were possessed of a determination that sometimes crossed the line into hubris: they refused to admit defeat before any problem that natural forces, economics or politics could throw in their way.
The talisman that the builders brandished, again and again, to counter their opponents was the technological optimism of the early space age. The project's architects and engineers used brand-new, untested technologies to raise an unprecedented amount of real estate into the sky. They created a pair of lightweight, almost willowy structures that, they said, would nonetheless be able to withstand hurricane-force winds and other natural cataclysms -- as well as fire, explosion or even, they assured prospective tenants, the impact of a jetliner.
Even before they were built, though, critics derided the Buck Rogers quality of the towers, noting that new technologies and new architectural paradigms often bring new vulnerabilities. Ada Louise Huxtable, then the architecture critic at The New York Times, publicly aired her doubts in 1966. "Who's afraid of the big, bad buildings?" she wrote. "Everyone, because there are so many things about gigantism that we just don't know. The gamble of triumph or tragedy at this scale -- and ultimately it is a gamble -- demands an extraordinary payoff. The trade-center towers could be the start of a new skyscraper age or the biggest tombstones in the world."
In the end, they were both. 

TWO
From its inception, the World Trade Center was sustained by the mysterious but undeniable power of bigness -- extreme, overwhelming, irresistible bigness. Its story begins on Oct. 31, 1955, with a meeting between two supremely powerful New Yorkers. David Rockefeller, the 40-year-old grandson of America's first billionaire and a vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank, invited Robert Moses, New York's public-works czar, for a lunchtime chat in the executive dining room of the bank's headquarters near Wall Street. Rockefeller was working on a big project -- or what he thought was a big project -- the construction of what would become the sixth-tallest office tower in the world, a building that would serve as the new headquarters for Chase Manhattan. But Rockefeller needed a favor. In order to build the new headquarters downtown, he needed Moses to rub out a narrow blocklong street to allow Chase to squeeze the enormous building into Lower Manhattan's tight patchwork of pre-Revolutionary streets.
Not a problem, Moses told Rockefeller; he would do it. But Moses, 66, who had spent his career building an asphalt-and-steel web of highways and bridges across the state, imposed one condition: think bigger. "You'll be wasting your money unless others follow suit," Moses told Rockefeller. "His point," Rockefeller recalled in a recent conversation, "was that unless we got others to see that there was a future in Lower Manhattan, they would have moved out before we finished the building."
Moses had a good reason for his appeal to bigness. Since British invaders built the Great Dock near the foot of Broad Street in 1676, Lower Manhattan had been the land of giants. But the port was now rotting and increasingly obsolete, and the downtown area had been crippled by the financial crash of 1929, the development of giant shipping facilities that Manhattan couldn't accommodate and a flight of businesses to Midtown. The northward shift of the city's financial center had created a new crop of titanic high-rises in the middle of the island. The Chrysler, Graybar and Lincoln buildings all emerged around Grand Central Terminal in the 1920's and 30's, and the Empire State Building, opened in 1931, now towered above the city's first skyscrapers downtown.
Big thinking was not a foreign concept to the Rockefeller family. In New York, they had long acted as a rough equivalent of the Medici family, donating the money to buy the land for the United Nations headquarters, working with Moses to build Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and creating Rockefeller Center, the city's first mega-office complex. Now David Rockefeller had a chance to give birth to something that would dwarf them all. 
In January 1960, a downtown group that Rockefeller had formed announced plans for "a World Trade Center in the heart of the Port District." The group proposed erecting five million square feet of office space -- some 115 acres of desks, filing cabinets and exhibition floors -- on a 13.5-acre site along the East River in Lower Manhattan. The scale of it fit what Rockefeller would later dub "catalytic bigness," something so oversize that it would not only keep Lower Manhattan vibrant (and Rockefeller's property values high) but also inspire other development to follow -- and thus ensure that New York remained a critical global hub for international trade.
Other players quickly appreciated the boldness of the plan. Austin Tobin, executive director of the Port of New York Authority (today called the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey), made the case in May 1960 that his agency -- until then a desperate witness, if not an actual accomplice, to the shriveling of New York's port -- should be the one to build the project. "The world today stands on the brink of a new era in international trade," Tobin said, declaring that New York and the Port Authority should lead the way. As a state-sponsored entity, the Port Authority had a powerful tool at its disposal: the ability to take ownership of land by eminent domain.
Tobin had already decided whom he wanted to oversee the project: Guy Tozzoli, who at the time was planning the 1964 New York World's Fair alongside Moses. Tozzoli, then 40, had construction in his blood -- his father was a small-time home builder in northern New Jersey -- and he shared Moses' love of megaprojects. Once Tobin gave him the job, Tozzoli would take the bigger-is-better principles he learned from Moses and apply them to the creation of the World Trade Center.
It didn't take long before the grand proclamations of Rockefeller, Tobin and Tozzoli collided with prosaic reality. Although nothing big in New York gets built without some resistance, this particular project would spark a series of messy all-out brawls. The first objection came from the State of New Jersey, which with New York finances and gives legislative approval to Port Authority projects. As soon as the Port Authority issued a detailed proposal in March 1961 for a trade center along the East River, New Jersey politicians balked. "What's in it for us?" they wanted to know. 
The Port Authority came up with a quick maneuver to make the project more attractive to New Jersey: moving the proposed trade center to the West Side, to a site occupied by the terminal for a failing commuter railroad that linked Manhattan and New Jersey. The Port Authority offered to take over the railroad -- it would become the PATH -- and New Jersey politicians were mollified. But the move came at a cost. The railroad was already operating under bankruptcy protection; by agreeing to take it over, the authority would almost certainly incur annual losses in the millions. 
There was another problem with the West Side: in its new location, the trade center would obliterate Radio Row, a crowded bazaar for cut-rate electronic gadgetry that was one of Manhattan's most vibrant shopping areas. The uproar from Radio Row was like nothing the Port Authority had ever encountered. Merchants paraded down Greenwich Street with a black-draped coffin on their shoulders. "Here Lies Mr. Small Businessman," read a placard at the foot of the coffin. "Don't Let the P.A. Bury Him."
But the Port Authority had a solution that would take care of both the railroad's looming financial losses and, with some shrewd public-relations work, the ruckus on Radio Row: get bigger still. With the help of Gov. Nelson Rockefeller, David's brother, who backed new legislation, the Port Authority vastly increased the rentable office space, bringing the total to a staggering 10 million square feet -- double what David Rockefeller originally proposed.
To most city planners, a figure like that would have sounded almost farcical. It represented, by itself, more office space than existed in all of Houston, more than in Detroit or downtown Los Angeles. A truly colossal endeavor like this would not only offer the prospect of huge real-estate profits, money that would be needed to offset losses on the commuter railroad. It would also make the Radio Row merchants look like mere obstructionists standing in the way of the inevitable march of progress. Tozzoli took to calling the goal of 10 million square feet the Program, a term -- and an idea -- that he would relentlessly hammer into the minds of the architects, engineers and bureaucrats who worked on the center.
But now that the scale of the project had grown so spectacularly, it drew the ire of a new and more potent enemy: Lawrence A. Wien, an owner of the Empire State Building and a lawyer, entrepreneur, philanthropist and baron of New York real estate. In circles of the polite and the powerful, Wien was not as easily dismissed as the Radio Row protesters. He was a confident, polished orator who seemed to dominate any room he walked into, and he turned his lush, thickly carpeted headquarters on the 48th floor of the Lincoln Building into an elegant spearhead of resistance to the trade center.
In a September 1964 letter to Gov. Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey, Wien called the Port Authority "an unconquerable Frankenstein" creating a vast, government-backed real-estate venture that would cheat the city's private developers. He rounded up virtually every major real-estate power in Midtown and created the Committee for a Reasonable World Trade Center, which took out full-page attack ads in city newspapers. By adding acres of excess office space, Wien said, the trade center would create a catastrophe in the real-estate market on a scale not seen since the Depression. Wien went further, saying that the gigantism of the trade-center project was not just economically unrealistic; it was flat-out dangerous. The center's tremendous size made it "radical and admittedly experimental," Wien's committee charged; the center could endanger thousands in the case of a fire or an explosion. Wien would ultimately suggest, in his most Cassandra-like moment, that an airplane might someday hit the World Trade Center, with disastrous consequences.
Wien instantly became Tobin's most despised opponent. The two men faced off at one City Council meeting that lasted from 10 a.m. until long after dark. In Wien's camp was everyone from Jane Jacobs, author of the recently published "Death and Life of Great American Cities," to a young Democratic leader named Edward I. Koch, who called the trade center "a conspiracy by people who think they know what is best for New York City." Tobin, shaking a clenched fist, was forced to deny that the Port Authority was a "supergovernment" unaccountable to the city and state.
Wien's voice, along with the protests from Radio Row and a growing number of legal challenges, represented a profound threat to the project. An even more potent voice joined the chorus of critics in 1966: that of Mayor John V. Lindsay, who had just been elected with a promise to stand up for the little guy against the city's back-room "power brokers." Lindsay said that the city was being shortchanged under the financial deal his predecessor, Robert F. Wagner, worked out with the Port Authority on the trade center. For a while, it looked as if the trade center might be "deader than a dead duck," as one Radio Row merchant hopefully put it.
The solution came to Guy Tozzoli one morning as he was shaving, and it was, by now, a familiar one: get even bigger. He would expand his canvas still further, he decided, far beyond even the enormous size that had so incensed Wien -- and this time the expansion would not be vertical, into the sky, but horizontal, into the river. Tozzoli proposed taking the dirt excavated from the trade-center construction site and creating a brand-new piece of Manhattan -- he would pour it into an enclosure in the Hudson River right next to where the center would be built. The complex, run by its own authority, would be called Battery Park City. Gov. Nelson Rockefeller, eager to help the trade-center project, would soon propose putting thousands of state-sponsored apartments in Battery Park City, along with yet another cluster of huge office skyscrapers.
Tobin was delighted, and he touted the new chunk of Manhattan as "the brainchild of Guy Tozzoli." Lindsay was promised millions in new fees from the development there, and his negotiator, Deputy Mayor Robert Price, finally extracted from the Port Authority an increase in payments for the original trade-center site. The city and the authority struck a tentative deal in August 1966.
The World Trade Center survived, but it emerged a behemoth. One crucial piece of its ultimate demise -- its attraction as a target -- was in place. But the trade center was still just an abstraction, an overwhelming quantity of space. What the Port Authority needed now was someone to turn Tozzoli's big number -- 10 million square feet -- into an unmistakable part of the Manhattan skyline. 

THREE
Minoru Yamasaki was sure there had been a mistake. Yamasaki, a Seattle-born architect, had designed only one high-rise office building, the 28-story Michigan Consolidated Gas tower in Detroit. His small Midwestern architectural firm had never had a single job in New York City. Now, in the spring of 1962, the Port of New York Authority had just sent him an unsolicited letter asking if he wanted to join the competition to design something called the World Trade Center, with a budget estimated at $280 million. Yamasaki, a modest man, was sure it was a typo.
"An extra zero," Yamasaki explained to his young staff members, pointing out the error to them as a lesson in the importance of precision in business correspondence. Finally, though, at the insistence of his partners, a call was put through to New York. "No, sir, this is not a mistake," a Port Authority official said, as Henry J. Guthard, then the director of operations in Yamasaki's office, remembers it. "We do have a project of that size."
Yamasaki, 49, lacked the stature, and the ego, of such internationally known Modernist architects as Mies van der Rohe and Walter Gropius. As a reserved son of Japanese immigrants growing up in Seattle, he was called a sissy by the neighborhood boys; as an adult, he was sensitive, introspective, small and delicate: he had a bony face, thin brown hair and a skinny build. Weakened by a battle with bleeding ulcers that nearly killed him in the mid-1950's, he took long trips through Asia and Europe to try to rebuild his strength, journeys that left him with an original, but somewhat conflicted, aesthetic sensibility. He was a Modernist, enamored like many of his contemporaries with the sleek new materials and minimalist techniques that defined van der Rohe's "less is more" philosophy of skyscrapers. But he had also fallen in love with the romantic, rhythmic arches on the Doge's Palace in the Piazza San Marco in Venice, the curves and vista of the Taj Mahal and the austere elegance of traditional Japanese gardens.
Tozzoli had seen a hint of Yamasaki's aesthetic journey even before he met the architect. On a visit to the 1962 Seattle World's Fair, Tozzoli walked through the Federal Science Pavilion, which Yamasaki had designed. It featured a contemplative arrangement of interconnected low-rise buildings and a collection of Gothic arches and colonnades, all set around a central courtyard with pools, fountains and flowers. When Tozzoli went to Detroit to interview Yamasaki, the two men met at the architect's Consolidated Gas tower, whose exterior was defined by a series of white marble columns and narrow windows that ran floor to ceiling. The design forced the eye straight up toward the sky, evoking, as Yamasaki explained it, the transcendental aspirations of a medieval cathedral. Tozzoli, for all his uncompromising focus on the practical, could not help being impressed by these compositions. "This was a guy who really was building more than just space," Tozzoli recalls.
Yamasaki's formal proposal argued that his previous work made him uniquely qualified to find "a beautiful solution of form and silhouette which fits well into Lower Manhattan." But there were other, more practical, considerations that helped the mild-mannered Yamasaki edge out his competition, which included I.M. Pei, Philip Johnson and Gropius. Tozzoli and his evaluation team were not looking for an obstinate aesthete who would try to dictate the terms of the project. The Port Authority -- meaning Tozzoli -- would be calling the shots. Above all else, the winner of this architectural contest would have to follow Tozzoli's nonnegotiable Program.
Yamasaki's official selection, made in August, was marked with a pizza-and-beer party back at his Birmingham, Mich., office. His team of 20 architects and model makers now had to find a way to wrap Tozzoli's 10 million square feet in a package that, as David Rockefeller and Austin Tobin conceived it, would telegraph to the world the economic might and pre-eminence of New York.
Yamasaki started off by canvassing the grid of Radio Row streets: Greenwich, Cortlandt, Vesey, West Broadway, Church, Liberty, Dey. He strolled past the grand Hudson Terminal buildings, turn-of-the-century twin towers that had themselves once been the largest office buildings in the world. He felt little sympathy for those buildings, or for the many others that his project would soon raze. Nostalgic radio buffs might bemoan the loss of the legendary district, but Yamasaki was unmoved. "It was quite a blighted section, with radio and electronic shops in old structures, clothing stores, bars and many other businesses that could be relocated without much anguish," he later wrote. Yamasaki's verdict on Radio Row: "There was not a single building worth saving."
Repeated walks around the Empire State Building helped determine another basic choice. It was the tallest building in the world. But when you strolled the sidewalks near its base, Yamasaki noted, you could almost miss it. The trade center would be different. "There was a wish and a need to be able to stand back from it, to see and comprehend its height," Yamasaki wrote. These prerequisites -- which happened to coincide exactly with the Port Authority's wishes -- dictated that the project had to start with a vast empty lot, the interior streets eliminated, and that the building or buildings would rise from a broad, open plaza. But the question of how many buildings, where they would be placed, what they would look like and how tall they would be -- that all still needed to be decided. So Yamasaki's staff built a 10-foot-long dark gray mock-up of Lower Manhattan displaying everything from City Hall to the Battery, right down to the miniature freighters and tugboats on the Hudson. 
Almost exactly four decades later, the same technique is being used to decide again what to build on this boxed-in Lower Manhattan lot. A new generation of architects, shuffling a set of eerily familiar models, is wrestling once more with the complex question of what fits and what does not on this riverside plot. In 2002, the vox populi is emerging as the arbiter, forcing the Port Authority to revise early and resoundingly disliked compositions. But back in 1962, it was a much smaller set of critics -- Tozzoli and his staff -- who kept exceptionally close tabs on the progression of Yamasaki's initial work. 
Yamasaki's team would circle the scale model, trying out one arrangement after another. His staff would lower each trade-center model into place, and Yamasaki, hands on his hips, would walk around the miniature version of Lower Manhattan like a wary Gulliver. Someone would snap a few pictures to present to the Port Authority, and then an assistant would grab the model, lift it away and replace it with the next candidate. 
There was a triplet of slim towers, slightly staggered, reaching just above the height of the nearby Woolworth Building. Next came a cluster of four towers erected face to face in a tight square. Then two long, thick, slablike buildings, running parallel to the shoreline and enclosing, like hedgerows, a modest-size duo of towers. There was even a single, monstrous, bulky tower on a huge raised pedestal that perhaps represented the ultimate parking garage.
The trouble with many of the World Trade Center arrangements was obvious to Yamasaki. A single tower was just too unwieldy. The long, low slabs created a wall blocking views across Lower Manhattan. The face-to-face towers -- at one point six or even seven towers were considered -- looked too much like a housing project," Yamasaki later observed. 
On top of his own aesthetic angst, Yamasaki had to contend with constant second-guessing from New York, mostly from Tozzoli and his chief aide, Mal Levy. Tozzoli's demands would ultimately wound Yamasaki's pride so deeply that it affected the architect's already fragile health. "He would suffer and he would burn and he would smart," Henry Guthard says. "It hurt him physically." Yamasaki's answer was to push harder, to demand yet more models, to work his ideas over and over until there could be no question that what he arrived at was correct. It was an exhausting process for both the architect and his staff, who together eventually produced 105 possible arrangements for the trade-center site.
It was while looking over the model, standing on the imaginary Hudson River, that Yamasaki first saw a vision of his final design. Two tall but slender towers, framed by a collection of boxy low-rises, would stand out boldly in a plaza. They should be between 80 and 90 floors high, Yamasaki thought, and if they were positioned correctly -- at a diagonal, instead of right next to each other -- office workers in both towers could have expansive views on all sides. "Two just seemed right," says Aaron Schreier, who led Yamasaki's team. "In terms of the distribution of the mass, in terms of the elegance of the shafts, in terms of the symbolism."
The Port Authority bosses liked the look of the twin towers. But Tozzoli growled a simple question at Yamasaki: "Do they meet the Program?" The answer was not what Tozzoli wanted to hear. At Yamasaki's proposed height, the towers would contain eight million feet of commercial real estate -- two million short of the goal. 
Now it was Tozzoli's turn to shape Yamasaki's sculpture. When he took over the project, he had read a memo written two years before by the Port Authority's public-relations director, Lee Jaffe. If the authority really wanted to build an international landmark, her memo asked, why not erect the tallest building in the world? Tozzoli knew that the Port Authority had the money and the engineering know-how. So why not rub the world's nose in it? Ever since he had read Jaffe's memo, Tozzoli had liked the idea. But only now did he see that the architecture team had arrived at a composition that, without too much tinkering, could be pushed to grab this prize.
"Yama, I have to tell you something," Tozzoli recalls instructing the architect. "President Kennedy is going to put a man on the moon. You're going to figure out a way to build me the tallest buildings in the world."
Yamasaki's aesthetic compass told him that 90 stories was enough, offering the proper balance between width and height and an eye-catching but not overpowering presence above the rest of the Lower Manhattan skyscraper canopy. But Tozzoli had his architect pegged correctly. Yamasaki was not going to question his marching orders. 
Yamasaki turned to technical experts to assure him that something that high could be built, at least in principle. The engineers said they would find a way -- even if they were not sure exactly how yet -- to push higher than he had ever dreamed of going. And so Yamasaki yielded to Tozzoli and offered up the 110-story twin towers. When the final model was prepared, it was so tall that the ceiling tiles in Yamasaki's office had to be removed.
In the end, the towers were not only big; they were also unmistakable: Yamasaki lined the exterior of his creations with row upon row of precise, narrowly spaced vertical columns that became the trade center's signature motif. But in a bow to his romantic urges, he softened the effect at the base by branching the columns into Gothic arches. The buildings would earn the Port Authority, and New York, a global profile that could not be matched. And perhaps most important of all -- with two 110-story towers, each with floors an acre in size -- the Program had been met. Profits, Tozzoli figured, were all but guaranteed. 
Once the plans were released, architecture critics savaged them, describing the resulting design as "graceless" and as a "fearful instrument of urbicide" and ridiculing the touch of ornament Yamasaki had provided at the base as "General Motors Gothic." 
Yamasaki took it very hard. But Tozzoli and the Port Authority didn't care what the architectural elite thought of the design. They had made their decision. Now they had to figure out how to build towers 110 stories into the sky that wouldn't crumble under their own weight. 

FOUR
Since the first steel-reinforced skyscrapers were built in the latter part of the 19th century, these nature-defying structures had always relied for their basic support on a kind of three-dimensional cage, or grid. The grid permeated the entire building -- massive steel columns interrupting the floor space every 20 or 30 feet, no matter which direction you turned. The point was structural integrity: if one of the closely spaced steel bones failed, another would be there to take up the slack, avoiding a total collapse. In case of fire, thick sheaths of masonry -- brick, stone or terra cotta -- around the steel would protect it from the heat, even in out-of-control blazes. The Empire State Building is the apotheosis of this kind of robust, superredundant architectural engineering.
Leslie E. Robertson, the man charged with designing the guts of the twin towers, had a certain disdain for the reliable but uninspiring confines of the traditional high-rise structure. Robertson -- an intense, doe-eyed 35-year-old structural engineer in Seattle -- was a rising star, a hotshot who dismissed the entire East Coast engineering establishment as calcified, unsuited for such a wondrous assignment. Robertson had both conceptual and imaginative muscle and the mathematical prowess to back it up. And he set out to do no less than change the principles of skyscraper design that the Eastern club had written down like laws. "We were younger -- we were not burdened with all of the baggage of how buildings had been constructed in the past," Robertson says. "In a sense, we were the perfect choice." 
Robertson had a threefold problem to solve. First, he had to hold up the world's tallest buildings and make them resistant to the intense gusts of wind that blew over the harbor, while still remaining true to Yamasaki's architectural vision. Second, he had to meet the Program. Third, he had to economize wherever possible in a project whose rising costs were already being scrutinized. 
With a traditional steel-cage design, those requirements were more or less mutually exclusive. For example, the forest of masonry-encased interior columns in traditional high-rises were sturdy, but they were expensive, and they ate up tremendous amounts of rentable floor space. And it would be difficult, if not impossible, to fit Yamasaki's lithe, upsurging conception onto one of those musclebound structures.
So Robertson and the team he led chose the most extreme way out, abandoning the traditional structure altogether. He labeled the era before his team arrived "the cage of the past" -- by which he meant not just the structures he wanted to leave behind but also the older engineering minds that, he felt, were trapped by history. In recent years, other high-rise designers began to strip away the masonry that earlier builders had relied upon in favor of lighter components like glass for facades and gypsum -- the chalky wallboard often called Sheetrock -- for interior walls. But none of those designers had ever come close to the leap into lightness that Robertson was about to take.
Yamasaki's design for the facade featured an uninterrupted pattern of alternating steel pinstripe columns and narrow windows that repeated every 40 inches. It was the columns -- so narrowly spaced because Yamasaki, who had a fear of heights, wanted to feel safely confined inside his buildings -- that Robertson and his team decided to put to work in their design. The engineer's key decision was to turn those columns into the main structural elements of the entire building, using them to carry almost half the building's weight, as well as to generate all the lateral rigidity for resisting the wind. This would allow Robertson to erase most of the interior columns, creating a vast amount of wide-open, rentable space. 
Asking the perimeter columns to carry the weight was easy: just make the steel strong enough. But stiffening them against the wind was a harder task. Robertson's solution was to connect the exterior columns, 59 of them on each face of the towers, with wide steel plates called spandrels: think of people (the columns) standing in a circle and linking arms (the spandrels). Using exterior columns rather than interior ones for lateral stiffness not only increased the building's floor space; it also let Robertson reduce the total amount of structural steel in the building by at least 30 percent. The steel in the tightly spaced columns became as thin as a quarter-inch toward the top, where it had less load to carry.
Robertson had succeeded in achieving his main goals for these exotic steel trees. But in designing what would become the feathery branches of those trees -- the floors -- he pushed even further toward lightweightness and cost savings. Rather than the massive beams or heavy framings that serve as horizontal floor supports in virtually every large steel office tower, Robertson chose bar-joist trusses -- airy, weblike networks of thin steel bars and angle irons topped with corrugated decking. Those trusses, which spanned as much as 60 feet, had two critical roles: they held up the concrete floors, and they provided lateral support to the exterior columns, keeping them from buckling under the load they carried. 
According to Robertson's figures, the trusses worked as well as heavy traditional girders and beams in performing those roles under ordinary circumstances. What he did not take into account was the extraordinary conditions of an intense, violent fire. Girders and beams would be far superior under those circumstances. Thin steel elements heat up and soften faster than thick ones. But in recent conversations, Robertson has said that architects generally handle anything dealing with fire in building projects, not engineers, so he did not think about this reduction in safety.
Robertson and the Port Authority made another choice that proved fateful decades later. They chose not to use thick masonry or cement to encase the three escape stairways in each tower but rather light sheets of gypsum. Although the gypsum was extremely resistant to fire, and less likely than masonry to crack when the building swayed in the wind, it would work only if it remained intact -- and it was much more susceptible to being shaken loose or damaged by an explosion or any other kind of unexpected impact.
There was another factor that Robertson had to take into account: the swaying motion of his buildings. The lightweight steel skeletons would not only put people unnaturally high in the air, as all skyscrapers do. They would let the buildings sway back and forth in the wind, like the biggest, leafiest trees ever planted. Heavy masonry-clad high-rises like the Empire State Building had never had to deal with this problem. For that reason, engineers had never measured how much swaying motion humans could stand before they became dizzy, seasick, frightened or disoriented. 
To answer that question, Robertson turned to an expert in human perception in Eugene, Ore. -- a spot as far removed from the New York press as he could find. Paul Hoffman, a psychologist, agreed to perform a secret series of experiments to find out just how much swaying motion was too much. Hoffman purchased a small office building in downtown Eugene and in the summer of 1965 put an ad in the local paper offering free eye checkups at a "vision research center." But it was actually an elaborate ruse: the optometrist who conducted the eye exams was one of Hoffman's employees, Paul R. Eskildsen. And as each patient stared at triangles projected on the wall, a hidden technician would trigger a giant set of hydraulics underneath the room that heaved it back and forth like a big saltshaker.
"This is a strange room," one patient said, according to Eskildsen's detailed notes. "I suppose it's because I don't have my glasses on. Is it rigged or something? It really feels funny."
Patient after patient reacted the same way -- becoming dizzy and confused soon after the eye exam began. Humans, Hoffman discovered, were much more sensitive to motion than anyone had realized. A few inches of sway over 5 or 10 seconds set off psychophysical alarm bells.
"The people who were most surprised of all were the engineering firm and the Port Authority," Hoffman says. First, Port Authority officials trooped out to Eugene. Old photos show them milling around the little optometrist's office, looking flummoxed. Then they insisted on redoing the experiments by swinging a makeshift office on cables inside one of the Lincoln Tunnel's ventilation towers on Manhattan's West Side. "It was a big packing crate, is what it was, that they had dolled up to look like an office," says Eskildsen, who traveled to New York for the new round. "I had two guys outside who pushed the room. It was hilarious." About 40 Port Authority officials rode in the contraption. The results were the same.
Wind-tunnel experiments in Fort Collins, Colo., confirmed that Robertson's initial design would sway far beyond those human tolerances, says Jack Cermak, then a professor of civil engineering and the director of the wind-tunnel laboratory at Colorado State University. Even today, Robertson has no trouble conjuring what two towers full of seasick office workers would have meant: "A billion dollars right down the tube."
So he went back to work. He had been kicking around the idea of building shock absorbers into a building, and now he went ahead and developed the idea, eventually patenting it. Called viscoelastic dampers, they were flat metal pieces, two and a half feet long, held together with a tough, rubbery glue developed by 3M. One plate would connect to an exterior column, and two others would be fixed to the underside of a steel truss. When the building swayed in the wind, the plates would slide against one another and damp the motion a little -- a shock absorber. Put 11,000 of them into each tower, as Robertson did, and they became a very good shock absorber.
The second part of Robertson's solution to the motion-sickness problem was a huge support structure called a hat truss, which would sit atop each building and tie its core to its exterior. Robertson realized that the hat truss could add stiffness to the entire building, from top to bottom, by acting as a rigid cap. He also widened the exterior columns slightly, adding further stiffness to the structure.
But Robertson still had one more set of structural calculations to perform. Lawrence Wien, who was continuing his fight against the towers, had begun to remind New Yorkers publicly of a Saturday morning in July 1945, when a B-25 bomber, lost in the fog, barreled into the 79th floor of the Empire State Building. Most of the 14 people who died were incinerated by a fireball created when the plane's fuel ignited, even though the fire was quickly contained. The following year, another plane crashed into the 72-story skyscraper at 40 Wall Street, and yet another one narrowly missed the Empire State Building, terrifying sightseers on the observation deck.
Wien and his committee charged that the twin towers, with their broader and higher tops, would represent an even greater risk of midair collision. They ran a nearly full-page ad in The Times with an artist's rendition of a commercial airliner about to ram one of the towers. "Unfortunately, we rarely recognize how serious these problems are until it's too late to do anything," the caption said.
The Port Authority was already trying to line up the thousands of tenants it would need to fill the acres of office space in the towers. Such a frightful vision could not be left unchallenged. Robertson says that he never saw the ad and was ignorant of the political battle behind it. Still, he recalls that he addressed the question of an airplane collision, if only to satisfy his engineer's curiosity. For whatever reason, Robertson took the time to calculate how well his towers would handle the impact from a Boeing 707, the largest jetliner in service at the time. He says that his calculations assumed a plane lost in a fog while searching for an airport at relatively low speed, like the B-25 bomber. He concluded that the towers would remain standing despite the force of the impact and the hole it would punch out. The new technologies he had installed after the motion experiments and wind-tunnel work had created a structure more than strong enough to withstand such a blow. 
Exactly how Robertson performed these calculations is apparently lost -- he says he cannot find a copy of the report. Several engineers who worked with him at the time, including the director of his computer department, say they have no recollection of ever seeing the study. But the Port Authority, eager to mount a counterattack against Wien, seized on the results -- and may in fact have exaggerated them. One architect working for the Port Authority issued a statement to the press, covered in a prominent article in The Times, explaining that Robertson's study proved that the towers could withstand the impact of a jetliner moving at 600 miles an hour. That was perhaps three times the speed that Robertson had considered. If Robertson saw the article in the paper, he never spoke up about the discrepancy. No one else issued a correction, and the question was answered in many people's minds: the towers were as safe as could be expected, even in the most cataclysmic of circumstances.
There were only two problems. The first, of course, was that no study of the impact of a 600-mile-an-hour plane ever existed. "That's got nothing to do with the reality of what we did," Robertson snapped when shown the Port Authority architect's statement more than three decades later.
The second problem was that no one thought to take into account the fires that would inevitably break out when the jetliner's fuel exploded, exactly as the B-25's had. And if Wien was the trade center's Cassandra, fire protection would become its Achilles' heel. 

FIVE
The helicopter pilot was sounding a distress call. It was February 1970, a year and a half into the construction of the World Trade Center, and a tugboat strike, the longest in the city's history, was starving the project of steel. Stockpiles of the lightweight steel trusses that Robertson had ordered to hold up the floors of the twin towers were running low at the construction site, and Austin Tobin's men were flying trusses in from the New Jersey rail yards with a spiffy technological novelty, a freight helicopter called a Skycrane. But the pilots were discovering just how light and wispy the trusses were.
The harbor wind had caught one 35-foot section like a sail and was dragging the freight helicopter down. Thirty-one years and six months later, when fires broke out after the jetliners struck the twin towers, trusses like this one, the feathery branches of Robertson's exotic steel trees, would be among the first structural elements to give way and precipitate collapse. But for now, the pilot had more immediate problems. 
"I'm having trouble! I'm having trouble!" the pilot radioed, according to Jack Daly, the manager of the site for Karl Koch Erecting, whose cranes hoisted the steel into place in the towers. "I can't control it -- I'm cutting it loose," the pilot said, and ditched it into the Kill Van Kull, a busy shipping channel, where it presumably still rests, somewhere deep in the silt and mud.
This wasn't the only time that high-tech innovations caused harrowing problems during construction. Fancy automated welding techniques, intended to speed up the job and save money, were an expensive failure for Koch Erecting, as they often failed to work on the huge steel legs at the very bases of the towers. Even those innovations that worked often did so only after near disasters. On the Australian-built cranes designed specially for the job -- called kangaroo cranes in part because they jacked themselves up as the towers rose -- booms crumpled, bolts anchoring the cranes to their supports blew out like musket shots and once, a 25-ton piece of steel plummeted 800 feet and tore through the basement like a meteor. The project's original budget of $280 million ballooned, eventually reaching more than $1 billion. The public pressure to keep costs down was considerable.
In the end, though, the cranes raised the towers so high that it seemed the sky would have to be torn out and lifted a smidge, like the ceiling in Yamasaki's offices in Michigan. "We all thought it was like building the Pyramids," says Charles Maikish, a young Port Authority field engineer, who later directed trade-center operations. "It was the eighth wonder of the world -- the scale of it, the size of it." About 3,500 construction workers labored on the project at any one time. When the twin towers were completed, they would contain almost 200,000 tons of steel, 44,000 windows and enough concrete to build a sidewalk from New York to Washington, D.C. 
When the job caught its stride, the buildings shot skyward, rising two or three floors every week. The steel in the central core always led the exterior walls by a few stories. The cranes, which stood in the core like praying mantises, hoisted themselves up, built another level of the steel skeleton below them and then lifted Robertson's perimeter columns into place before linking core and exterior with the lightweight trusses. 
Back when Robertson did his plane study, he overlooked the towers' resistance to fire. And now that construction was under way, the fireproofing that the Port Authority was using to protect the thin steel components only heightened the towers' vulnerability to fire. Instead of the heavy masonry that protects the steel of structures like the Empire State Building, the authority chose a newly invented lightweight, low-cost product called mineral wool, which is sprayed as a kind of slurry onto steel, where it dries and forms an insulating coating.
The idea of fireproofing is to protect a building's steel from becoming too hot and buckling if a fire breaks out. But even during construction, the spray-on material had problems staying attached to the steel of the World Trade Center. Rain would often wash the fireproofing off. When it was attached to steel that was rusty, it would flake off even without rain. The Port Authority still insists that its inspections caught the problems and that whenever fireproofing fell off, it was reapplied. But doubts about the product, which was just then coming into widespread use, never went away. It didn't help matters when it became known that the contractor charged with applying the fireproofing, Mario & DiBono Plastering, was connected to the Mafia. John Gotti was later caught on tape explaining that Louis DiBono, the company's president, had to die for the sin of disrespect. DiBono's body was found riddled with bullets in the basement parking garage of the trade center in 1990. ("He refused to come in when I called," Gotti explained on the tape.) 
Port Authority officials have defended DiBono's work -- at least when it came to applying fireproofing. But decades later, in the mid-1990's, a Port Authority engineer named Frank Lombardi discovered that the thickness of the fireproofing on the trusses would have been inadequate to protect the steel even if it had been applied perfectly. It was only half as thick as it should have been. Whoever worked out the necessary thickness had, at best, been mistaken. Lombardi's best guess is that the faulty calculations were done by someone in the World Trade Department, a euphemism for employees who reported directly to Tozzoli. But Lombardi says that he does not know for sure. 
When the north tower, the first to go up, was finally topped out on Dec. 23, 1970, it was foggy, and no one could see the view. But James Endler, the West Point grad and construction contractor who oversaw the entire job for the Port Authority, made a point of showing up at a celebration for the workers held on one of the skeletal upper floors -- the first open-air party ever to take place 1,300 feet above the street. There was a band, soda and sandwiches. But when the band played the Mexican hat dance, the construction workers started stomping in unison, and Endler -- standing next to Jack Kyle, the Port Authority's chief engineer -- began to feel odd vibrations in the structure. The floor did not seem steady. After all the wind-tunnel tests, the computer calculations, the structural innovations, had something been missed? Had the thousands upon thousands of steel parts been fitted together incorrectly? 
"Jack, how do we stop that vibration?" Endler asked.
Kyle turned to him, expressionless. "Don't play that song anymore," he advised. 

SIX
Irving R. Boody & Company, exporter of rosin and paraffin to South America and importer of fatty acids from Germany and Denmark, finished moving into Room 1163 on the 11th floor of the north tower on Dec. 16, 1970. Down one flight, in Room 1019, Export-Import Services was setting up its freight-forwarding and custom-house-brokerage business. It was opening day, but there was no ribbon cutting, no speeches. Just the sound of riveting and the shouts of men still working to complete the towers as a secretary hung pictures on the wall and a trader reviewed invoices at his new desk. Construction workers were everywhere. "Don't get hit by a hammer," Irving Boody Jr. recalls yelling.
The World Trade Center was finally coming to life. But the twin mountains emerging on the Hudson shoreline were so grand -- so almost supernaturally giant -- that the master builders could not control the daily twists and turns.
To start with, the delays caused by strikes by the tugboat crews and elevator constructors meant that very little space was ready at the end of 1970. Irving R. Boody and Export-Import were both the beginning and the end of the opening-day tenant list: 30 employees occupying less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the trade center's promised 10 million square feet. And these pioneers had to enter this strangely empty and isolated city through a plywood tunnel, like steers going through a cattle chute.
The Port Authority's unparalleled public-relations machine did what it could to convince skeptics that the flow of international trade was suddenly being diverted once again through Lower Manhattan. But as the weeks and months progressed, it seemed as if the Port Authority had erected a "vast white elephant," as one of the authority's own commissioners put it, rather than a temple of international commerce. The economic conditions of the day certainly didn't help. The Port Authority had the bad luck to hold the dedication ceremony for the towers in April 1973, just before the OPEC oil crisis sent the global economy, and international trade, into one of its worst slumps in modern times. The trade center started life as a giant money loser, running annual deficits of $10 million to $15 million. 
Filling the empty space was not the only challenge. The Port Authority, in these early years, was hard pressed to ensure the safety of the thousands of office workers slowly moving in. Even before the towers opened, there was a series of small fires, inspiring questions from city firefighters about just how safe the buildings would be in a major fire. (As a bi-state agency, the Port Authority was exempt from city fire codes.) A midnight blaze in February 1975, which should have been merely a nuisance, turned into a debacle. The fire, set by a custodian turned arsonist, started on the 11th floor of the north tower and over three hours spread up and down into six other floors. 
The blaze exposed two major weaknesses in the center's fire-protection systems: there were no sprinklers in the building to extinguish the fire -- as was true in most high-rises of the day -- and critical fireproofing was missing, allowing burning utility wires to spread the fire between the floors. What's more, the tower's core acted like a chimney, sending great plumes of smoke upward. There was no threat that the building would collapse, but it was an early warning sign of just how unpredictable a fire in the sky could be. If it hadn't occurred in the middle of the night, Fire Commissioner John T. O'Hagan later wrote, "the rescue problem would have been tremendous."
The 1974 disaster epic "The Towering Inferno" came out just as the fear of fire in the trade center was escalating, and soon enough the comparisons started. State employees assigned to the south tower were so disturbed that they formed a team of building- and fire-code experts to put the towers under the microscope. The result was not encouraging, says Gennaro Fischetti, then a judge with the state Workers' Compensation Board, who organized the team and then turned over a list of 38 violations to the city Fire Department. 
In the spring of 1975, the chairman of the State Senate Labor Committee held a news conference in front of the trade center, calling the potential for a high-rise office-building disaster "stupefying beyond description" and charging that fire posed a "clear and potential danger" to the tens of thousands of people taking up residence in the World Trade Center. 
Recognizing that it had both a public-relations and a potential public-safety problem on its hands, the Port Authority moved to address the inferno fears. At first its engineers tried to figure out a way to use air pressure to keep smoke from accumulating in stairwells, so at least they would be clear in a fire. But they found that the system would not work in the trade center, partly because there were just too many doors that could be opened, releasing air pressure. So they decided that sprinklers would be needed, a job, one official joked, that would "eat up every mile of copper pipe east of the Mississippi." They were installed slowly, over a period of more than a decade, at a cost of $45 million. Yet in 2001, on the day they were put to the ultimate test, they were completely disabled.
As the Port Authority was struggling to ease the public's concerns about fire, a different and more terrifying specter arrived without warning, from the direction of the Statue of Liberty. Late on the night of Feb. 20, 1981, an Aerolineas Argentinas Boeing 707, flying in the clouds on its way to Kennedy Airport, improperly descended to an altitude lower than the tip of the north tower's television mast -- and on a course straight for the tower. The 58 passengers and crew members were less than 90 seconds from the towers when an altitude radar alarm sounded in the air-traffic-control facility. "Argentine 342!" the air-traffic controller said frantically. "Climb! Climb immediately!" It was such a close call that the controller on duty went out on traumatic-injury leave.
But, somehow, in the midst of these frightening episodes and continuing money troubles, a turnaround took place. It is hard to pinpoint the exact moment or cause, but the most outsize giant in a city of superlatives gradually began to seem more human in scale. Philippe Petit certainly helped start that process. His high-wire walk between the buildings one morning in August 1974 proved to the world that a slender 24-year-old man in black tights and ballet shoes could stand taller than the towers themselves.
Owen Quinn, a Queens skydiver, parachuted from the north-tower roof. George Willig, a toymaker outfitted with nylon rope and metal clamps, pulled himself up the south tower's face, along the window-washing tracks, as crowds watched from below. Each new stunt seemed to bring the buildings closer to human proportions. And when the observation deck opened atop the south tower in 1975, tourists and locals alike were able to get the ultimate bird's-eye view of the metropolis 1,377 feet below. 
This access to the sky softened the towers' haughty air. But it was the gradual financial success of the complex -- and its rise as a center of money and commerce -- that finally brought it respect worldwide. Banks, insurance companies and Wall Street firms were drawn to the trade center, allowing the Port Authority to double, triple and then more than quadruple rents. The trade center turned its first profit in 1981, and Tozzoli was at last able to declare, "For all practical purposes, we are full." The last piece of the project, the 47-story tower at 7 World Trade Center, started going up in 1984. Tozzoli's brainchild, Battery Park City, bloomed next door. TriBeCa flourished. David Rockefeller's dream of reviving Lower Manhattan had certainly come true -- in large part because of the trade center's presence. 
Even in the midst of the trade center's success, life there was never without an undercurrent of apprehension. Whenever the gusts would get going, despite Robertson's shock absorbers, the towers would sway back and forth. On especially windy days -- as the steel creaked like a ship at sea, the elevator cables slapping against each building's core -- there was nervous laughter among the tenants near the top. People hung makeshift pendulums from their ceilings to watch the motion. 
There were constant reminders of how unnaturally high the thousands of office workers climbed each day -- elevators went haywire, briefly going into free fall or overshooting a floor, even causing broken bones and lacerations. Some people refused to go near windows; others simply disliked the lengthy transit from their desks to the ground. And for many who worked there, the thought of a disaster still lingered. "I would liken it to living in the earthquake zone in California," recalls Lawrence Huntington, the retired president of Fiduciary Trust, which lost 87 employees on Sept. 11. "Intellectually, you know someday a serious earthquake might come right under your living room. But you keep on going ahead with your life."
True terror would not come until Feb. 26, 1993, at 12:17 p.m. Frank Lombardi, the Port Authority engineer, was in an elevator with eight other passengers when suddenly the car lurched to a halt and soon after went dark. As black soot and smoke seeped into the elevator, Lombardi and his fellow passengers forced open the doors and then spent four hours, with the sharp edges of keys and the door from the elevator's electrical panel, carving a hole through the adjacent wall, using tiny lights on their beepers to guide their work.
Even for those not stuck in elevators, the trip out of the buildings that day was often tortuous. The emergency exits filled with smoke within minutes -- the cores of both towers acted like chimneys, just as in the 1975 fire -- so when the lights went out, thousands of office workers had to feel their way down the stairwells, choking in the total darkness. Tozzoli, who was in one of those pitch-black stairwells, guided groups of terrified tenants down to safety, counting out loud from 1 to 10 for the number of steps between each landing.
When the smoke cleared, authorities were able to ascertain what had happened. Now that the twin towers had achieved a financial stature that matched their height, now that they had become a symbol of global capitalism and American power, they had become a terrorist target. An estimated 1,000 pounds of explosives, packed into a yellow Ryder van parked two levels below ground, had blasted open a crater half the size of a football field. Six people were killed in the blast.
Lombardi, along with many others from the Port Authority who had been caught in the attack, approached the mission to repair and upgrade the towers with particular zeal. They reinforced damaged structures, applied glow-in-the-dark paint to the exit stairwells, added backup power to the emergency lights and devised an air-pressure system to keep smoke out of the buildings' cores. Then in 1995, when Lombardi discovered that the fireproofing on the floor trusses was only half as thick as it should have been, he set about trying to fix the problem, though somewhat randomly: he ordered crews to apply new fireproofing each time renovations resulted in the opening up of the ceilings. 
As the 1990's came to a close, rents were going way up yet again, and all but about 4 percent of the trade center was occupied. The center was generating about $30 million a yearin profits.
It was a fundamentally different population than what Rockefeller, Tobin and Tozzoli had advertised: the tenants turned out to be bankers, lawyers and insurance firms, by and large, not importers and exporters of goods. Still, it had become a place that reconnected Lower Manhattan to the global economy; a place that expressed the global reach of New York and the United States. The towers seemed invulnerable. 
Or at least that was the line offered in public. In private, Lombardi remained worried about terrorism. "After '93, I knew that somehow, some way, they were going to come back," he says. He read a Tom Clancy book called "Debt of Honor," in which a plane is crashed into the Capitol in Washington, and he couldn't get the image out of his mind. At a regional disaster drill, he jokingly asked the Port Authority's security expert if he had consulted with Clancy. And at night, Lombardi had terrifying dreams, including one in which a terrorist fired a shoulder-mounted missile at the towers.

SEVEN
Some days the Lower Manhattan skyline appeared with such perfect clarity, the contours of the buildings so stark, that the view from the Hudson suggested abstract sculpture carved from the blues of the water and the sky rather than from a pounding, shouting, honking metropolis. Almost as if looking at one of Yamasaki's models, the eye rose from the Battery at the southern tip of the island, passed through the stone canyons of Wall Street, stepped up to Rockefeller's slablike steel-and-glass Chase Manhattan Bank building, swung around the white terra-cotta parapets of the Woolworth Building and skipped across the droll skullcaps of the World Financial Center, before settling at the obvious trail head in the sky: the twin towers.
On this morning of soft breezes and flawless skies in New York, David Rockefeller was in his 56th-floor office at Rockefeller Center. Les Robertson was having dinner with colleagues in a Hong Kong restaurant. Yamasaki's project manager, Henry Guthard, was on his way to his architect's office in the Detroit suburbs. (Yamasaki died in 1986.) Guy Tozzoli was zigzagging his black Mercedes through Jersey City along his Holland Tunnel shortcut. Frank Lombardi was in his office on the 72nd floor of the north tower, getting ready for a 9 o'clock meeting. 
And traveling at nearly 500 miles an hour down the Hudson River Valley, a hijacked plane with 92 people on board was heading
toward the cultural, financial and symbolic focal point these men had created.
Tozzoli and the Port Authority had conceived an immensity based on the Program, producing the biggest and most visible object in Manhattan. Yamasaki, after his walk around the Empire State Building, decided to create something completely different, a soaring sculpture set apart on a huge plaza. Austin Tobin and David Rockefeller in the end succeeded beyond their dreams in producing a cathedral of commerce and capitalism, a symbol that now attracted both grudging respect and deep envy around the world. They had molded a place of work, entertainment and shopping -- a "city within a city" that even at this early hour had drawn some 60,000 people into its borders. Tragically, these accomplishments were exactly what enticed the terrorists and made the buildings both easier and more attractive targets. 
At a quarter to 9, American Airlines Flight 11 
passed over Upper Manhattan and headed southward. The plane banked and flashed in the sun, and in the instant before it rammed the upper reaches of the north tower, it bore an eerie, horrifyingly precise resemblance to the image in Lawrence Wien's newspaper ad, down to the direction the plane flew and the location of the impact. But the reality was far more terrifying than Wien ever imagined. And worse: a second hijacked jet was soaring across New Jersey, about 20 miles to the northwest.
The second jet, United Airlines Flight 175, was flying south with 65 people on board. It made an enormous U-turn over New Jersey and accelerated northward in the direction of Manhattan. As the plane shot past the Statue of Liberty and the Battery and Wall Street, traveling at close to 600 miles an hour, it appeared at first that it might fly right past the southeast corner of the south tower. But at the last instant its eastward wingtip canted up, and the plane banked to the west. Its nose struck the south face of the 81st floor, 70 feet from the southeast corner, the plane's 156-foot wingspan raking all the way from the 78th to the 84th floors. 
That pattern was like the cut of a knife in a most literal sense. Robertson had made the steel in the perimeter columns extraordinarily thin in the upper reaches of the towers, where they had less load to carry. As thick as four inches near the bottom of the buildings, the exterior steel tapered to only a quarter-inch in the upper stories. So, in an effect that stunned other structural engineers when they later analyzed what happened, the light aluminum of the plane's fuselage and wings simply entered the building, along with heavier parts like engines, slicing as many as 32 of the 59 columns on the south face like a machete hacking palm fronds. The soft exoskeleton and the vast interior volume of the tower allowed it effectively to ingest the Boeing jet whole, as if an elephant had disappeared through a wall.
Because the resistance was so slight, the plane did not even explode when it passed through the facade. Instead, traveling on an angling path toward the northeast corner of the building, large pieces of the plane probably soared freely across the open, column-free floors; others probably ripped through some of the lightweight trusses holding the floors up. In a kind of snowplow effect, the plane scooped up computers, carpeting, furniture and other combustible office contents and shoveled it all toward the northeast corner. Hundreds of people were killed within seconds. Parts of the plane, including an engine, pieces of landing gear and a hunk of the fuselage, blew straight through the building and out the other side, raining down and landing as far as six blocks north.
At some point, perhaps when the plane collided with the dense rectangular core filled with the building's interior structural columns, elevators and escape stairwells, perhaps a third of the plane's 10,000 gallons of jet fuel ignited, creating fireballs that blew out of the north, south and east faces of the tower. The rest of the fuel splashed across multiple floors, setting uncontrollable fires, spewed down elevator shafts and dribbled across the facades. The impact of the plane almost certainly knocked loose acres of the flimsy spray-on fireproofing, which meant that the fires were licking naked steel. 
To preserve the wide-open, uninterrupted floors integral to the Program, the stairwells had been clustered together in the core, and thus could be knocked out almost entirely with a single blow. In the north tower, all three stairwells were instantly severed or made completely impassable. Some 800 people were trapped above or just below the impact zone. 
In the south tower, two stairwells were wiped out. The third survived, but its lightweight gypsum walls were breached and shattered. An estimated 300 people at or above the impact zone survived the crash, but only 18 of them were able to find the open stairway, make their way past the gypsum debris and escape. 
The concrete-and-masonry-encased stairwells used in traditional skyscrapers might well have fended off those impacts, particularly the ricocheting lightweight aluminum parts, allowing people to descend through floors that were engulfed in fire. But the trade-center stairwells were protected by the more delicate gypsum. Running within the same stairwells were pipes carrying water for sprinklers and firefighters' hoses. Those pipes were cut. The tops of the towers went dry. 
The initial impacts, which each applied roughly 25 million pounds of force, might have toppled different buildings. As in the experiments at the phony optometrist's office in Eugene, Ore., the towers wobbled back and forth after the impacts like boats in a tempest. But just as Robertson's calculations reassured him years earlier, the towers were built to withstand much greater lateral forces from wind than the planes could ever deliver. The towers rocked back and forth half a dozen times, perhaps a few feet each way at the top. And then Robertson's strange little shock absorbers, 11,000 in each tower, helped them come to a stop, intact and still standing. 
Thousands of people in the towers and surrounding buildings lived because Robertson's structures did not topple. But even those few swaying trips back and forth damaged the unusually flexible buildings, jamming doors to elevators and escape stairways and conference rooms, and probably further ripping up the gypsum around the stairwells, helping to trap hundreds of people in and even below the impact zones.
Above each of the holes punched by the planes, Robertson's network of intersecting spandrel plates and columns acted like arches, spreading the loads to intact columns all through the buildings and preventing an immediate catastrophic collapse. Almost as if the towers were living beings trying to survive, they shifted loads from severed and damaged columns to intact ones. The process was so efficient, a federal study later showed, that columns only 20 feet from each gash were still carrying less than half the critical weight that would have ordinarily caused them to buckle. The towers stood long enough that thousands of office workers were able to escape.
In his 72nd-floor office in the north tower, Lombardi felt the room jerk to and fro. At first he thought there had been a big earthquake; then he saw the bottom edge of a fireball out of his window. He heard people screaming in an elevator, and the terror he felt in 1993 came back to him.
With the nozzle from a fire hose and a staple gun, Lombardi worked to pry open the elevator doors. Then he hustled down a stairway himself. And as he did, the fires began to spread. In the north tower, Lombardi's effort to thicken the spray-on fireproofing, begun in the mid-1990's, had been carried out on all the floors struck by the jetliner; by contrast, in the south tower, all but one of the impact floors had not been upgraded. Most of the fireproofing was probably knocked off by the impacts, according to Port Authority officials, but other experts say that the additional fireproofing in the north tower may have been able to at least retard the fire there: the conflagration in the south tower was, it appeared, the more furious of the two.
Air temperatures rose to 2,000 degrees in the hottest parts of the fires. Each tower's fire was producing heat equivalent to the power output of a nuclear plant. Jack Daly, the construction manager who heard the helicopter pilot ditch the lightweight floor truss when it was caught in the wind that day in 1970, started to worry that part of the south tower might collapse. Daly says he thought to himself, God, they're going to lose the top. But, he says, "I never in my world, never, thought the whole thing was going to go down." 
The floor trusses, made of some of the thinnest steel in the World Trade Center, almost certainly began deforming before anything else of consequence. At first, the trusses probably expanded, bowing the exterior columns -- themselves thin and weakening in the heat -- outward in places and causing dangerous stresses. All along the eastern face of the south tower around the 80th floor, tremendous fires raged. Eventually the thin steel of the trusses became so hot in that area that they began to soften and sag, hanging like clotheslines between the exterior and core of the building. The sagging trusses tugged inward on their bolted and welded connections to the exterior columns, and those connections began to snap. Video records of the disaster show a line of dust beginning to blow out of the east face around the 80th floor as floors began to slip away from their moorings and fall one upon the other.
Once Robertson's trusses tore away, the softening exterior columns no longer had anything to keep them from buckling. It was as if two gymnasts standing toe to toe, leaning backward and clasping hands, had suddenly let go. A single column on the east face of the south tower, about 30 feet north of the southeast corner, seems to have been the first to go, according to the videos. As other columns snapped, one by one, the entire top of the building tipped in that direction and, like a tree leaning toward the notch sawed by a lumberjack, began to fall. The force of the upper stories coming down then crushed the entire tower, ripping it apart as it fell. When debris from the top hit the ground, it was moving at an estimated 120 miles an hour. The north tower followed soon after. The death toll would soar to 2,800 people -- many of them," a devastated Robertson would write, "snuffed out by the collapse of structures designed by me."
Before Sept. 11, Robertson always had an answer for every problem he faced. In conversations after the disaster, he often stammered into silence when trying to explain his feelings about the collapses. Later, he struggled to express himself. "The responsibility for the design ultimately rested with me," Robertson said. "And I have to ask myself, Should I have made the project more stalwart? And in retrospect, the only answer you can come up with is, Yes, you should have."
But in other conversations, he became resolute, even defensive. If not for the faraway look in his eyes and the bags underneath them, he could have been the young engineering gunslinger he once was. "I don't feel blame for not having made it more stalwart than it was," he said. "I don't want to sound egotistical, but maybe it was as good as anyone would have made it, or maybe better than others would have made it. And a lot of that was associated with energy and youth and all that kind of thing. Had it not been me, I think it would have been an older, slower, more accepting kind of person than I was.
"But even so," Robertson said, the doubts beginning again, "had it been more stalwart, surely 1, 2, 50, 100, 1,000 people might have gotten out. It's a big burden. I feel terrible remorse for those who died." 
As the structures weakened and collapsed that morning, David Rockefeller stood at the window of his office in Rockefeller Center, looking south at the smoke billowing over the business district he had done so much to create. He could see the Empire State Building, the old rival to the towers, in the foreground, a little to the east. When Rockefeller was a child, his family lived just a few streets north of where his office is now, and his mother commissioned a painting of the view from his bedroom window. The painting, which still hangs a few feet from where Rockefeller watched as the weakened steel lost its grip, depicts the 1930's New York skyline to the south, a jumble of lower buildings dominated by the Empire State Building to the east. On the West Side of the city, there is only a great swath of sky running the length of the island.
"There was so much smoke that we didn't really, fully understand -- the buildings literally collapsed," Rockefeller says. "You could see something drastic was happening, but it was so horrible in a way that it was almost like a dream, a bad dream." When the smoke thinned, he saw again the swath of empty sky in the west, much as it once appeared from his bedroom window. But now even the sky had been invested with a horrible meaning. History had been undone. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Builders: Les Robertson, far left, the chief engineer, with construction-team members from his firm and the Port Authority.; The Dreamers: David Rockefeller, Les Robertson and Guy Tozzoli at ground zero, July 2002.; In a 1968 ad, critics warned that the towers were so mammoth that a plane might crash into them.; Two of the 105 configurations for the trade center proposed by Yamasaki's team.; Tozzoli's Brainchild: The dirt excavated from the site would become Battery Park City.; Top: Yamasaki, second from left, and Robertson, right, in the wind tunnel. Bottom: Yamasaki, right, at the motion-sensitivity test in Oregon.; Leap Into Lightness: After the towers were completed but before many tenants moved in, Robertson went up in a helicopter at sunrise and took this photograph. (Edward Hausner, November 1969)(Leslie E. Robertson; Colorado State University; Yamasaki Associates; L. Johns/The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)) An Architect's InspirationsIn creating the World Trade Center, Minoru Yamasaki was influenced by classical and romantic forms from Europe and Japan. But he also built upon the history of the skyscraper, which had evolved from heavy buildings of masonry and steel to spare, unadorned Modernist towers. Doge's Palace, Venice, 14th-15th centuries The romantic, rhythmic Gothic columns and arches influenced Yamasaki's design.; Katsura Palace, Kyoto, Japan, 17th century Yamasaki drew on the simple vertical lines of the palace's bamboo fence.; Home Insurance Building, Chicago, 1885 First skyscraper to move beyond masonry into steel and glass / an evolution that Yamaski would build on.; Empire State Building, New York, 1931 Its surroundings were too confining for Yamasaki; he wanted his towers to stand out.; Rockefeller Center, New York, 1940 The idea of low buildings clustered around a skyscraper and plaza was reflected in the trade center's layout.; Seagram Building, New York, 1958 Mies van der Rohe's austere, lightweight tower featured a smooth facade of bronze and dark glass.; Michigan Consolidated Gas Tower, Detroit, 1963 Yamasaki's first major building. Its emphasis was on vertical columns and narrow windows.; I.B.M. Building, Seattle, 1964 A Yamasaki-Robertson collaboration. Thin, closely spaced exterior columns anticipated the twin towers' facades. (top row, from left: sean sexton collection/corbis; kiichi asano/imperial agency, kyoto; corbis bettmann; corbis. bottom row, from left: thomas airviews; ezra stoller/esto; robert j. lung & assoc.; camera craft.) The soft exoskeleton of the tower allowed it effectively to ingest the Boeing jet whole, as if an elephant had disappeared through a wall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HIJACKING (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRAINS (76%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (74%); TERRORISM (74%); AIRLINES (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES) 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: ROCKEFELLER, DAVID; MOSES, ROBERT (1888-1981); TOBIN, AUSTIN J (1903-78); TOZZOLI, GUY F; YAMASAKI, MINORU (1912-86); ROBERTSON, LESLIE E; GLANZ, JAMES; LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (59%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (89%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (71%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002 

 
